start question
Can I use Yellow Croaker for fish and chips ?
Generally any non-oily fish is fine for deep frying . A relatively meaty fish ( though not too meaty like monkfish ) with a good thick fillet is best , because this allows the batter to cook without overcooking the fish . As Yellow Croaker is not an oily fish , you should be fine to batter and deep fry it provided you have a nice thick fillet . Traditional fish and chips usually uses cod or haddock .
I have had some success with this recipe : <URL> The fish should keep for a couple of weeks once pickled , but I always tend to eat mine in the first few days .
Here 's what I do - it simulates the high direct heat and then lower , indirect to finish ( like on the real grill with multiple zones ) : Put the ' grill ' on the top rack ( make sure its not coated or non-stick , that it can take high heat ) . ( I do mean to put a pan under this to catch grease . ) Turn the oven to broil for a few minutes . Prep your chicken . Put it in the oven under the broiler for a few minutes ( I ca n't really give you a time here because it depends on thickness and other things ) , but you 're trying to promote that browning and a bit of char like the grill . * After its been in a few minutes and browned/charred somewhat , pull it out and quickly flip it and repeat . If your dish is n't fully cooked to your liking , move the item to the middle rack and turn the heat down some . Pull it out when finished and Rest the meat . Enjoy To be honest though , for indoor grilling - I usually preheat the oven to 400 , get some grill marks on a cast iron grill pan , and then finish in the oven . Its only when the volume is too much that I do the above method . Cast iron grill pan for a couple of servings has always been much less troublesome than the broiler which can bring items from tasty to ruined in record time for me . * Some people close the oven door here , some do n't - its the difference between if you just want to sear it or really start to cook it . I pretty nearly always close the door , but I 'm also the guy who always puts the lid back on the grill .
There are a couple tricks I 've learned from Cook 's Illustrated about making oven fries : Soak your cut potatoes in warm water to rinse off excess surface starch . Drain them and dry them very well ( I use a salad spinner and paper towels ) . Use a heavy duty sheet pan on the bottom rack of a hot oven to focus the heat on crisping the bottoms of the potatoes . Oil your sheet pan well , and sprinkle salt on it . This will act kind of like ball bearings under the potatoes to prevent them from sticking too hard . For the first 5-10 minutes , tightly wrap the sheet pan ( with the potatoes ) with aluminum foil . This will essentially steam the potatoes and help get a really nice creamy interior . After that , remove the foil and flip the potatoes halfway through . Make sure you use a thin metal spatula when you flip them . These techniques work well for potatoes in general , and really do turn out some fantastic spuds .
General food safety guidelines give you four hours of time between 40F and 140F ; more than that , and unsavory bacteria exceed nominally safe limits . So , there 's your safety limit . Total time counts , that is , in a bag back from the grocer for 2 hours , then in the fridge and back down to 34F and then out for 1 hour on the counter = 1 hour left until it needs to go over 140 for ten minutes ( or 165 for 1 minute ) or into your mouth . And of course , there 's the amount of time it was left on the dock , etc. etc. . That said , if you left fish in the fridge for a week , it would be mushy and bad tasting raw -- so you also must use your tastebuds and nose to see if you want to eat it raw ; food safety is n't the only concern .
Your best bet for this is xanthan gum , which is an excellent stabiliser . Whilst the distinction between ' natural ' and ' unnatural ' is fraught with difficulties , insofar as xanthan gum is a product of microbial fermentation then it is no more ' unnatural ' than alcohol or vinegar . Be careful not to use too much though ( unless , of course , you want your drink to have the texture of mucus ) , you really only want to use about 0.4 % of the volume of the liquid you 're trying to stabilise : so if you have 500ml of milk then you would use 2g of gum . Add it to your liquid and use a blender or an immersion stick to incorporate , a few pulses should do , any more than that and you 'll just incorporate air and you could just end up with an annoyingly stable foam !
The original Buffalo Wings are made with <URL> . The original recipe is simply equal parts melted butter and hot sauce . However , you truly can use just about whatever hot sauce you want in even greater ratios if you want more kick . There are also some distributors that specialize in spicy wing sauces . I recommend <URL> if you are adventurous and enjoy a very nice kick of heat .
A quick and dirty way of achieving this is to microwave them for a bit . Microwave oven powers vary , so try 10 seconds first and add time as necessary . You 'll find the right time for the right amount to bring your chips to nearly what they were prior to sitting out .
That advice is n't " wrong " and millions of people keep keep fish sauce in a cabinet for decades . Regarding safety , it 's generally OK to store fish sauce at room temperature for years , but that is n't recommended by government worrywarts for best quality . <URL> . Pathogens run in fear faced with this stuff , but it can ( rarely ) develop " offness " . It is conservative to even bring up this article from <URL> : The fish-sauce-making process is carefully controlled to prevent the growth of dangerous bacteria . First , whole , tiny fish ( predominantly anchovies ) are combined with salt in roughly a three-to-one ratio . The mixture is then tossed into either concrete or wooden tanks . Enzymes contained within the cells of the fish flesh degrade the proteins , fats , and other molecules into amino acids ( compounds responsible for the deeply savory flavor in fish sauce ) , eventually liquifying the solid tissue . The salt accelerates this process , known as protein hydrolysis , by causing the fish cells to open up , which releases the enzymes . The briny conditions in the tank keep most microbes and all pathogens at bay , but some harmless , extremely salt-tolerant bacteria , known as halophilic bacteria , survive . These occur naturally in the guts , mouth , and skin of the decomposing anchovies . They too break down the fish proteins , yielding various acids , alcohols , and nitrogen compounds that give fish sauce its characteristic cheesy , meaty flavors . But by the end of fish sauce 's six - to twelve-month fermentation period , the salt has managed to kill even the hardiest halophilic bacteria . At this point , the clear , amber liquid in the tanks is filtered , and any sediment is discarded . The fermentation process does such a good job of killing off bacteria that no pasteurization is required . There is no legal requirement in the U.S. for fish sauce to bear an expiration date , but most manufacturers put dates on the label anyway , since people are more inclined to trust foods that tell us when they should be discarded . These dates tend to be three to four years from the date of manufacture , which is actually on the conservative side in light of industry guidelines . The Handbook of Indigenous Fermented Foods in the ASCA Countries ( published by the Association for Science Cooperation in Asia , a science-policy organization ) ascribes to the condiment a shelf life of five years . This is is n't to say fish sauce will always be good , either before or after the use-by date ( though you should always refrigerate it after opening ) . It can deteriorate in quality over an extended period of time due to chemical reactions , resulting in color changes or the development of " off " flavors . On rare occasions mold or yeast might develop on the inside surface or lip of the bottle where there 's excess moisture and less salt . These growths are usually innocuous , but as with any food , if it looks strange , smells strange , or tastes strange , you should throw it out . So , grudgingly , I say throw this batch out 'cause it 's fuzzy . But do n't lose any sleep over it . Next time buy a bottle that you 're likely to use within a couple of years and keep it in the fridge after opening .
There are many cultivars of rhubarb , just like there are for most other vegetables . Surprisingly , it seems some cultivars with the best flavor have less of the prized pink color . The color of any particular rhubarb stalk will depend on both the cultivar , and how it was grown . You should treat it the same way , regardless of the color . So yes , green rhubarb is safe to eat , with the same caveats as apply to any rhubarb . Especially , do n't eat the leaves . In On Food and Cooking ( 2004 edition ) , Harold McGee indicates that rhubarb tends to be about 1.5-2 .0 % acid by weight ( mostly oxalic acid ) , which makes it quite tart . This is an inherent aspect of the vegetable . The only way you really will reduce it is to use proportionately less of it in your recipe , by either reducing the absolute quantity of rhubarb , or increasing the quantity of other ingredients . In pies and coblers , this is usually done by combining the the rhubarb with another fruit like strawberries , as well as a great deal of sugar . Oxalic acid is soluble in water at about 14 grams / 100 mL , and even more soluble in ethanol at about 24 g / 100 mL , <URL> . This means that anything you infuse into vodka is likely to be extremely tart , perhaps unpleasantly so . You will want to carefully control steeping times and or ratios . While I have never tried this , I would imagine the tartness would overwhelm whatever rhubarb flavor you might pick up . There might be a reason there are so few famous rhubarb cocktails . Still , there are a number of rhubarb cocktail recipes that you can find by googling " <URL> " . They tend to start with a cooked down puree of rhubarb , rather than an infusion , however , and it seems to often be used in the sour role .
You can use small amounts of cheddar mixed with the other cheeses . But you 'd be disappointed in the results if you tried to use it as the main or only cheese on the pizza . Cheddar cheese does n't tolerate sustained , high heat as well as some other cheeses . It can scorch , which tastes and smells bad , and/or the fats can separate from the solids as a yellowish oil . The sharper the cheese is , the less well it will tolerate heat .
In general places that do this with pancakes do not cut-out , but indeed use a mold or the like . The scrambled eggs would likely look fine " cut " , but part of a pancake is the edge , even if it is modified by touching the edge of the mold . So long as the mold is metal , your dollar-store purchases should be fine . You will likely need to oil/butter them in some way so that the product - batter or egg - does not stick to the metal itself . I have myself used clean old tuna tins to make round " self-contained " fried eggs for a home version of a McMuffin .
Yes . The important fat is the one the starch first goes into . The higher temperature reached by fats ( as compared to water or milk ) helps cook the flour , creating flavors . The liquid added later dilutes the mixture into a sauce . The liquid 's fats are not as crucial for the sauce 's thickness as the liquid 's proteins . I think of the cooked butter-flour mixture as a thickner that can be added to milk , broths , and even a saucy dish . The roux thickens way better than just a slurry of flour and a cold liquid . Jack Lang has written <URL> and the science is summarized in chapter 4 of <URL>
In order to store yeast for that period of time it has to be make inactive , and the process to do that yourself is challenging , time consuming , and you 'd need specialist equipment . It would be prohibitive in both time and cost , far above just buying yeast . You can of course make a starter by mixing equal amounts of flour and water plus some yeast , this will keep the yeast alive by feeding it , and you can keep it alive indefinitely by feeding it once per week . You add some of the starter to your bread and it supplies active yeast .
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
Speaking as a Brit - we are a nation of chip lovers :) Use an oil which can cope with the high temperature such as groundnut . For that proper chip experience ( * heart attack alert * ) add some beef dripping or lard . I add a small amount to give the chips a nice flavour . Whilst heating the oil regulary dip a chip in the oil . When it starts to bubble then it 's time to cook . If the oil is too cold the chips will absorb it and they 'll go soggy . ( This is easier to achieve with a traditional chip pan or I prefer a deep saucepan ) . For the perfect chip the potato variety is important but this is personal taste . Last seasons reds will make dark delicious chips but I prefer new potatoes which make a crisper lighter coloured chip . ( The potato variety also affects the colour when cooked ) . Finally , drain on kitchen paper and a sprinkle of salt .
Coat the chocolate chips in flour ( whichever type of flour goes into your cake ) . Put a few ounces or two of flour and the chocolate chips into a zip-top bag , close tightly and shake . The coated chips will then adhere and tend to " float " in the batter . Subtract the amount flour used to coat the chips from the flour otherwise used in the recipe . You could do this with cocoa powder instead of flour .
Absolutely , go ahead and use it . I always ignore the " white and light green parts " instruction anyway , and use the leek up until the point where it feels dried out instead of firm and fleshy -- well into the dark green parts -- and it 's always delicious , even when cooked for significantly less than several hours .
I like the first answer , but feel the need to clarify the ' pepperoni ' reference . Yes , they are slices of bagels . However , if you cut a bagel vertically in half as it rests flat and treat each half as if you were slicing a curved salumi , all of your chips will be inconsistently thick on one edge and thin on the other ( thanks to the properties of a torus ) . While that leaves them all consistently round , their thickness varies , which makes evenly toasting them a problem . The more conventional approach : take the whole bagel as it lies flat on the cutting board , and slice it vertically but thinly from one side to the other . There will be much more variation in chip shape , but it 's much easier to maintain the right thickness for even toasting . This is also why most ( if not all ) bags of chips are sliced in this manner , and you see such wild variation of circles , ovals , etc in chip shape . A Gildy 's Blade or a tightly serrated bread knife will do the job . Along with a bit of patience .
A meat thermometer is a device that can be left in food in the oven , the thermapop is not a meat thermometer because the plastic casing and electronic are not oven safe . If you put your thermapop in the oven and left it there you 'd destroy it . You could use it to measure air temperature outside the oven without a problem , although you 'd use up the battery quickly if you left it on constantly . The two most widely available meat thermometer types are mechanical ones which stick into the meat and have a dial you can read , and electronic ones which have a probe on a wire which goes into the meat in the oven . Either type can be used to measure oven temperature , you just put the probe in the oven without being in meat . Given how dirt cheap oven thermometers and room thermometers are these days there 's not much net gain though , you may as well invest a small amount of money in the right tool for the right job .
end question
start question
What are the major differences between yams and sweet potatoes ?
Actually , <URL> are often white , and may be purple or other colors . . In the US , what we get labeled as yams are actually sweet pototoes . ( They were similar to the african yams that people were used to , and the name stuck , sort of like how ' pepper ' is used for chilies , but they 're not even close to the same thing . ) update A <URL>
Iodine is commonly added to table salt , hence the term " Iodized " . This is purely a public health issue , much like fluoridation of water . The human body needs small quantities of Iodine for good health , and salt was the method chosen to give it to us . Just as fluoride is added to water , and Vitamin D is added to milk . It actually has nothing to do with the product , it 's just a convenient carrier . See : <URL> for more information .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
This most likely means waxy potatoes , typically white or red . In some contexts it might also mean you want small ones so that you can boil and serve them whole , but it does n't look like that 's the case here . There are two main kinds of potatoes , starchy and waxy . Starchy ones ( like russets ) cook up fluffy and dry , desirable for things like baked potatoes and fluffy mashed potatoes , but are prone to disintegrating when boiled or mixed into potato salad , and can get waterlogged from over-boiling . Waxy ones ( like most red and white potatoes ) on the other hand stay relatively firm , making them good for boiling . So " boiling potatoes " meaning " potatoes for boiling " would indicate waxy potatoes , and that 's consistent with the recipes you linked to . For aloo gobi , you want firm ones so they do n't fall apart when you mix it all up . For curries and stews , you do n't want them to get waterlogged or fall apart . Fries are much easier to handle if they 're not falling apart ! And two of the recipes even mentioned red and white potatoes .
Biologically speaking , they are actually different species , but the names are so commonly used interchangeably as to completely muddle the distinctions . For example , spot prawns are actually shrimp while ridgeback shrimp are actually prawns . Prawns have claws on three of their five pairs of legs , shrimp have claws on two of their five pairs of legs . Their gills and body shape are different too . As far as cooking them goes , they are virtually identical and interchangeable . <URL> <URL>
If your question is if we can , the answer is yes . Rapadura = brown sugar tablet . The brown sugar is very similar to panela and jaggery . The difference is the source of raw material , and the origin of the country where it is processed obtain the sugar . Jaggery is in Asia , brown sugar and panela or rapadura in many Latin American countries .
Whipped cream is whipping cream after it has been whipped . Whipping cream is just cream with at least 30 % fat content ( that would be called Light Whipping Cream in the US ) . Heavy Whipping Cream contains at least 36 % fat and up to 40 % and rarely ( in the US ) even higher . Until these creams are whipped , they are just liquid . After they are whipped , they 're fluffy . A way to know that whipped cream is " done " is that it holds " peaks " , like in the first picture . Higher fat cream will thicken more readily , and hold its structure longer . Other countries use different terms for various levels of fat in cream . <URL> Whipped Cream : Whipping cream :
This is a complex question , because there are several different ways to categorize soy sauces : COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ( Chinese and Japanese are the ones most commonly contrasted -- but as you saw in Wikipedia , there are many more ) , COLOR ( light , dark , white ) , VISCOSITY ( thin , thick , jam ) , and MANUFACTURING PROCESS ( This has the most name variation , but there are just two options : fermented or chemical . Fermented is the " real thing " and also is called naturally brewed , or slow-aged . Chemical is the quick and , as usual , inferior-tasting alternative that abbreviates a months-long process into several short , chemically-laden days . Additional names for this unfortunate approach are non-brewed , non-fermented , and artificial . To avoid this type , <URL> and avoid anything containing those non-savory corrective ingredients like corn syrup and caramel coloring . ) To muddy the waters further , add into the mix the fact that flavor is most deeply influenced by the proportion of soybeans to grains -- yet this crucial factor is not typically used directly as a categorization tool . To focus my research , I tried to find a site that felt as though the writer was speaking directly to you : one that would encourage , and not overwhelm or confuse , as you decide whether to become a soy sauce affectionado . Specifically , I wanted a resource that clearly addressed FLAVOR PROFILE and USAGE . Surprisingly , a blogger named Barbara came to rest as my # 1 recommendation : <URL> . I like the simplicity and clarity of her writing style , as well as her experiential platform ( complete with honest explanation of her biases ) . The endless comments after her post provide additional insights that might be helpful , as well . Of course , <URL> always provides wonderful more scientifically-based , yet still somehow understandable , explanations . He takes 5 full pages ( 496-500 ) in his book <URL> to discuss soy sauce in all its layered glory .
I think there 's probably a bigger difference between types of zesters than between brands . No matter what type you choose , look for one that limits how deeply you can cut into the fruit 's peel . You want to get only the colored layer , and as little of the white pith ( the bitter under-layer ) as possible . The most common kind that I 've seen -- a series of little loops at the end of a metal scraper thing ( hard to describe , I guess ) -- are too small in my estimation . They work OK , but they are usually kind of dull , so they release a lot of the oils as you use them , and it takes a long time to get a lot of zest . Some also have a second slot to allow you to cut a fat piece of zest , appropriate for a martini or the like . Even on the fine side , the zest they make is n't really very fine , and might wind up as a texture in the final dish . ( I think of these as more of a bar tool than kitchen tool , and would n't purchase one of these of any brand ) Microplane graters are quite popular for zesting , and they 're what I use the most . They do n't dig deep , and are crazy sharp so they do n't bruise/mash the zest much -- less fragrant oil on the tool , more in the dish . They also work really fast -- it takes very little time to get the zest from an entire orange . The zest produced is very fine and will disappear in most cooking applications . Because they 're sharp it 's easy to grate your fingers by accident , so they require some care in use . There are lots of styles out there , from the classic that looks almost like a wood rasp to ones that look more like a grater . I think these are great to have on hand anyway , since they 're really good with parmesan cheese and other hard items , and they 're killer for zesting . Another option is a standard vegetable peeler . These take bigger slabs of skin off , and take some practice not to cut too deep . If you do cut too deep you can use a sharp paring knife to remove the excess pith from the backside . Kind of a lot of trouble , but with practice you can get good enough that you do n't need the second step . You can get a lot of zest in a hurry this way , but the pieces are huge . You 'd either need to cut them down or only use them in a recipe where you wanted to take the pieces of peel back out before serving . Since you probably already have one of these , this is your most economical option .
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
You can not ; they are full of solanine , which is poisonous . You can use the seeds however to grow new potatoes , though they wo n't breed true to the parent . This website has some great information : <URL>
Historically , these grades were established before white cane sugar became inexpensive and common , so the " best " maple syrup was the least strong , or Grade A . Now we seek out that maple flavor on corn flapjacks or waffles , so the " best " maple syrup is Grade B. I find that the best pancakes are made with 2/3 cornmeal to 1/3 whole wheat or buckwheat flour ( or any wheat flour , really ) rather than just pancake mix . The cornmeal makes them crisp . And Grade B maple syrup , of course .
Splenda , besides giving you the runs , is very hard to bake with . My wife had gestational diabetes so we tried baking with splenda and nothing turned out right . Splenda has no nutritional value . Raw sugar is great , but it has a slightly different taste than processed sugar , similiar to brown sugar . Artificial sweetners would probalby have similar issues to splenda , but I 've never tried them outside of sweetening tea .
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
Traditional goulash is a stew/soup , usually using a cheaper cut of meat suited to slow cooking . It usually contains potatoes and other vegetables , as well as noodles . A true stroganoff consists of paprika-dusted fillet steak quickly pan fried with mushrooms and onions in a sour cream and brandy sauce . It is usually served with rice . I understand that in the US stroganoff can also refer to a stew made with similar ingredients as the traditional dish , and is served with noodles . This , coupled with the shared use of paprika , is evidently where the line blurs .
The previously accepted answer contains a good link , but not any information here on Seasoned Advice , so I thought I would write out a few things from my understanding after having developed an abiding interest in Cajun foods over the past decade . Basically , <URL> is a much broader term with a longer history . While it is perhaps inaccurate to say <URL> is a ' subset ' area and culinary style , it is more geographically - and flavor-specific than just saying Creole . The history of people and region identified as Creole ( on the American continents ) goes back a long ways , and Cajun is a more recent phenomenon . Creole can also refer to other peoples and regions other than just in the South/Central parts of North America , though such use in the United States is a distant memory . In the past century , the " Cajun " term has certainly attained an independent status as a self-identified people , region , and flavor -- the last no doubt owing to the flavor potency of their offerings . Which offerings , in my opinion , when consumed , are nearly always exquisitely enjoyable examples of perfection in the experience of food .
This just means the potato has been exposed to light and has produced chlorophyll ( the green color ) . It is most likely safe to eat , minus the green areas . Producing the chlorophyll also produces solanine , which is toxic in large quantities . Remove the green parts and do n't eat more than 4lbs . For detailed information , see this link . <URL>
Per <URL> : [ T ] here are really two distinct cuts from the diaphragm of the steer . The outside skirt steak is from the plate section , below the rib and between the brisket and flank , and usually comes with the membrane still attached , which needs to be trimmed before cooking . Inside skirt comes from the flank -- it 's narrower and thinner than the outside skirt , and comes with the membrane removed . According to the <URL> , outside skirt stake is extremely rare in the US , as much of it gets exported to Japan due to a quick in the tariffs . The outside cut is tougher , but extremely flavorful . Both are used in similar applications , if you can get them . Given that any skirt you buy is probably inside skirt , the difference is likely to be moot . In making fajitas , Kenji Alt recommends grilling it over extremely high heat , to get browning flavors on the outside , and not overcook the center . He recommends not cooking it over medium rare . A couple of pictures :
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
end question
start question
What is distilled or freeze-concentrated mead called ?
It 's called honeyjack when freeze distilled . I have n't seen any specific name for steam distilled mead , so it 's likely fine to use the same name for both products . Mead can also be distilled to a brandy or liqueur strength . A version called " honey jack " can be made by partly freezing a quantity of mead and straining the ice out of the liquid ( a process known as freeze distillation ) , in the same way that applejack is made from cider . <URL> Unfortunately there are a number of " honey brandies " and " honey liqueurs " that are simply other liquor bases with honey added for flavor and sweetness . Also , see the discussion on <URL>
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
You probably do n't even need to freeze them . Chocolate has a very long shelf life in your pantry , from 1-2 years depending on fat/milk content . You can freeze it , but it may affect the texture or appearance .
What kind of meat is it , maybe pork ? There are many kinds of pathogens in meat . One type are bacteria . They do n't die from cold temperatures ( not even freezing ) , but die from high heat . Unfortunately , heating the meat throughout so it 's hot enough to kill all bacteria will turn it into a shoesole . So , meat is cooked to slightly lower temperatures which are capable of killing most , but not all bacteria . And the surface of the meat comes into contact with the pan , so it gets much hotter than the inside . Because the surface is where the bacteria are ( they came onto the meat after it was butchered ) , they die in the hot pan . But there are other pathogens beside bacteria . One class are parasites . They also die from high heat . But they do n't sit on the surface of the meat , they were living inside the tissue of the animal before it was slaughtered . So , if you bring a contaminated steak to 55 Celsius internal temperature , but accidentally stick your thermometer in a too thin part of the meat - or do n't use a thermometer and hope that you can judge meat doneness by feel - it can happen that a parasite snuggled in the thickest part survives . And some domestic animal parasites can also use the human as a host , causing all kinds of ugly health problems . A prime examples would be trichinosis , a disease caused by a pig parasite . Parasites are rather rare in industrial food production , because there are ways to heal them in the living animal . You almost never get into contact with them , while each piece of meat you buy is teeming with disease-causing bacteria . So parasites are not in the spotlight of food safety , the typical rules are created to protect against bacteria . Given the lack of trichinosis epidemics lately , it seems to work . But if there is a high chance that you get contaminated meat , you can consider freezing the meat . Unlike bacteria , parasites die when frozen solid , and stop being a danger to you . I have n't heard of such a wave of advice in the media , it could be that there was a single high-profile case of parasite illness in your country , or that there has been a slowly growing epidemic . Or also that there always has been some danger due to the way animals are typically held ( your description of eating right away reminds me of a family slaughtering pigs they raised themselves , in which case there is no vet inspecting the meat ) , but that consumer rights groups have started a media campaign to bring the situation into public attention . Beside pork , there is high parasite risk in wild hunted game , as well as many kinds of sea food . Sheep can also carry some , but they are more likely to be in the organ meat , not the muscle ( e.g. liver flukes ) . AFAIK , beef and chicken are not typical hosts to dangerous parasites . Update : As Mischa Arefiev points out , there is a type of tapeworm which lives in beef . Freezing is effective against it too .
I have all three kinds in my freezer at this moment . Although all of mine are raw , if you usually use toasted nuts , you can toast them first , then freeze . Saves a step later when cooking .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
Sounds like sliced water chestnuts to me , especially with the name similarity .
It 's fine to freeze , no need to cook if you do n't want to ; just be sure to use it immediately after thawing . Freezing things essentially stops the clock : food will stay just as safe to eat no matter how long it 's frozen . It can deteriorate but it 's more about drying out ( freezer burn ) , taking on odors , and so on , not safety . So since it 's safe right now , it 'll be safe frozen .
The amount of tea you use wo n't affect the flavor of tea adversely ; the way you brew it will . This also depends on what kind of tea you 're making ( black , oolong , green , white , herbal ) . Greater quantities of tannins are <URL> , which makes the tea more bitter . TL ; DR : If you follow the instructions for brewing temperature and time , you should be able to more or less add as much tea as you want . Black teas are brewed with boiling water , typically for 2-3 minutes . Green , white and oolong teas are usually brewed at lower temp ( 180 F ) for 3-4 minutes , and herbal teas at just below boiling for anywhere from 4-8 minutes . I 've found that I can easily more than double the amount of tea leaves I use , brew it at the recommended temperature for the recommended time ( most tea packages should have instructions ) , and store the 2x concentrated tea in my refrigerator . Upton Tea has a <URL> for water temps and amounts . They also have <URL> for hot and cold brewing iced tea - they recommend double or tripling the leaf quantity when hot brewing , then diluting to taste . ( I buy a lot of my teas from here , and their instructions have never steered me wrong . ) If you 're looking for even more information about preparation of and descriptions / histories of different types of tea , I recommend the Harney &amp; Sons <URL> .
A lot of dairy products become watery or start to separate if they 've been frozen or defrosted : pastries with cream fillings , cream cheese , sour cream . The <URL> does not recommend that eggs or canned foods be stored frozen . Eggshells can crack easily , and even if the shells remain intact , the consistency of egg yolks makes them difficult to use for anything other than hard-boiling . Canned foods that are frozen accidentally could pose health risks , so the USDA recommends inspecting to see if the can has rusted or burst . If the can is swollen , thaw it but check to make sure it does n't look or smell off before eating . The FDA also has a <URL> ( pdf ) on which foods do n't freeze well and how long you can freeze other foods . ( Note : when there is a recommended limit on how long a food should be frozen , it indicates when the quality of the food will decrease - NOT when it will " expire " . You could theoretically freeze most foods indefinitely . ) The only other thing I would avoid freezing is any sort of raw green ( lettuce , spinach , etc. ) . Greens wilt and turn brown when you freeze them . ( If they 're cooked , they should be fine to freeze and thaw . ) EDIT : Apparently , <URL> , including pepper , cloves , garlic , green pepper , imitation vanilla , and onions , paprika and celery taste different .
Once you 've got your wet ingredients in there the timer is running . The chemical rising action only lasts a little while , and you want as much of that as possible to happen while the muffins are in the oven . If you wait past that window your muffins are n't going to rise very well , if at all , and I think you 'd definitely run into that with freezing the mixture . Even if freezing the batter would stop the chemical reaction ( which I seriously doubt ) , you would n't be able to make use of that fact . Using a conventional freezer , the cooling process is going to be fairly gradual . Your batter is going to be at an active temperature for quite a while before eventually reaching the mythical non-reactive temperature -- far longer than the chemical rising action lasts . And then as you thaw the batter you have another lengthy period where your chemical clock is ticking , long before you can get it in the oven .
I think it 's because freezing tend to dry things out . At lukewarm temperature , it 's still ' steaming ' a bit , which means evaporating liquid , so losing moist . If you can stop the drying out process at that point , the pastry wo n't be as dry as when you let it cool completely . Of course , a too high temperature can do harm to already frozen things , or would cause condensation in the package , so that there would be ice formed . This could be the reason , and therefore , the statement can be true .
Summary : think of the so-called ' soft freeze ' as an extension of your refrigerator , not of your freezer . The major things that happen to frozen foods that degrade their quality are : Expansion of ice crystals during warming and cooling cycles of the freezer , degrading the texture of the food item ( making meats , for example , exude more juice or even appear weepy ) Enzymatic or chemical changes over time . These are slowed more and more the colder the freeze . Fats become rancid due to interaction with oxygen , again slowed the colder the freeze Freezer burn , as water sublimates from the food , again exacerbated by warming and cooling cycles and the freezer , and proceeding more quickly at warmer temperatures You will note that almost everything that degrades the quality of the food items proceeds faster at warmer temperatures ( even when those relatively warmer temperatures are below freezing ) . So , in general , the colder you can keep your freezer ( within reasonable limits ) , the longer the quality life of the food products stored within it . As reported by the <URL> , food is safely stored at 0 F , -10 C. All ( relevant , before someone points out cryophiles ) bacteria are dormant at these temperatures . The <URL> indicates Most foods will maintain good quality longer if the freezer temperature is -10 to -20 ° F . At temperatures between 0 and 32 ° F , food deteriorates more rapidly . Fluctuating temperatures , such as those in self-defrosting freezers , also may damage food quality . Do not plan to store frozen foods for the maximum suggested time if your freezing unit can not maintain zero degree temperatures . The soft freeze temperature of 23 F / -5 C simply does not meet these standards , and is not useful for long term freezing . So given all of this , what is the point of the soft-freeze feature of your new refrigerator ? It is to allow you to keep food ready to use fairly quickly , as meats will not generally freeze completely solid at these borderline freezing temperatures , and are quicker to warm for preparation . It allows you to hold them for longer than you could at normal refrigerator temperatures , but not to store for the long term as in freezing to the recommended temperatures . This is in line with the information given by <URL> : The Soft-Freeze temperature helps keep meats or fish fresh longer .
Corn ( Maize ) is <URL> , and not any of the other things you mention . Even the farmers and agricultural agencies consider it a grain - it 's one of the " official grains of Canada " and regulated by the <URL> . I 'm not sure when or why it started being called a vegetable , but as far as the culinary definition goes , it has far too much sugar and starch to fall properly into that category . The typical culinary definition of a vegetable is savory , not sweet . Botanically , the kernels can be considered a type of fruit called a <URL> ( AKA a grain ) , although it 's not normally eaten as fruit ( for one thing , it 's normally cooked ) . It may accompany vegetables reasonably well , just like rice or many other grains . But it is a grain .
Freezing affects the texture of avocados rather poorly . Freezing a whole one or chunks will result in a mushy avocado on refreezing . Its not recommended apparently . <URL> , it should be washed , pureed ( not just mashed ) and frozen with a bit of lemon juice ( or other applicable acid ) to prevent browning .
You will have the best results if you prep by cutting and blanching prior to freezing . This should ensure that moisture content in the veggies does less damage over time in the freezer and improve color duration . I find it helpful to freeze vegetables separately rather than as mixes as you can always grab from multiple bags , but you ca n't unmix mixed vegetables without more work . The majority of vegetables for stir-fry ( e.g. broccoli , peas , etc ) will freeze well enough , the ones in your freezer aisle obviously freeze a bit better than others . If a vegetable has a high water content ( i.e. lettuce , which I hope you are n't stir-frying with ) that is more integral to its structure than the cellulose it is likelier to burst cell walls in freezing ; these vegetables are better to avoid .
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
There is a lot of ambiguous and misused terminology in cooking ... added to that , different countries have specific legal definitions for foodstuffs that vary from one jurisdiction to another . Gammon vs. Ham Some sources call it gammon if it is <URL> , while <URL> claim gammon differs from ham because it is cured with the belly and then detached , whereas hams are detached from the rest of the animal and then cured ( a nearly useless distinction ) ; also the words gammon , ham and bacon are sometimes used interchangeably . In the US we call it ham when it is cured , whether it is cooked or raw ; and we call it fresh ham if it is uncured ( We pretty much call anything from the hind leg of a pig ham ) . Fresh vs. Raw vs. Cooked Raw does not mean that no processing has been performed , it just means that it has n't been cooked or the proteins have n't been denatured chemically . Curing , smoking , marinating , freezing , and drying , and milling can all be performed without cooking . Generally , " Fresh " means no processing has been performed . In the US and UK , the term " fresh frozen " has gained a foothold more as a marketing term than actually providing useful information . There are a number of cured hams that are eaten raw and are safe . For example prosciutto , jamón ibérico , jamón serrano , and some country hams in the US . Most of these are dry cured and may or may not be smoked . Types of smoking . The more commonly known type , and what most people call " smoking " , is actually hot smoking . Hot smoking is what happens when the item being smoked is kept in a smoker at a temperature high enough to cook the item , usually in the 225-250 ˚F / 105-120 ˚C range . The other type of smoking is cold smoking . During cold smoking the smoker or smoking chamber does not get hot enough to cook the item being smoked , usually 100 ˚F / 38 ˚C or lower . This type of smoking used to be much more common as an added protection and flavor for cured foods as well as food that are more delicate . These include gammon/hams , fish , cheeses , bacon , and seafood . Just as many foods that were previously dry cured are now wet cured , many of these products are now produced industrially using " wet smoking " or smoke flavor additives instead of cold smoking methods . As with cold-smoked meats , some " wet smoking " yields a product that is technically raw , because its proteins have not been denatured by heat . Instead , liquid smoke or smoke flavor is added to the brine or applied as a coating before cooking . Cold smoking has had a bit of a resurgence lately with the invention of <URL> , which allow you to add smoke without the need of a <URL> .
The current most common term in English appears to be " century egg " , but it 's also been known as a thousand-year egg or hundred-year egg . It 's typically produced by aging in a solution of table salt , calcium hydroxide , and sodium carbonate , but traditional methods involved less refined versions of those chemicals wrapped in clay ( and some quantity of rice bran ) . More details in this <URL> . <URL> Image : Wikipedia/Wiki commons
Firstly - shop-bought " packet " bread will keep for several days because it contains a lot of preservatives . In his excellent book Bread Matters , Andrew Whitley claims that home-made sourdough breads with very long rises have better keeping properties than home-made bread made with baker 's yeast and short rises . This , he claims , is because the sourdough yeast cultivates a culture of friendly bacteria and an acid environment , all of which become natural preservatives . My experience seems to confirm this . Bread recipes containing egg , oil or milk tend to keep for longer than those without . As @SAJ14SAJ says , bread freezes very well . Loss of flavour in the freezer is not a commonly recognised phenomenon . One option is to slice a loaf of bread , bag it and freeze it . Take as many slices as you need at a time . It will defrost very quickly at room temperature , due to its low mass and high surface area . Another option is to make rolls , part-bake , and freeze . When you need them , take as many rolls as you need from the freezer , and place in the oven , to both defrost and complete the baking . You will get fresh baking smells and flavours from this . I suspect that home-made unleavened breads ( pita , chapati , tortilla ) , without added preservatives , will not last long out of the freezer . Their advantage is that with no rise , they are so quick to make that they can be made fresh on-demand .
end question
start question
3:1 ratio of oil : vinegar , vinaigrette -- how can I use this in soups ?
Ruhlman 's ratios are very useful for baking , where the ingredients play an important role in the physical structure of the end result and a bad ratio can result in a bad cake ( why did n't the bread rise ? , etc. ) They are OK for sauces to ensure a pleasant consistency ( and partially because of the physical constraints of emulsified sauces ) , but much less important there . In fact , I generally make bechamel with twice as much milk as he says , and get a thinner bechamel which I find much nicer than his version . There is no structural problem with it ( the way there would be if I tried to use twice the specified amount of milk in something like crepes ) . In seasoning , there is no need to consult an external ratio at all . Sure , if you find exactly this ratio tasty , use it . But you can add any amount of fat and vinegar to your soup and get a good soup ; your own taste preference is the only reliable guide there . This said , it is rather unusual to add oil as a seasoning to a soup , and most Westerners do n't add vinegar either . A soup is more nourishing when it has some fat , but it usually comes from the meat . It is also popular to sweat the onions ( and sometimes some other long-cooking vegetables like carrots ) in oil before adding the water , and the oil gets incorporated into the soup . The amount of oil in this case is judged by the onions : they should be evenly oiled , but not swim in a puddle of oil . Some acidity usually improves a soup , and if you do n't thicken with yoghurt , vinegar ( or lemon juice ) is a good choice . But most people who add it at all add pure vinegar when the soup is ready ( to the pot or individually to each plate ) , and generally just add a squirt , then taste , add again , etc. , until it tastes good to them . There is no ratio to follow . I do n't know of a tradition to add vinaigrette instead of vinegar of this point , but preparations containing vinaigrette are possible . For example , the garlic for tripe soup can be held either in pure vinegar or in a vinaigrette ( but this is less common ) , and it gets spooned together with its fluid into the soup . However , if you decide that you like to use vinaigrette as a seasoning , just go ahead . There is no point of using emulsified vinaigrette for soup ( the emulsion will break ) . If you want to avoid fat bubbles swimming on the soup , make a thickened soup , the flour should bind them . This assumes a " standard " soup , a cream soup should have no trouble absorbing a bit of oil . There is no need to use vinaigrette instead of pepper ( although again , you can do it if that is what tastes best to you ) . It is better to use both , because they enrich the taste of the soup in very different ways . The same applies to any other seasoning : no need to use a ratio , go by your own taste . Use as much pepper and salt as you like , nobody can prescribe you to like it exactly 3:1 . As for the traditional use for vinaigrette , it is a basic salad sauce . It can be used as-is , or turned into one of countless variations ( actually Ruhlman explains it and gives some interesting variants ) . But for salads , it is preferable to emulsify it ( usually with mustard ) , else it wilts the leaves . There was a Food lab article on that , but Ruhlman does n't mention it and gives almost all vinaigrette recipes without mustard ( except for the classic one , which of course has it ) .
Yes , you should refrigerate it . Once a commercially bottled dressing is exposed to the air it is contaminated . Your homemade dressing is no different , and is likely more contaminated to begin with . The bottom line is that your dressing is food -- for humans , bacteria , and mold . It might not be the most hospitable of environments , but something is bound to find a home there . This process is arrested by refrigeration . Additionally , the garlic and basil will be going through a decay process that would be delayed by refrigeration . I 'm not sure what kind of olive oil you used , but I 've never had a vinaigrette turn solid in the refrigerator . If you 're in a rush I 'd suggest submerging , or running hot water over the bottle you store it in to quickly thaw it . You 'll shorten the shelf life , but if you 're using it frequently enough ( used all in less than a month ) that should n't matter .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
A vinaigrette is not a stable emulsion so it will eventually separate - however it will stay together long enough for the salad to be immediately served and eaten . I find that pouring the oil and acid separately creates a salad with a mouthful of olive oil coating the leaves and pool of vinegar at the bottom of the plate . It 's true that the oil in a vinaigrette will eventually wilt the salad but that is why it should be added at the last minute or even after the salads have been portioned .
Phyllo dough , in particular , comes in several thicknesses , from the thinnest which is used for baklava up to horiatiko ( country ) style which is used for rustic pies . You can substitute , but there is definitely a noticeable difference and I think you 'll appreciate why a good traditional recipe calls for a specific type . Saveur has a <URL> . Also , keep in mind that although phyllo is very thin and tends to tear , in many cases a small amount of tearing is no problem . You are making multiple layers and any small imperfections will disappear . Just be sure to keep the pieces you are n't currently working with covered so they do n't dry out too fast . For wonton wrappers , they are also often available in at least two thicknesses in good Asian groceries . Again , there are traditional uses for each . When using them in a non-traditional context such as ravioli , you 'll have to decide for yourself which you prefer .
Specifically , the reason you whisk it in slowly at first is to create small drops . If you just dump the oil in fast , it will adhere to itself and make it impossible to break up into droplets dispersed in the vinegar ( or other water based liquid , such as lemon juice ) . This is the definition of an emulsion : tiny droplets of one liquid evenly dispersed in another . Once you 've got the emulsion started , you can pour in the oil a bit faster because the already suspended droplets reduce the room for a big blob of oil to form , and act sort of as " sandpaper " to break up the incoming stream as you whisk .
According to <URL> : Jaggery is not as sweet as white sugar , so when substituting white sugar for Jaggery use about 1/3 less . When swapping Jaggery in for sugar , use anywhere from 1/4 to 1/2 more Jaggery than was called for of sugar ( if you want to keep the recipe as sweet as it was . ) That meshes with my limited experience too , so if the jaggery is ground in such a way that it will measure like the sugar you are replacing , and you are replacing 1TBS of sugar , then you would want to use somewhere in the neighborhood of 1TBS plus 1tsp of jaggery . If precision is needed ( which of course does n't really apply here , but bear with me ) consider that the way jaggery and sugar measures volumetrically are unlikely to really be identical . It would be better to measure by weight , or if there is liquid in the recipe , by water displacement .
2 % ( 20g per 1000g ) would be my default recommendation based on sources local to me , but with care less salt may work if sanitation is extremely good ( to minimize introduction of undesirable bacteria which the salt helps to supress . ) On the high end , I can say that 4 % seems to slow things down , but work , and 8 % seems to be simply too much . The pictured jars are 2 % , 4 % and 8 % salt , using red cabbage , which acts as a pH indicator . The 8 % jar ( rightmost ) has not turned pink ( and is growing mold on the surface ) while the other two are successfully acidifying ( the 2 % somewhat faster than the 4 % ) and mold-free . The lids are put on " fingertip-tight " as in canning , so they form a crude but effective airlock seal ( they " burp " themselves as needed , just as in canning - they are not loosened manually to relieve pressure . ) <URL> <URL> Actually 75 % red cabbage and 25 % apples for these . And the stuff on top is some ceramic tile as improvised weights . Other than for pictures , they are kept in the dark .
Fish sauce ! I think the clam juice is probably already a substitute for fish sauce anyway , so it should make a very good substitute . ( If you look up recipes for Thai beef salad you 'll find tons of things with fish sauce , and probably not much with clam juice . ) You probably want to use less , though , maybe starting with 2-4 tablespoons , though I 've seen recipes using more . It should be fine for the dietary restriction too ; it 's just made with anchovies , not an unknown blend of seafood , but of course check the label just in case .
I was able to track down the dish . It is called Lahuhe . There is a picture of it here : <URL> Thank you to everyone for trying to help me out .
A difference I see between your recipe and other alternatives is that you do n't have any other starch besides your rice . Other recipes include a good amount of tapioca or potato starch . The other difference was that other recipes used rice flour instead of rice . You might also want to consider a change in technique . You can make rice noodles like a crepe rather than in an oiled steamer pan . Simply use a non-stick or oiled crepe pan , put in batter to crepe thickness , and let it cook until it begins to pull away from the edge of the pan . Invert and release in one motion onto a cutting board and slice .
Use lighter roast coffee : caffeine burns off as the roast darkens . All other things equal , though , the stronger the cup of coffee , the more caffeine will be in it . You are n't going to reach caffeine saturation just by brewing ( even very ) strong coffee . So brew coffee with lighter roasted beans to your maximum desired strength .
You could always blend before you strain . I find that when making soup of all kinds that a few minutes with my immersion blender does wonders for the final product . Not only does it puree all the solids into much smaller chunks , but it also makes sure that all the liquid is a homogeneous whole . After blending , I also tend to strain just to get out anything that I might have missed . I use a fine mesh strainer and a spatula to force the liquid through quickly . I also own an old flour sifter that I have used quite a few times instead of the strainer , but it does n't offer any real benefits over the other .
In general , you can roast peppers to develop a richer flavor . Then skin the pepper and you can use it for salsas , sauces , or just slice/dice it up for a sandwich .
Assuming that you do n't mind the bottom of your smaller pan getting dirty , you could put the sandwich in a heated larger pan and place the pre-heated smaller pan on top . According to your question , you 've got this this in own mental experiment . The next step would just require you to borrow from mechanical engineering and some cheap root vegetables . Mechanical designers use a widget called a standoff . It just help create a gap between two surfaces . <URL> Could n't you use the same concept with carrots ? You could just surround the sandwich with equal length ( maybe 1/4 -1 / 2 " shorter than the sandwich ) cut carrot " columns " for a carrot " tripod " of sorts . Bread will certainly cook faster than carrots and the used chunks could be edge-trimmed if they got blackened and consumed .
Unless the recipe specifies " heaping " , read spoon measurements as level . That goes for cup measurements as well . Unless the recipe specifies another method to fill your measuring spoon or cup , use yet another implement to fill the spoon or cup , then level it by scraping with a knife . That is the most precisely repeatable way to measure ( especially flour ) with a cup or spoon . The one exception to the " spooned and leveled " technique is in the measurement of brown sugar . Recipes will usually call for brown sugar to be " packed " , which is just as at sounds . Press the brown sugar into the spoon or cup to squeeze in as much as you can and still have a level top . It 's far more accurate to measure by weight but most non-professional recipes in the US are written with volumetric measurements . For baking especially , consider converting volumetric measurements to weight using sources like this : <URL> , and measuring with an accurate digital scale . Depending upon the methods used in developing the recipe , measuring by weight the first time you make a recipe may not get you any closer to the measurements the author of the recipe intends , but at least your results will be accurately repeatable and tweakable .
Absolutely , go ahead and use it . I always ignore the " white and light green parts " instruction anyway , and use the leek up until the point where it feels dried out instead of firm and fleshy -- well into the dark green parts -- and it 's always delicious , even when cooked for significantly less than several hours .
The short answer is : you ca n't . The long answer : chocolate has very complicated thermodynamics . There is an optimal speed of the cooling process , and it is slow . Chocolate should be tempered to 33 Celsius ( there is some variance depending on the cocoa content ) and cooled in an environment between 27 and 20 Celsius . Then it looks and tastes good . Chocolate which has been cooled in a cold environment will not have any shine , and the colder you get , the larger your problems will be . You can even get uneven distribution of the cocoa fat , with it pooling along the nuts on the inside and letting the outer layers unpleasantly dry . Besides , you will get condensation , which is ugly and makes the chocolate sticky to handle and watered down in the mouthfeel . In extreme cases , you may even end up with distempered chocolate , especially if you do n't have seed crystals . No matter what you are doing - truffles , chocolate dipped fruit , pure pieces of chocolate in a mould - you ca n't rush it and get good quality .
Bacon is often substituted for pancetta . While bacon is also traditionally made from pork , there are companies that produce bacon from turkey , beef , lamb , venison , elk , buffalo and even seitan . If you could find one of these bacons in your area , then you could substitute one of them for the pancetta .
This is known as " back bacon " in Canada , and when brined rather than smoked , it 's peameal bacon . Canadian bacon is , sadly , usually just some sort of processed ham product meant to resemble back bacon . It 's also known here in the US as Irish rashers or British rashers ( a rasher is the british term for a slice of the sort of bacon you 're after ) . It can also show up as simply Irish bacon or British bacon . Google any of those terms to find internet vendors .
end question
start question
How do I cook radicchio to make it taste less bitter ?
Braising gently in milk will also , I find , help with bitterness . The radicchio becomes wonderfully succulent , very nice with a firm-fleshed fish .
Caffeine is bitter , tea is n't too bitter because as you mentioned it 's only got 40mg of caffeine . If you then triple the amount in there it 's going to taste that way . Try adding 3 tea bags to your cup and I 'm certain it 'll taste just as bitter . Energy drinks have copious amounts of sweeteners added hence why they do n't taste like caffeine . If you are hell bent on more caffeine without the associated bitterness but not adding sugar maybe a sweetener like stevia would be the way forward ...
Lime juice is n't going to make it less spicy , if anything I 've found it accentuates the spiciness a bit although I 'm not sure of the mechanism . It could be that the acidity frees up more capsaicin compounds ( what makes hot food hot ) , or wakes up your taste buds more . Most likely you have simply added a weak jalapeno . Peppers of the same variety can vary in heat strength quite a bit depending on the where and how it was grown , although you 'll get weak and strong peppers from the same plant . You can make up for the lack of spice by adding more jalapeno or a bit of hot chili powder .
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
Well , looking at the recipe ... The sugar ( brown sugar + honey ) level looks roughly appropriate compared to the flour so that 's unlikely . The fat level looks a tad low for the cookies I normally do , but I 've never used oil in cookies before . You might try increasing the oil just a bit to lend extra tenderness , but I do n't think this is the real issue . ( Using oil in cookies also means you 're not <URL> , which is typically important in most cookies ... so its a bit odd , but I do n't know that it would cause them to be ' crumbly ' . ) The <URL> definitely is n't helping it to keep structural support . The recipe is basically banking on the fact that it needs to be moist to hold together . There 's not really enough liquid to form gluten to add structure ( which you do n't usually want for cookies anyway ) . Since there 's nothing in the cookie to give it ' structure ' , if you dry it out its just going to fall apart on you . I suspect your problem is from the directions of ' Do n't overbake these , or they 'll dry out a little . ' They dried out a bit too much and lost all support . It 's easy to over bake cookies and this is a recipe with very little room for error in that area .
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
Storing Tea You tea should never become bitter due to your storage methods . The only thing that should happen to tea as a result of how you store it is general loss of flavor or loss of the complexity of flavor ( in a green tea , you might lose any honey or fruit notes of a tea that has been improperly stored , but it 'll still taste like green tea ) . There are a couple of factors at play when storing tea . The first is light . Exposure to light will degrade the quality of tea , stripping it of both color and flavor . Light also sets off <URL> . So , you should store your tea in a light-blocking container ( like a typical metal tea tin ) . The next factor is air . Tea needs to be stored in a place that does not have any strong-smelling other foods or chemicals because it absorbs other odors very easily . In addition , tea absorbs moisture from the air , so it needs to be stored in a dry place . Moisture can cause several different problems with your tea : it could start binding to the tannins and make your tea taste bitter when you eventually brew it , and excess moisture could provide breeding grounds for bacteria or fungus , which would make your tea unfit for brewing at all . So , store your tea in an airtight container that blocks moisture and any other nearby odors . Vacuum sealing is not necessary , unless you want to keep a batch of tea for a long time without using it at all . I have n't found any evidence supports claims of oxidation affecting taste more than moisture or light . Different types of tea are created by oxidizing tea leaves ( white teas are the least oxidized , black teas the most , and greens and oolongs are somewhere in between ) , so oxidation is not inherently bad for tea . To sum it up : Protect your tea from the harmful effects of light , moisture , ambient odors , and air by storing it in an airtight container in a cool , dark place . If stored properly , most kinds of tea leaves should retain most of their flavor for about two years , though fresher is always better . ( Some teas , like Japanese green teas , are traditionally only stored for about 3 months . ) Brewing Tea In order to achieve the best taste , brew tea according to the processor 's instructions ( at least to start with - once you become more familiar with tea and what you like , you can adjust according to taste ) . The tea manufacturer 's want their tea to taste good , and they are experts , so you can rely on them to provide decent instructions . I 've never bought tea that did n't have instructions for brewing right on the package , but in case you find some that do n't have instructions , here are some general guidelines . I 've taken this from Upton Tea 's <URL> , and it corresponds to my own experience with making tea and chatting with tea importers / shop owners , too . Whole Leaf Teas black teas : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 3-4 minutes ; if serving with milk or lemon , steep 4-5 minutes green teas : slightly less than boiling ( 180 F ) , steep 2-3 minutes oolong teas : lighter oolongs use warm ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes white teas : less than boiling ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes herbal tisanes : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 5-8 minutes Fanning , Crushed Leaves , or Powder This is what most pre-bagged teas are , and since they have been processed to be finer , they require a shorter brewing time . ( Finer leaves means more surface area , so you get more tannins per second when brewing , compared to tea leaves in larger pieces . ) Use guidelines above , but brew for 1-1 .5 minutes less than whole leaf teas The bitter taste comes from <URL> . There are two ways for tea to become unpleasantly bitter : steeping at too high a temperature , or steeping for too long . ( It 's also possible that if your water is heavily chlorinated or otherwise impure that it could be making your tea taste bad , but that 's far less likely than improper brewing . ) If you 're making tea from loose tea leaves , using too many leaves could also make your tea bitter ; a good rule of thumb is 1 teaspoon of tea per 8 oz of water , though this can vary depending on the type of tea you 're making . Generally speaking , the longer you brew tea , the more tannins will be released and the bitterer the tea will be . If you use the times above as a starting point , you should n't get any overly bitter tea , but remember : each batch of tea is unique , and each tea drinker 's taste is different . Experiment until you find what you consider to be the perfect cup of tea . Lastly , start with good quality tea . Some tea is poorly processed and the flavor is ruined before you 've even opened the package . If you start with a high-quality tea , you 're much more likely to get good results . :)
You can give your candies hard shells by dipping them into a melted mixture of one part water , two parts sugar , and 1/2 part corn syrup . Melt those ingredients together over medium to medium-high heat until the sugar has totally dissolved and the mixture is at the hard crack stage ( 295-310 & deg ; F. / 146-154 & deg ; C. ) . Remove your pot of glaze from the heat and place it into a waiting metal bowl of ice water . Once the glaze has stopped bubbling , begin dipping your candies immediately . Once dipped , set them on an appropriate , lightly greased surface to cool ( use a flavorless oil or kitchen spray for greasing ) . You 'll want to skewer your candies to dip them ; never attempt to dip candies into hot glaze by hand . You 'll also want to set everything up for dipping before you make your glaze : have your bowl of ice water ready ; have a greased tray or marble slab/counter ready to receive your dipped candies ; have your kitchen to yourself ( distractions are n't good when working with hot glaze ) . Your glaze will cool very quickly , so work carefully but efficiently .
Type of flour : rice Liquid : soda ( seltzer ) water Mix as little as possible . Lumps are okay . Dip quickly , drop into 350 veg/soy oil .
It is very simple , you just have to heat it long enough . It can even happen by accident :) The taste is a mixture of bitter and sour , while the smell component is mostly towards something burnt . Also , your assumption " because of the uncaramelized sugar mixed in the caramel " is incorrect , or at least incomplete . There usually is such sugar , but many of the caramelization products of the early stages of caramelization also taste sweet on their own . In later stages , you get more and more nonsweet stuff until you get into the state I described ( barely liquid charcoal ) .
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
This recipe for <URL> has instructions for cleaning them . You can either cut off the heads , or if you choose to retain them : Make a shallow cut along the head , being careful not to cut too deep and puncture the innards . Carefully but firmly pull out everything inside . Cut the head off , turn it inside out and use a knife to scrape away the innards . In both cases , if a small black , triangular beak does not come out along with everything else , then push your finger up through the middle of the body and the beak should pop out . As explained in <URL> , you will want to cook octopus very briefly so it does not get rubbery , or for a long time , to move past the rubbery stage . If , as mentioned in the question , you wish to fry them , the cooking time may be <URL> . Some recipes suggest <URL> per side . For specific recipes , you can google " baby octopus recipe " .
If the meringues are coming out of the oven sticky , you might lower the temperature slightly and extend the drying time ( to avoid browning ) -- they should feel quite dry and very light coming out of the oven . Sugar is <URL> -- if the air is humid , any condensation -- even when you can not see it -- on the meringues will dissolve the sugar , and then they will start to feel sticky , and the downward spiral will begin . According to all my searching , it is best to make them on a low humidity day . Of course , where I live in the summer , we pretty much do n't get those . If you are having trouble with them in storage , you might try to buy some <URL> packets , and put them in the container . Most desiccant is not food safe , so it should not touch the meringue . Amazon has lots of options .
I had the same problem before , but I learned this great trick from Larousse : Try sprinkling slices of your eggplant with plenty of salt on both sides and let rest for about fifteen minutes . The salt will draw out a lot of water from the vegetable , making it less spongy . Then , dry off the slices before adding them to very hot oil in a frying pan . The hot oil should help make a nice sear , sealing off the eggplant , so it does n't soak up anymore oil . If you need to , turn down the heat after the eggplant is browned to let it finish cooking .
Oil and butter do n't have the same capacity to hold the sugar/sweetener used in the mix . Whatever is n't dissolved fully in the shortening will still be bound up in the final product ( or maybe end up mostly in the outer crust ) , and you 'll likely perceive the difference as more/less sweet . The main cause is that butter has quite a lot of water bound up in it , which you would n't find at all in oil . You might get a closer similarity by comparing melted , evaporated butter to oil ( 1-to-1 proportion ) , since solid &amp; melted butter have different volumes depending on how much water you 've evaporated ( 1 cup solid / = 1 cup melted ) . I 've got an answer in another question that applies more generally to different phases of shortenings and perceived/actual sweetness - <URL>
Standard prep for beef tongue seems to be : scrub it well and rinse , then soak it in cold water for 2-3 hours . Heat water to a low simmer ( about 200F ) and cook slowly for at least an hour per pound . Preferably cook as long as you can ( 5-6 hours ) to get a more tender result . When meat is tender and cooked , remove meat and save the broth . Cool the tongue and peel off the outer skin . The broth may be reduced and added to vegetables and meat to create a richer , meatier taco . I also found a tongue taco ( how is that NOT slang for some sexual act ? ) <URL> . Personally , I 'm also a big fan of cold boiled beef tongue with horseradish sauce . You can go from the cooked tongue straight to that just by slicing it up . Now I really want to make tongue tacos .
It is possible to do at home , but it is very labor intensive and requires equipment that most people do n't have at home . The first major step is to <URL> ( ie tapioca flour ) . The cassava must be cleaned and peeled , then finely grated or milled to break the cell walls and expose the starch . This mass is then washed in a large amount of water and the insoluble pulp is strained out and the starchy water reserved . The starch-water mixture , called " Starch milk " , is allowed to settle for 6 + hours and the water is drained off until a thick slurry is left . This slurry is then either purified further with more water then dried to form the flour . The additional washing of the slurry is important to remove residual insoluble fiber and , more importantly , cyanide-related toxins naturally found in the cassava . Traditional cultures dried the slurry on basketwork trays , but it is more efficient to do it in an oven at low temperature with regular raking and turning . The dried starch would then be sifted and used for cooking . <URL> or pearls from tapioca starch is relatively easy compared to the processing of the cassava . The tapioca starch is mixed with boiling water to form a dough which is then kneaded and rolled into the desired size balls . The tapioca balls are then cooked in boiling water until transparent . Other sources : <URL> <URL>
I can get soy beans in two varieties here : As dried beans and as edamame . Edamame is a particular type of soybean that is harvested when it is still young . The pods are cooked ( usually boiled or steamed ) and then served with salt . The beans are popped from the pod and eaten . The pod is discarded . Edamame is sweet and a little grassy because it is young . Dried soy beans can be cooked like any other bean . Their hulls tend to come free and have an unpleasant texture so it is nice to skim most of them off . The flavor is good but not unique . It tastes like a normal white bean . The raw beans have a very strong " beany " flavor but cooked beans should not . Soymilk is made from dried soybeans . The beans or the milk are cooked to remove the very strong beany flavor . The finished milk does have a hint of sweetness and bean but not strong at all . Tofu , made from soymilk , tastes the same as the milk . Besides being sweet and a little beany , it can be a little nutty tasting . It can get chalky if it is n't fresh . All of these soybean preparations are very bland . They tastes fresh and clean but there should n't be any overly strong flavors . Strong flavors in these products are often a sign that the product is past its prime . Some soybean preparations ferment the beans . These have a wide range of flavors and textures .
Chocolate is a sol , consisting of solid particles suspended in cocoa butter . It is something similar to a hard emulsion . And it can separate just the way a liquid emulsion does ( think mayonnaise ) . This happens when you melt the cocoa butter completely , so the solid particles separate from the fat . If it happens to a chocolate bar , your chocolate looks grey . If it happens to a bowl of melted chocolate , the chocolate seizes the way you describe it . This happens with both milk and dark chocolate . If you have n't experienced it with milk chocolate before , you either had luck , or your milk chocolate was of a lesser quality than the dark one and contained non-cocoa fats and/or emulsifiers , which change the behavior of the sol . The only way to prevent seizing is to work within the correct temperature zone , which is extremely narrow ( 2-3 ° C ) . Even as an experienced confiseur , it is extremely hard to judge it intuitively . If you insist on trying to watch the chocolate and guess when it is OK , you will have inconsistent results , with a seizing once every few tries . What you need is to get a candy thermometer . Keep it in the chocolate and , whenever the temperature nears the danger zone , put the inner bain marie vessel in a basin of cold water you keep near the stove for this purpose . It will cool rapidly and stay tempered . It is n't a problem if you cool it off so much it hardens again ; you can remelt chocolate as often as you want as long as you never exceed the seizing temerature . And now for the numbers . All kinds of chocolate ( milk , white , bitter ) harden at 27 ° C. Between 27 ° C and 30 ° C , they are soft , but unworkable , because they are too viscous ( hold unpacked chocolate pieces in your hand for a while to see what I mean ) . The workable zone is 30 ° C to 32 ° C for milk ( and white ) chocolate , and 30 ° C to 33 ° C for dark chocolate . Above this , your cocoa fat melts and the chocolate seizes . So , keep an eye at the thermometer , as you see , the zones are narrow . Edit : I just noticed that you call 40 % " bitter " . This is a very low cocoa percentage , and I would n't let it go up to 33 ° C . The numbers for " bitter " are probably safe for 70 % cocoa and above .
end question
start question
Whipped cream without a mixer ?
Whipped cream was made for centuries before the mixer was invented . :) You can do it with simply a balloon whisk . Things that may help though : Very cold cream ( not freezing ) Very cold bowl and whisk ( put them in the freezer for 20 minutes prior to using ) Copper bowl The process is simply to start slow until you see bubbles form , then speed up until you see the whisk begin to leave trails in the cream , then go full speed ahead until just before it starts to look soft and billowy . At this point you can add your sugar and continue whipping until thickens and firms up to form soft peaks . Advice : Buy a hand-mixer at least ! :) Update - Yes you can whip it with a stick blender . I would be careful to avoid over - whipping with this method though . It might be easy to over-do it , and you 'll start to make butter .
The biggest reason to heat milk to almost boiling before fermenting is that it improves the texture of the yogurt . During fermentation the bacteria consume lactose and produce lactic acid which causes the milk proteins to denature and coagulate trapping most of the fat . The proteins involved are primarily the casein proteins . When this happens , there is still quite a bit of protein left that is n't bound up in the new casein mesh . All of the albumin proteins are water soluble and will not add to the structure of the yogurt . These albumin proteins denature when they are heated . For this reason recipes universally call for the milk to be heated to 190 and then cooled . The albumin is denatured and is able to tangle up with the casein during fermentation and add to the yogurt structure . Skipping this step will make a very profound difference to the structure of your yogurt . Without it your yogurt will be thinner and much more fragile . When you scoop it there will be more whey and all that albumin will wash out in it . According to Harold McGee ( On Food and Cooking pp 48 ) " These treatments improve the consistency of the yogurt by denaturing the whey protein lactoglobulin , whose otherwise unreactive molecules then participate by clustering on the surfaces of the casein particles . With the helpful interference of the lactoglobulins , the casein particles can only bond to each other at a few spots , and so gather not in clusters but in a fine matrix of chains that is much better at retaining liquid in its small interstices . "
" Cream " is most certainly süße Sahne . A modifier gives you knowledge about the fat percentage . Half and half refers to 20 % fat , which you could mix yourself if needed , but few recipes are that sensitive , so you can use milk ( Vollmilch , 3.5 ) or whipping cream ( Schlagsahne , 30 to 35 percent ) . The only problem is double cream . That 's Konditorsahne , at inner 40 percent , and not available retail in Germany . If it has to be whipped , you have to find a high-ish Schlagsahne ( 33 instead of 30 ) , drizzle some Sahnesteif , and cross your fingers . If the recipe needed a cultured product , it would have specified Greek yogurt ( 10 ) or sour cream ( 10 to 20 , use saure Sahne or Schmand for that ) . Creme fraiche is not used in traditional American recipes , as it is a rare and expensive imported product . You can use it in a recipe calling for sour cream , obtaining a product with a richer mouthfeel and less tanginess . The " what type of cream is suitable " question is unrelated to terminology and should be asked separately . Briefly , the answer is " all of them " .
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
You 've certainly got the right idea - cream of tartar is nothing more than an acidifier and so any acid can be used as a substitute . It combines with water to create tartaric acid . Two important characteristics of cream of tartar are that it is ( a ) dry and ( b ) mostly flavourless . Vinegar , lemon juice , etc. are all wet and add some flavour of their own . The substitution ratio most often cited for baking is 3:1 - that is 3 tsp vinegar or lemon juice for every 1 tsp cream of tartar . Do n't use the 1:1 ratio typically given for egg whites ( meringue ) - the whole point of this in candy is to actually lower the pH , not just stabilize a foam . Again , pay close attention to how much liquid you 're adding , and if it 's significant , adjust the water content accordingly . ( Note : Technically , lemon juice would normally have a lower pH than 5 % white vinegar , but the actual pH of these is so variable that it usually ends up being pointless to worry about it . Consistency is one of the advantages of using cream of tartar . ) You could also use citric acid or ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) . Citric acid is far more concentrated than lemon juice , you would only need to use 1/4 ( 25 % ) of the amount of lemon juice . That ends up being about 3/4 tsp citric acid for 1 tsp cream of tartar . It 's a much closer substitution and does n't change the flavour much . I believe that ascorbic acid is the same . Both are normally sold in anhydrous ( powder ) form , similar to cream of tartar . All that being said , cream of tartar really is n't hard to find , it 's sold in the spice section of any grocery store . One little tin will probably last you many years , so just buy one next time .
I think some sort of mechanical aid to macerate the food is necessary for your project . Depending on what dish you attempt , there are few options . A ricer ( or food mill , depending on who you buy from ) is a manual device ( non-electric ) that you might run cooked potatoes or parsnips through . Many people do mashed potatoes this way . Depending how cooked your parsnips get , a hand blender ( or immersion blender , stick blender ) may work . However , all of this requires you to shell out some cash for a device . I 'm not sure , from your post , if that 's an option . If you 're going for ultra-smooth texture for a bisque or other soup , it might be worth it to get one of the small-bowl food processors ( just work in batches ) . Good luck !
No , it wo n't work . Michael 's comment explains why . Whipping cream is not just fat and water mixed , it is fat and water emulsified . This is a big difference . If you had some special reason to do this on a regular basis , you could get it to work by adding emulsifiers . You can beat any fat with water and lecithine or xanthan and get a creamy result . As far as I know , this is how plant based cream substitutes work . But if the issue is that you just do n't have whipping cream right now at home , then it is easier to go buy whipping cream than to go find emulsifiers ( I buy mine online , do n't know if there are brick-and-mortar B2C stores which sell them ) . If for some reason you absolutely ca n't do it in time , I would suggest using a different filling . Pastry cream works well with millefeulle , buttercream can work too , lightened with whipped eggwhites if necessary .
The heat provided by capsaicin really is a <URL> that seems to have a lot to do with how it binds to pain receptors ( see <URL> ) . I think this component would be pretty much impossible to replicate with a substitution , unless you want to physically burn yourself on your meal . You could experiment with alternative sources of strong , pungent flavor like garlic , ginger , black pepper , and horseradish , which are similar but certainly distinct . Chinese-style tacos , maybe ? That said , Tabasco and other " pepper sauces " like buffalo sauce often feature vinegar as one of their primary ingredients besides chili peppers . A few dashes cut with a bit of olive oil may help replicate some of that sharpness ; think a strong <URL> . It wo n't be quite the same , but it will help recapture at least one of those elements without causing harm to your unfortunate partner .
Have n't tried it but here : <URL> The link suggests the following technique : Vacuum seal pieces of watermelon ( if you do n't have one , just put it in a ziploc bag and take out as much as the air as possible ) Freeze it overnight Take it out and thaw
As someone who uses liquid nitrogen as part of their daily routine ( in a lab ) and who has made liquid nitrogen ice cream on several occasions , my advice would be to not use a plastic container to hold liquid nitrogen unless it 's designed to . Yes , the plastic vessel may become brittle and may fracture . I have seen some materials shatter with extreme violence when frozen with liquid nitrogen ; do not attempt this . Vessels for handling cryogenic liquids are designed especially for the job , and made from materials such as stainless steel , styrofoam , teflon , HDPE or silvered borosilicate glass . Unless you know with certainty that your container is designed to withstand temperatures of -196 & deg ; C ( -321 & deg ; F ) , do not attempt this procedure .
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
I made a sauce using the ingredient ratios specified in the question . The sweet and sour in this sauce actually balanced each other and I thought this might invalidate any experiments until I considered that they also dominated the flavour of the sauce . In other words the sauce was a little too tangy ( or tart if you prefer ) . For the purposes of this answer , I 'll make the following distinctions : sour : A taste where there is not enough sweetness to balance the acidic notes ; tangy : A taste where sweet and acidic notes are balanced ; tart : A taste that is tangy , but the sweet and acidic notes together dominate flavour . Note that I do n't suggest that this is the accepted nomenclature . I think it is possible that the OP confounded sour with tart which may explain the specification of no additional sugar in the question . Colour as a sweetener As the <URL> says , The color of food can affect sweetness perception . Adding more red color to a drink increases its perceived sweetness with darker colored solutions being rated 2 -- 10 % higher than lighter ones even though it had 1 % less sucrose concentration . The colour of this sauce became much duller during cooking , so I tested the effect on taste of using a green food dye . I did n't notice any difference in a side-by-side taste-test , even though the sauce with food dye did look much nicer , I did one more test adding more dye and this time , to my surprise , the sauce with the more vibrant colour tasted very slightly , but nevertheless distinctly sweeter than the original . I did n't quite believe this , so I taste tested this several times with the same result . This led me to suspect the food dye itself and , sure enough , it tasted sweet due to an amount of glycerol in the ingredients . Despite invalidating my experiment , glycerol is neither sugar nor honey and as such answers the OP 's question directly ( if indeed the sauce was sour and needed sweetening ) . Adding to that the fact that the sauce now looks more appetising , I can recommend using green food dye whether or not colour has any effect on taste . Salt I also tested the suggestion of another poster , where salt is used to sweeten the sauce . I did n't hold out much hope for this technique , having experimented with salt on all manner of fruits a couple of days back . Once again , I was surprised . Salt made a positive difference , although this time the sauce was no sweeter than before . Quite the opposite ; sweetness was reduced ( which is consistent with my earlier experiments ) . The sour note was also reduced , so sweet and sour were still balanced leaving the sauce tangy but not tart . I adding a pinch more salt and now the salty taste came through and ruined the sauce . I recommend adding salt if the sauce is similar to mine and excessively tart rather than actually sour . It is easy to overstep the mark when adding salt . I suggest making a little more sauce than actually necessary and putting an amount aside before adding the salt so that you can re-introduce some if you do go overboard . Dilution Finally I tested the advice to thin-out the sauce with water . This was the least promising result and it seems to me that sweetness disappeared faster than the sour taste . I tried various dilutions , but nothing compared well to the original and flavour was lost . Possibly this could work if you dilute the sauce with something more flavourful than water , but I would recommend the other two methods over this if you want to stay true to the original recipe .
I think it all got too hot , but there might be other problems . Did you mix the cornstarch in completely ? Leaving undissolved cornstarch is a sure way to obtain ' blobs ' . Did you pour the hot milk onto the egg-mixture ? You should do that very slowly and whisk vigorously ( while trying to splash everything ) . If the eggs get too hot , they will coagulate . Did you use a double boiler ? Putting the pan on an open flame will make the bottom too hot and the eggs will coagulate . Even if you did use a double boiler , did you whisk regularly while heating ? The eggs at the bottom will become far warmer than the eggs in the center ... As rumtscho mentioned , a thermometer will be useful for monitoring the done-ness of the custard . Generally , a fully cooked custard should not exceed 80 ° C ; it begins setting at 70 ° C. Source : <URL>
If you add coriander , it should be because you agree with Mr. Weeks 's assertion that it has a particular affinity with blueberry . Freshly ground coriander has a vibrant citrusy aroma , and ( though I have n't tried it ) , I can see how it would go well in blueberry ice cream . I 've found that sometimes a single flavor can be a little monotonous , and the coriander can bring some fun to the party . Give it a shot and see what you think .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
While I suppose this is technically possible , I would never consider trying to make this substitution . Muffins are are form of quick bread . Their structure is based on gelatinized starch from the flour , leavened by chemical leavers such as baking powder or baking soda . In chiffon cakes , sponge cakes , and angel food cakes , the whipped egg whites or meringue form the primary basis of the structure as a foam with mechanically beaten in air . These batters are much much thinner than quick bread batters , generally , so that the other ingredients can be folded with the egg whites while maintaining the foam . Instead , I suggest you take a different approach : Find a better quick bread recipe -- there are many , many good <URL> recipes easily searchable . If you do n't find a muffin recipe you like , you can always use any banana bread recipe for muffins as well , since quick breads and muffins are the same thing , just baked in different shapes . Find a recipe for a <URL> or <URL> . You can always bake these recipes in cupcake form if you like . Finding a good coherent recipe will almost certainly by easier than trying to adapt a muffin recipe you are not happy with into something else . If you are really wanting to transform recipes more generally , you need to learn the basis on which they work . You might want to read <URL> , as a starting point -- however , the ratios of ingredients are only part of the story . The other part of the story is the method or technique by which they are prepared . In the world of cakes and muffins and quick breads , these include the muffin method , the creaming method , the <URL> , and -- I do n't know a general name for this method -- but the whipped egg whites folded with other ingredients technique . Each of these methods works optimally with different ratios of ingredients , but also achieves different outcomes with the same ingredients . So you would have to analyze the individual recipe , adjust the ratio of ingredients , and possibly modify the method by which the ingredients are prepared or combined . Frankly , to lighten a muffin recipe , I would first ask : are you measuring correctly ? Too much flour is going to lead to a dense outcome , and flour is very easy to mismeasure . I would suggest always baking by weight , not volume when you can . Reputable recipe sites for baked goods will tell you the weight of flour in addition to the volume measurement , or at least tell you what the standard weight of a cup of flour is . If no such guide is provided , I find that using a 4.5 oz ( US ) standard cup for flour is pretty generally successful . My second approach would be to very , very slightly increase the amount of baking powder , maybe by 1/4 tsp increments in two different trials . If that fails , you might try reducing the flour by 25 % or 50 % , but not increasing the number of eggs ; instead , change your method from the muffin method to the whipped egg white method , separating the eggs , whipping the egg whites , and then folding them into the other wet ingredients , then gently folding in the dry ingredients . Still , when you do these kinds of changes , you need to test your recipes , keep careful notes , and so on . I still would start by researching already tested recipes that achieve the outcome you desire .
Growing up , my mother always used to bake them . They do turn out a bit drier than if you deep-fried them , but not overmuch . They cook for about 15-20 minutes at 400 ° F ( ~ 200 ° C ) , or until golden and crispy on the outside . Alternately , you can pan-fry them , as other answers have suggested . Or you can split the difference and oven fry them . If you 're unfamiliar , Google can acquaint you with the process . Here 's a good NPR article to get you started : <URL>
If you do most of the kneading while the dough is very wet ( like Jeff Varasano recommends for his pizza dough here <URL> ) , you should be able to do most of it with even a comparatively weak hand mixer and not have too much trouble holding it steady enough ( see link - gluten IS working even though the dough is still only slightly more dry than a batter ) . That said , if you try to work with a drier dough , even if your motor can handle it ( which it likely ca n't ) , it will probably be more difficult to hold the mixer than to just knead the dough by hand .
Heavy Whipping Cream ( at least in the States I believe ) has a fat content of 36 % or greater . Light Cream generally sits between 30 % and 36 % . Heavier cream generally will have a " richer " taste . Light Cream will also not whip quite as thick and not hold it 's form as well . That said , for most cases , I 've successfully managed to use them interchangeably . I guess it might make a difference if you were doing something where holding a rigid structure for extended periods of time was important . Note : What various grades of cream/dairy are called varies by region ... Here in Canada we have Whipping Cream 35 % and Heavy Cream ~ 40 % . If I were somewhere where " Light Whipping Cream " sat closer to 30 % , I might grab something a little higher . <URL> <URL>
The only one that could feasibly handle it would be the grinder . However , in the manual <URL> on page 5 it states " Note : Very hard , dense foods such as totally dried homemade bread should not be ground in the Food Grinder . Homemade bread should be ground fresh and then oven or air-dried . " If dried , dense bread is too much for the grinder then peanuts would definitely be to much as well . My recommendation is to use a food processor .
end question
start question
What is the best way to infuse mint into a tomato sauce ?
Mint likes oil . And it likes water . And it likes alcohol . Like most complex flavors , mint is complicated . The greener , vegetal notes are going to be from compounds like chlorophyll , and will be alcohol and very weakly water soluble . The astringent , sharper notes are going to from compounds like menthol , which are oil soluble . In general , the faster flavors , the ones that hit fast and fade faster , are water soluble , while the ones that linger are oil soluble . Mint flavor is sold both as an extract , in a base of water or alcohol , and as an essential oil , in a base of ... oil . As for cooking , I would skip the tomatoes entirely , and do a mint and parsley pesto with walnuts and olive oil . Why ? I like mint .
In professional smoothie/frozen youghurt/fruit shake shops , you 'll usually see the fruit frozen in small pieces for easy portioning . So raspberrys and blueberrys are fine , but you 'd wnat to quarter strawberrys and cube mangoes or apples or kiwis or whatever before freezing them . The freezing process itself is important to the strucutral integrity of the fruit , and will affect its texture . However , if you only want them for smoothies/blended drinks , that is n't very important . As a usage note , remember that a home freezer compartment is usually at -4 degrees Celsius , whereas a chest freezer ( deep freeze ) would more commonly be at -18 degrees . A good blender wo n't mind either way , but your lips might find it a bit cold . Also , you might find you can buy the fruit pre-frozen from the same vendors the shops get them , in which case it will be prepared for you , and all you need is to defrost and blend . Aside from saving you the work of peeling and chopping , their freezing process may be better , and it 'll probably end up being cheaper too .
Honey should be stored at 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit Honey is similar in to olive oil and should be storaged between 50-70 Degrees Fahrenheit according to <URL> : Similar to olive oil , honey should be stored at a cool temperature between 50 and 70 degrees Fahrenheit . So , it 's best to store it away from your oven or stove . Also , it should not be refrigerated . Extreme changes in temperature will spoil the flavor of honey . Looks like this confirms that you may want to keep it in a cool place and away from hot temperature where it would cause honey to degrade in quality . <URL> continues : Remember Do not store honey in a refrigerator or near a stove or oven . Store it in an air-tight container . Thus , choosing an appropriate container is an important part of the equation . <URL> has a great article germane to this topic . Refrigerating Honey In the <URL> , it talks mentions the crystallizing state of honey if it is refrigerated in no way it harms the honey at all . Restoring honey from a crystalized form I know this is not related to your question . But something you asked in the comments . Apparently , honey can be <URL> : placing it in the microwave for 20 seconds can restore it from a crystallized form . Therefore , you can store it in the refrigerator and heat it afterwards . The downside is that if stored in <URL> . Proper Storage Container Since honey has <URL> in it it is difficult for microorganisms to grow . Thus , an airtight container is of utmost importance . If moisture gets in the container it can be an ideal environment for mold and yeast to grow . Honey should be thrown out if it <URL> Long Term Storage of Honey Honey can be stored for long periods of time without any issue . Over time , <URL> .
I always used to reach in and grab stuff , but I would always put a piece of tape over the switch first .
Once it 's cooled down some , I switch to using my hands ... expecially as it helps to find any bones , globs of fat , etc. . I find it goes much faster , particularly if you 're dealing with anything other than boneless breast meat . ... but it shreds easiest while it 's still warm , so if I 'm doing a fair bit , I 'll break a bit apart using forks , let that cool , break some more apart with a fork , then shread the first bit before it cools too much , repeat . ( so basically , I have one set broken down somewhat to cool faster while I 'm shreding an already-cooled off bit ) . update as justkt mentioned , the cooking method matters -- roasting and other high heat methods are going to cook the outside faster than the inside . I typically poach my chicken if I 'm going to be shreding it -- bring water to a boil , add chicken , bring back to a boil , turn to low , then leave for an hour or two ... the low temp gets it all nice and tender , while the boiling kills surface bacteria .
Store them in the bag in your fridge . Also , if you take the greens off they will last longer . I keep mine in the drawer at the bottom .
I ca n't select either of the above answers as the best answer for the following reason : The brownie I 'm making is meant to be " gooey " , and even after cooling for 2 hours , and then chilling in the fridge for another 30 minutes , the the upper-half brownie still remained fudge-like . I ended up using Jay 's suggestion to eye-ball a 4x4 grid , however I did n't use a hot knife . I used a plastic knife with an up-and-down sawing motion and got fantastic results . The cuts were as clean as you could ask for , and the entire process did n't take more than 5-10 minutes . As an aside : I decided to forgo the " aluminum foil sling " and just spray the 9 " x13 " pan with PAM , line the bottom with parchment paper , and spray it down one more time . The brownie " loaf " came out with zero fuss and had a perfect looking crust . edit : I plan on experimenting with 2 large metal rulers to score the loaf , instead of eyeballing the grid .
It 's actually pretty straight forward and fairly easy to do . Build a fire . You are building a cooking fire , not a warm hands and look pretty fire . I use a <URL> . Wait for it to burn down so there are plenty of white coals . You do n't want lots of " fire " . Fire is pretty to look at , but more unpredictable to cook in then hot white coals . While the fire is burning down , wash and prep your potatoes to bake as you would normally . Wrap them tightly in tin foil . Once the fire is burned down to hot , white coals , toss the potatoes directly onto the coals . Wait until cooked ( roughly 40 minutes for an average sized potato , on an average fire , adjust accordingly ) . If you have a shovel or something , put some coals on to the actual potato as well , so you 're completely surrounding it . It 'll speed it up . If you do n't have anything handy to handle coals , make sure you flip them half way . Remove carefully and enjoy . The moisture of a potato , will allow it to cook without burning . Just make sure you wrap them with no exposed areas , in order to trap the steam .
Found the second answer to my question . Per each cup of gluten free flour , add one tsp of xanthan gum ! Woo hoo !
It depends on what you 're doing with the chocolate . If temperature is n't that critical and its going to be mixed into a cake or brownies or such , then do it in the microwave . Its simpler and as long as you do n't rush it , its does a good job . Just go 10-20 seconds at a time , in bowl that does n't hold heat well . If you need precise temperature controlled chocolate ( for tempering perhaps ) , its best to use a double boiler . The bottom pan just has steaming water - so I never really count that as a dirty dish . With the double boiler , you get several advantages . It wo n't get any hotter than the water . It its gradual and gentle . And you can monitor and stir as the temperature rises . If it turns grainy , its likely a bit of water dripped in . Depending on the top bowl on the double boiler , its possible to accidentally knock some condensation into the chocolate ... and now its toast . I use a top bowl that has a small outer lip on it to keep this from happening .
Garlic flavors are soluble in oil , simply chopping up garlic and putting it in with the rice will not distribute the flavor well . I would recommend you chop the garlic finely and then infuse into a tablespoon of oil or butter by putting the pan on very low heat for a few minutes . Then add the rice and stir to coat the grains with the infused oil before adding water and cooking as normal . How much garlic to use depends on how strong your garlic is and how garlic-y you want it to taste . 5 tbsp of rice is n't much , for a medium garlic flavor using average strength garlic a whole small clove or half a large is probably enough . With the garlic I grow I 'd add a few slices from a clove at most . Another option would be to cook the rice and then stir in the garlic infused oil afterwards , The benefits to this option are that you can drain the rice after cooking without all the flavor going down the drain .
I usually pop my rice into a pan , shake the pan to even the rice out across the bottom of the pan . I then add cold water to cover roughly half way up my thumb where my thumb is touching the surface of the rice . Place onto the hob and quickly bring to the boil and then immediately turn down to the lowest setting on the smallest ring and cover with a lid . Leave the rice to cook for around 30-35 minutes . Do n't be worried if it looks like it 's going to dry out , the steam in the pan under the lid will keep things moist . Do n't be tempted to remove the lid to check on things , you 'll lose all the moisture/steam and it 'll dry out/stick .
The best way ? Plan better . :) The microwave is rarely a good plan for quick defrosting , as you found out . I would suggest putting the container in warm to hot running tap water . The warmer the water is the faster it will melt , but it will also melt more unevenly - though nothing like the microwave . The important part is that the water is running , and is at least room temperature . It 's not going to be quick like a microwave , but it 'll be faster than just letting it sit . Edit I 've never tried this , but I imagine a hair dryer might work well too . It 'll just be noisier :) The concept is the same , just moving air instead of water .
Do you have a large plastic container ? Something like this : . Use a non-permanent marker on the outside to mark the initial volume . A small diameter will make it easier to monitor the volume .
Well , one obvious answer is to look at the number of portions in the box . ( This is found in the nutrition information . ) Then divide the amount in the box by the number of portions . I just pulled down a box of linguine from my shelf . One pound yields eight 2 oz . portions . Which means all you have to do is divide in half three times . It wo n't be exact , but you 'll get pretty close . ( To get exact , you could always count the number of noodles then divide by eight . But that 's WAY too much work . )
That 's the same method I would use . If you have a salad spinner you could try giving them a gentle spin in there first . They are sturdy enough ( unless they 're over-ripe ) that they should handle a gentle pass through it .
First , I would suggest you buy a higher quality can opener . I have a Swing-A-Way that I inherited from my grandmother . I think it 's older than me . Second , do n't submerge the can opener in water every time you use it . I only full out wash it on the rare occasion I splash or drop something all over it . The rest of the time I just use my dishcloth to wipe the blade and handles clean and let it dry in the dish rack before putting it away .
In their various parts of the world , all of these words mean sauce , at least some of the time . They come from different cultures , though , and carry different connotations at least in US usage . Short answer , though : there are no absolute differences that you can count on . Salsa This is a generic term in Spanish , and in South American cuisines . It can cover everything from a thick , dark mole , an adobo , a light and piquant salsa verde , or the typical tomato , onion and pepper sauce often served with chips in the US . Some salsas are smooth ; others are chunky . They can be cooked or raw . Many people use the word to indicate the red , fresh or lightly cooked tomato salsa with onions , garlic , peppers and usually cilantro often served in Mexican restaurants in the US , but this is only the beginning of what salsas can be . Sauce The generic term . Almost any flavorful liquid put on another food to enhance it . These range from elegently smooth ( such as hollandaise ) to quite chunky such as putanesca sauce . Gravy Gravy tends to be a sauce made from meat drippings , and thickened to serve with the meat or its accompaniments . In Italian-American usage , it often covers " Sunday Gravy " or a ragu made from tomatoes and one or more ( or many meats ) that in some communities was traditionally made on Sunday ; and more generally , any sauce with meat in it . I am told that in Italian in the context of pasta sauces , the actual word is ( forgive my spelling ) accompanimento , an accent for the pasta which is the star . Chutney The word chutney derives from the India/Pakistan region , where again there are a myriad different sauces that carry the title . In the US , it tends to be used for a chunky , acidic sauce made from fruit and/or vegetables . This overlaps considerably with jam or preserves , in this sense , although chutneys tend to be much more strongly spiced , and may contain complex combinations of complimentary ingredients . Still , this does n't cover the full range such as a chutney of pureed cilantro and/or mint , which is much more thin and sauce-like than the above more typical US usage . Conclusion You can not really draw strict distinctions among these categories . You have to know what the specific sauce or item is that is being discussed to strongly draw inferences about it .
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
end question
start question
What is the difference between butterscotch , caramel , and toffee ?
Butterscotch and caramel are very different things . The taste difference between the two is far from ' slight ' in my opinion . Caramel is typically made with granulated sugar , milk and/or cream , butter , and sometimes vanilla . The primary flavors of caramel are the sugar and milk/cream . Butterscotch on the other hand is made with brown sugar . It 's primary flavors are brown sugar and butter . It typically also contains milk/cream but they are not as prominent as caramel . Toffee is butterscotch that has been cooked to the <URL> stage . There is no liquor in butterscotch . There is a lot of leeway in what things get called caramel , butterscotch , and toffee . The important differences to keep in mind are that caramel is made with granulated sugar , whereas toffee and butterscotch are made with brown sugar and much more butter .
Looking at individual recipes , there is a great deal of overlap between Crêpes and Swedish pancakes . If , however , you compare hundreds of recipes , some clear differences emerge . There are also differences between the English interpretations of these recipes and those written in French or Swedish . In the chart above , each cohort consists of at least 100 distinct recipe ratios , except for <URL> Crêpes ratio which is provided for comparison . A taste test of the Swedish recipe Pannkakor with French recipe Crêpes revealed the following differences : Batter : The increased liquid content of the Swedish pancakes made the batter much thinner than the Crêpes batter . Swedish pancakes are made in a pan with a raised lip around the edge . This allows the thin batter to be sloshed around , evenly coating the pan surface without running over the edge . Crêpes , on the other hand , are made on a <URL> . The batter must be thick enough that it will not run over the edge . A T-shaped spreader is used to evenly coat the crêpe maker surface in a perfect disk shape . Frying : Crêpes fried up extremely easily , unsticking themselves from the skillet ( I had neither a pancake pan , nor a crêpe maker available at the time ) making it possible to toss the Crêpes instead of flipping with a spatula . Swedish pancakes , on the other hand , require a bit of fiddling with a spatula to flip them . Crêpes had a slight tendency to curl up at the sides after flipping so they cooked less evenly than the pancakes which stayed perfectly flat after flipping . Flip side of a Crêpe ( French recipe ) Flip side of a Swedish pancake ( Swedish recipe ) I also tested Michael Ruhlman 's Crêpes ratio . These curled up to a much greater extent than French recipe Crêpes after flipping and were , consequently , quite unevenly browned on one side . Flip side of a Ruhlman 's Crêpe Taste and consistency : Both French recipe Crêpes and Swedish recipe pancakes hit caramel and butterscotch notes . In short , they both tasted great . The Crêpe consistency was a little tough together with traditional Swedish accompaniments ( Whipped cream and Strawberry jam ) whereas the Swedish pancakes were light and fluffy ; this worked perfectly with the filling . I tested again with lemon juice and sugar and this time the Crêpes won through , holding up well to the additional liquid while the Swedish pancakes became a bit soggy . Ruhlman 's Crêpe recipe did n't perform nearly as well . The caramel flavour was much less pronounced , they had a dry mouth-feel and they were tougher than French recipe Crêpes . For anyone who wants to form their own opinion , here are the ratios and ingredients I used in the tests : Swedish Pancakes ( based on 200 Swedish recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:3.5:1:0.16 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 79g or 150ml all purpose flour 278g or 278ml milk 80g , 68ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 13g or 13ml butter 1/4 tsp salt Crêpes ( based on 119 French recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:1.97:0.75:0.17 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 116g or 219ml all purpose flour 228g or 228ml milk 86g , 73ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 20g or 20ml unsalted butter 1/4 tsp salt Update : Joe 's comment prompted me to chart the ingredient proportions as a <URL> .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
If I recall correctly the differences are slight , but significant . Both have a subtle , delicate flavour with an exceptionally light texture . The Victorian is usually regarded as the healthier , lighter of the two , but I believe this is mostly due to the Génoise usually being rendered as a layer cake with a lavish buttercream filling , though if I remember right it can also be used as a base for madeleines and ladyfingers . The Victorian can be baked thin and carefully rolled with cream for Swiss rolls . The main difference is the Victorian slices disorderly and ' crumby ' while the Génoise retains its form neatly . Both are accompanied well by , and are traditionally served with hot beverages namely tea and coffee . The Italian creation is undecidedly the more complex one to prepare . You 're right about separating the egg whites and beating them separately aerating the mixture further , but I 'm not certain if it would make a noticeable difference in case of sponge cakes but I 'd love it if someone could comment on this .
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
Traditionally <URL> used radiant heat to cook meat . This would have taken place over an open flame , typically on a rotating <URL> . In modern times this method is now called <URL> . Modern roasting refers to dry heat cooking that takes place in an oven , the food is cooked by <URL> . Until the late 19th century this method was referred to as baking . <URL> is essentially the same as roasting in modern times . Baking most often refers specifically to the cooking of " baked goods " ( breads , pastries , etc. ) . However , the terms baking and roasting are often used interchangeably ( baked chicken , roast chicken ) . There does n't seem to be a hard and fast rule here as to which term is used . For example , you roast asparagus , turkey , chicken , but bake lasagna , casseroles , and also chicken . <URL> uses a combination of moist and dry heat to cook the food . This is what occurs in a crock pot , or in dutch oven/stock pot in the oven . Your meat will be cooked in an ample amount of seasoned liquid such as wine and/or stock . <URL> I had never heard of before . According to Wikipedia it 's a trademarked method of pressurized deep frying . I doubt this is what you were referring to .
I addition to what Tabiasopdenbrouw said , and more to the point of usage/taste : Bacon is typically cut thinner and ends up crispier than pancetta . Both are often rendered for their fat before adding onions , peppers , etc. . . to the pan to pick up those pork fat flavors . Pancetta is often saltier in flavor though this is usually the case because the pancetta is cut thicker or into dices , so you get bigger bites of it and thus more salt . This is the biggest different between the two .
Potato pancakes are held together , usually with egg , sometimes flour as well . Hash Browns are usually just the potato , maybe onion and seasonings .
Pan frying means letting the food sit in the pan and occasionally stirring or flipping . It tends to be done with larger pieces of food , and at a medium to medium-high heat . Sautéing means shaking the pan back and forth - making the food " jump " , if you 're translating directly . It 's done at a high heat , for a short time , usually with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped ingredients . Shallow frying , according to some references , refers to the food being partially ( halfway ) submerged in hot oil and flipped once , as opposed to deep-frying where the food is fully-submerged the whole time .
I had to consult my copy of Bread Baker 's Apprentice by Peter Reinhart to be sure , but here is a quote : There are two types of firm , or dry , pre-ferments and two types of wet pre-ferments . The firm pre-ferments are known as pâte fermentée and biga . The wet pre-ferments are called poolish and levain levure . ... Biga , an italian style of firm pre-ferment , differs from pâte fermentée in that it does n't have any salt in it . Also , rather than cutting off a piece of finished bread dough to hold back as an improver , a biga is made specifically to be used as a pre-ferment . So , it seems the main difference lies in the hydration of the dough , where a poolish is made with a ratio of equal water and flour . There also seems to be a few other differences . A biga apparently uses .5 percent yeast to flour , while a poolish uses .25 percent . Mr Reinhart does not say anything about a concrete difference in final result between these methods - just that a ' wet ' pre-ferment is faster . Faster in the sense that in the same time-frame a poolish will develop more flavor and character than a dry pre-ferment . Sadly I 've personally only used a wet pre-ferment , since it is easier to handle . Just whisk it prior to bed time with a wire whisk and mix in the rest of the ingredients the next day . Having a full blown dough makes it more difficult to incorporate the rest of the ingredients .
<URL> is a style / kind of a sauce that originated in Napoli usually made with tomatoes , garlic , herbs , and onions . A spaghetti sauce only says where to sauce is used ( obviously on <URL> ) but does n't say anything about what the sauce is exactly like . There are <URL> which are basically spaghetti + sauce : <URL> -- which literally translates to " spaghetti mariner 's style " <URL> -- " spaghetti with garlic and oil " , originated in Napoli <URL> -- " spaghetti whore-style " <URL> -- " spaghetti coal worker 's style " and , uhmmm ... <URL> -- an Italian-American invention
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
There is a wide range of pancake variants . <URL> are an egg-white leavened pancake often served with fruit and nuts , with the pancake itself being shredded for presentation . This is different than the most typical pancakes served in the US , which are not egg-white leavened , but baking powder leavened , but it is still a type of pancake .
It 's a regional preference on what they 're called . When you 're buying seeds , they 're also called " bunching onions " , and I grew up calling them " scallions " , although I think that scallion specifically do n't have a bulb yet formed , while green/spring onions might . update : A little research suggests that " spring onion " is the preferred term in the UK , AU and Canada , " green onion " in the US south , and " scallion " in the US northeast , however I 'm not sure what the exact boundries are as in the US mid-atlantic , I 'll see both " green onions " and " scallions " for sale , with " green onions " being larger ( scallions with no bulb , maybe 12 " / 30cm long , while green onions might have a 2 " / 5cm bulb , and have over 24 " / 60cm of green top ) . It 's possible that " green onion " might be a polysemous term that varies by region .
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
Differences are mainly a question of origin . Speck comes from Tyrol ( it actually means " bacon " in german , which is misleading ) and is prepared with a specific blend of spices , usually including juniper , Jamon Serrano from Spain ( it means " mountain ham " in spanish ) and is a dry-cured ham , and prosciutto just means " ham " in italian . There are plenty of differences in flavor , consistency and aspect , depending on the difference of preparation : ripening , spices and herbs and so on .
Pot Roasting = Braising This more recent document from the same association , Cattlemen 's Beef Board and National Cattlemen 's Beef , supports this by using them interchangeably : <URL> I was trying to figure out what the document from your question may have been implying by the cuts the different cooking techniques were recommended for . And I 'd guess , because Pot Roasting is applied to more connective heavy cuts , that braising would be a shorter cooking time . That 's my best guess .
The difference between the two can be seen below ( the post it is from is an <URL> ) : The corn flour is the white , finer ingredient on the right . The first obvious difference is that the texture will differ between the two . The second is that it would have different uses . Both would be effective at displacing gluten-containing flours ( as in , neither would be helpful in gluten formation ) . In terms of substitution , however , corn meal is likelier substituted by something like semolina flour and corn flour is likelier better substituted by quinoa or garbanzo bean flour .
end question
start question
Is it okay to store sandwich ( tonkatsu sandwich ) in a container ?
As long as the tonkatsu is cooked and then cooled appropriately ( ie relatively quickly ) , then stored at appropriate temperatures ( ie refrigerated ) until consumption , you should be fine . The length of your journey to work will be the main factor - you need to keep the food cool enough , so a cool bag with ice blocks may be in order . Then you need to make sure they remain cool until they are consumed . Whether or not they should be reheated is probably a matter of taste . Also , check your local regulations for selling food for public consumption . It will vary from country to country , but many places will require a kitchen inspection and permit before you can legally sell food .
See this <URL> page , it states that if not crumpled aluminum foils is generally safe , so make sure you do not crumple it . Then it says The USDA recommends that aluminum foil used as a partial food shield in microwave cooking cover no more than one quarter of a food object , and be carefully smoothed to eliminate sparking hazards . The <URL> states However , small pieces of aluminum foil can be used to " shield " areas of foods , such as poultry drumsticks and wings , to prevent overcooking . It also states General Rules for Safe Use of Aluminum Foil : Use new , smooth foil only . Wrinkled foil can cause arcing ( sparks ) . Cover no more than 1/4 of the food with foil . Shape the foil smoothly to the food so no edges stick out It makes no difference which side of foil ( shiny or dull ) is facing out . Do not place the foil closer than one inch from the oven walls . If the microwave oven has metal shelves OR a metal turntable , do n't microwave food in foil containers or metal pans , and do n't let foil used for shielding touch or be close to the shelves or turntable . If you see arcing ( sparks ) , immediately remove the foil shielding ; transfer frozen food from foil container to a microwave-safe utensil . My bolding . So make sure you only cover the top of the cup and make the foil smooth , do not crumple it and it should be safe . The reason to use this as stated in the blog is speed , a few minutes compared to much longer .
You did n't say where your product was packaged , but according to the USDA , " Use by " dates refer to best quality , and are not safety dates . This is especially true when foods are handled well ... in your case , factory sealed . Additionally , I ca n't see how the proteins would go anywhere . Given the reportedly good flavor ( not an indication of safety , but simply of good taste ) , I would use it .
The two main issues with ground coffee are : The coffee losing its aroma . The aroma/flavor of coffee is quite volatile , and will evaporate very easily . The solution to this is an airtight container , with as little head room in it as possible . The coffee soaking up moisture from the air . This makes the coffee ... unpleasant . The best solution I 've found ( in a hot humid climate ) is to put it in the freezer . It is the nature of refrigeration to leech all of the moisture from the freezer compartment . In summary , the best I 've found is a small airtight box in the freezer .
That is absolutely fine . 00 flour is super-overpriced here , so much so that it is hardly ever used . Semolina is often used on the pizza peel , but really not all that often in the dough itself . There are more recipes for pizza dough than probably anything else on the internet . Some use all-purpose flour , some use bread flour , and some use no wheat at all . You can get away anything with some experimentation . <URL> has some of the best instruction around on everything pizza . You do n't say where you are from , but know that " all-purpose " flour has a different meaning to some people in India , and will behave differently than the medium-gluten wheat flour that is " all-purpose " to most of us . That does n't mean you ca n't use <URL> ( what is sold in much of India as " all-purpose " flour ) , just that it will behave differently . There is no safety issue at all to mixing flour types . Assuming that the flours are safe individually , they will be safe combined .
It 's a simple matter of viscosity , when eggs are cold the white is less runny . When eggs are warm the white is much more runny . As for whether it is easier to separate eggs when cold or warm it depends on your method . If you use the shells to separate the white , by cracking them in half and then transferring the yolk back and forth between the halves , then I 'd say cold is a bit better because once the white starts to drip out it tends to go as a whole . With warm eggs more white will stay in the shell with the yolk . However , if you use your hands to separate the eggs , by letting the white drip between your fingers ( or using an egg separator which does the same thing ) , warm eggs work much better because the runniness allows them to flow easier . This method works fine for cold eggs too , but warm is faster . Of the two methods I prefer using my hands rather than the shell for a few reasons : Less broken yolks : It 's easier to break a yolk when using shells It 's faster : especially if your eggs are room temperature you can separate eggs twice as fast this way You can whip the whites right away : Most of the time the reason you are separating the egg whites is to whip them into peaks , and warm whites whip better than cold whites . If your eggs are warm already then you can whip them right away , if they are cold you have to wait for them to warm up A handy trick if you are separating a lot of eggs is to separate each white into a separate bowl , then putting the white into a larger bowl with the rest of them . This is so if you get a bad egg , or a yolk breaks into the white you can discard the egg and keep the rest of them .
Cooking in a dishwasher is related to some other non-orthodox places to cook , like on the manifold of a car on a road trip . Basically , you 're aiming to put food in an environment that 's somewhere between 160F ( 71C ) and 300F ( 150C ) already , for non-cooking reasons . That 's strange , but not entirely nuts . The dishwasher is going to stay south of 212F ( 100C ) , but , a decent dishwasher does n't stay very far below that threshold . It 's going to go through several variations of how that heat 's applied , from the actual washing cycle to the drying cycle . And , if you run a regular cycle of dishes , there 's going to be a bunch of foreign substances ( soap , food bits from the dishes ( and in the car manifold situation , things like oil ) ) all around it . So , your goal is to wrap the food in something that can both handle the heat and seal out the foreign stuff . To me , the most obvious solution to this is the vacuum sealed pouches used for sous vide . You 're not going to get anything remotely close to the consistent temps for sous vide , but for the dishwasher , you 're still talking about mostly cooking in " hot water " and hot , moist air , so that 's close enough to give a shot . So , I 'd fill the pouch with seasonings/marinades and let it ride and see what comes out . I would n't expect it to be great , but it might be worth a shot for the shock value alone .
I can not speak to the historical trends in the UK , but in the US , the rise of commercial , sandwich style bread is part of a larger set of food trends that took place after World War II , into the 1950s . Housewives were looking to reduce the amount of labor they spent in the kitchen , such as baking from scratch , while simultaneously there was a trend towards processed " scientific " products that were seen as pure and wholesome at the time . See this article from <URL> for more information . I would argue that the modern is actually moving away to this with the " slow food " and " whole food " trend , and the rising availability of more traditional loaves in regular grocery stores , and increased awareness again of home baking . In fact , recently , whole wheat and whole grain bread has passed white bread in popularity according <URL> from the Chicago Tribune .
Store them in the bag in your fridge . Also , if you take the greens off they will last longer . I keep mine in the drawer at the bottom .
Yes , it is perfectly safe ( as long as you continue to thaw the meat in a safe manner , as in the refrigerator ) . The marinade will not begin to have much effect until at least the outer layers of the meat are thawed , but it will not otherwise have any side effect . It may get slightly better penetration due to the changes in the texture of the meat from ice crystals , but the effect should be negligible at best . In fact , you can freeze the meat in its marinade if you so choose , and know what you are going to use it for when you thaw . It will get the benefit of marination time until the outer layers are frozen , and then again during the thawing .
Yes . It 's much more fun to cook with gas , and the way I see it , any incentive I can provide for myself to cook good food at home is a major net positive in quality of life . The setup I have is three gas burners and one electric stove top element , and an electric oven . The electric stove top really comes in handy when reducing stocks or making long-cooking soups and stews , and it can significantly reduce the amount of gas you use in cooking . For oven I would definitely go electric . See the <URL> question . I have one 5 kg liquid gas bottle stashed under the sink , and it lasts 3-4 months of heavy daily cooking for two , maybe 6 months in the summer when I eat more salads etc. . In addition I have another 2kg bottle for backup if I run out of gas in the middle of cooking , and for the day or so it takes me to haul another bottle from the store . Having a smaller backup bottle does n't waste too much space . I 've been considering upgrading to a 11kg composite bottle , which I expect to last 10 months to a year , and it 's way more economical . So far though the convenience of having a smaller bottle I can carry to the store for changing without a sweat has been great .
Most of the <URL> . So unopened , you should have no problem storing at room temp . Once you open the bottle , microorganism 's can get in . With a sugary liquid like Apple juice , wild yeasts will find a happy home , and ferment up a bubbly alcoholic apple beverage for you . This can take a week or two to happen , and the result is usually tasty rather than deadly . Sometimes you 'll end up with vinegar rather than an alcoholic ferment . There 's some small chance of picking up a nasty microbe in your apple juice over a three day period , but it was never enough to stop people from drinking unrefrigerated cider in the days before Pasteurization or refrigeration .
Gorgonzola , like any other blue cheese , is supposed to have mold . It should have blue mold radiating from " veins " through the middle , like so : Normally this pre-existing mold actually helps prevent other molds from growing , but if you see more than one type of mold ( especially a different colour like green or black ) , then you should throw it out , because it is a soft cheese . If it 's just the blue , it 's perfectly fine and expected .
To some extent , this is a question to which the answers are necessarily quite subjective . However , as a general guideline , I would suggest that you look at the bread as just another ingredient in the dish -- not as somehow distinct from the filling choices . Like any other ingredient pairing , you can evaluate the characteristics and choose things to complement each other . So if you pick your bread first , evaluate if it 's rich or mild , savoury or sweet , dense or light , crusty or soft , thin or thick , etc , and then choose fillings to complement those properties . For your fillings , there 's not only the flavour pairing of the filling and the bread to consider , but also the texture/properties of the filling . A dry filling might not be as pleasant on a dense bread because the texture would be too much the same . Similarly , a saucy filling needs an appropriate bread selection to contain it and make it easy to eat . Many pairings that are considered standard will just taste " good " to us because of tradition and familiarity , but originally , someone probably put them together for a reason . That does n't mean it 's not worth trying something different , though . With the globalization of cuisine , we have many more filling/bread choices available and you might find a new favourite by pairing a bread from one culture with a filling from another , based on their complementary qualities .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
Firstly - shop-bought " packet " bread will keep for several days because it contains a lot of preservatives . In his excellent book Bread Matters , Andrew Whitley claims that home-made sourdough breads with very long rises have better keeping properties than home-made bread made with baker 's yeast and short rises . This , he claims , is because the sourdough yeast cultivates a culture of friendly bacteria and an acid environment , all of which become natural preservatives . My experience seems to confirm this . Bread recipes containing egg , oil or milk tend to keep for longer than those without . As @SAJ14SAJ says , bread freezes very well . Loss of flavour in the freezer is not a commonly recognised phenomenon . One option is to slice a loaf of bread , bag it and freeze it . Take as many slices as you need at a time . It will defrost very quickly at room temperature , due to its low mass and high surface area . Another option is to make rolls , part-bake , and freeze . When you need them , take as many rolls as you need from the freezer , and place in the oven , to both defrost and complete the baking . You will get fresh baking smells and flavours from this . I suspect that home-made unleavened breads ( pita , chapati , tortilla ) , without added preservatives , will not last long out of the freezer . Their advantage is that with no rise , they are so quick to make that they can be made fresh on-demand .
Yes . It may be fine for immediate consumption . The problem is the air flow from the drying itself can also accelerate the oxidation of the fat . When I have dried fatty meat the fat already tasted a bit off . This is a matter of quality , not safety . If the fat is n't objectionable to you after drying then it is fine . As you said , you should expect the fat to go off and eat it soon .
The discolored surface is a product of oxidation , the same thing that happens when you leave apple slices in the open air . Oxigen is a highly reactive molecule and it binds to anything it can find , in this case your steak . It is not rotten or unsafe to eat in any way , it just has an unpleasant color/texture when raw . Meat packaging is often filled with carbon dioxide , and since the oxygen is already binded to carbon it no longer reacts with the steak . The side effect of this is that your steak could have gone bad , but it still looks good . The pad just collects any fluid that might drip off the steak , again for aesthetic purposes . I 'd suggest to remove the wax paper and shrinkwrap it , this will prevent it from oxidizing .
I have n't seen your recipe , but from looking at others , steamed pudding takes on the order of a couple hours of steaming . Doing it in the oven wo n't be any faster or less boring than steaming it - it may even be slower , since heat transfer from steam is pretty efficient . 45 minutes at 120 ° C would probably leave it undercooked , and if you cook at a higher temperature , you 'll be missing the point - steaming for a long time lets it cook slowly and more evenly . You could work out how to cook it hotter and faster , but it would n't be a steamed pudding anymore , it 'd be a " normal " pudding . If you want to do it in the oven , you should use a water bath to keep it from getting too hot - put the vessel with the pudding into a larger vessel , and add water to come most of the way up the sides of the pudding . Then you can increase the temperature of the oven , perhaps to 150-175 ° C , without overheating the pudding . But I doubt you 'll be able to get the cooking time very much less than the original cooking time with steam without significantly changing the results . Finally ( thanks Elendil ) , steaming helps keep the pudding moist , and an oven even with a water bath is not a terribly humid environment , so it might still be drier than desired . Covering tightly , and possibly adding a tiny bit more liquid , might help with that .
I look for a few things ... Colour : There are many different varieties of mangos . Some go from green to red , some end up Orange , some start off yellow and end up orange . So once you 're familiar with the type of mango you 're buying , you can get an idea of what a ripe one looks like . Smell : A ripe mango will smell sweet . Check near the stem end , the smell should be stronger there . You should smell it and think " mango " . Smell is a large part of your taste , so it should be very familiar . Firmness : Mangos , like peaches will soften as they ripen . Just as it starts to go from firm to soft , it is just about ripe . Weight : With most fruit you can tell their ripeness by their weight . A riper fruit will be slightly heavier than an unripe one . As an aside , if you 're at a grocery store , and you see a few different types of mangos , look for these Ataulfo mangos : <URL> . They 're my personal favourite . The flavour is richer , and they are a lot less stringy . Finally , DO NOT refrigerate if you want them to ripen . <URL> ( There is also some generic mango info there )
end question
start question
How to store Soda Water or other Home Made Sodas ?
More sodastream bottles is the best option if you are starting from a sodastream . The best other alternative is to act just like a really old-fashioned soda counter . Mix and store your syrups/flavors . Measure syrup into the glass . Add plain soda-water and mix . Thus , your sodastream bottle only ever has plain carbonated water in it , not a specific flavor .
More sodastream bottles is the best option if you are starting from a sodastream . The best other alternative is to act just like a really old-fashioned soda counter . Mix and store your syrups/flavors . Measure syrup into the glass . Add plain soda-water and mix . Thus , your sodastream bottle only ever has plain carbonated water in it , not a specific flavor .
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
When you want to freeze things so that they do n't stick together , you need to freeze them separately and then combine later . So , for example , if you 're freezing blueberries , you can freeze them on a cookie sheet and then combine them in one bag or container . For chicken , I would n't advise freezing the pieces uncovered ( as you do for blueberries ) . Instead , I would package the pieces in containers that only hold one meal 's worth . You can always defrost more than one package if necessary . This could be a plastic container or wrapped individually in plastic wrap or aluminum foil , or even a zippered plastic bag . Any of these would allow you to unwrap individually and defrost .
With a gratin , the idea is that the vegetables ( traditionally just potatoes ) are sliced so thinly that they cook very easily in the cream/cooking liquid while retaining some texture . If you pre-cook the vegetables , they will just disintegrate into a mush during baking .
Yes , you should store them in a air-tight jar , and the best is to store the jar in a cool place in the house . The fridge is to moist for storing cupcakes . You can store them in the jar for about 3-4 days , but they wo n't taste fresh any more . So I would suggest if you want to store them longer then 1 or maybe 2 days , freeze them right after they cooled down from baking . If you use a topping , you can top your cupcakes when they are thawed .
Always hot smoke pork . Unless you know what you 're doing . In which case you 'd know that . Look at <URL> for ideas on how to make a cheap home smoker that will work for you . In general , you need : a heat source ( hot plate works well ) container for wood chips/sawdust ( skillet works and helps modulate and spread heat ) housing ( any kind of box thing : cardboard , wood , ceramic , an existing grill ... it just needs to seal and maintain a bit of heat ) a rack for the food to be smoked ( or you could use rope and hang food as in smoke houses ) thermometer ( poke it into the top or the side to keep an eye on things ) Put it all together , put the sawdust into the skillet , turn it on , and adjust for desired temperature . I 'd recommend 200-250 for pork . You may also want to put a second hotplate in with boiling water , or splash a bit of water in the smoke pan on occasion to keep the inside moist when smoking for long periods . Before smoking anything , brine it and let it sit uncovered in the fridge for a day . This allows the surface protein to dry , and this helps to develop the smoke flavor .
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
Almost all bread is best eaten on the day it is prepared , whether leavened with baking soda or with yeast . ( Exceptions might be some whole-grain dense breads with strong flavors that " settle " and improve after a day or so . ) Fermentation time does in fact have a small impact on how fast bread goes stale , though . Staling generally encompasses two things : ( 1 ) degradation of the crust by excess moisture migrating from the interior of the loaf , and ( 2 ) hardening of the crumb due to recrystallization of certain starches . The first aspect is n't that significant in soda bread , since its moisture content is high and its rising power ( compared to yeasted bread ) is relatively low , so it rarely develops the kind of crackly crust you might find on a French baguette . In that respect , soda bread 's crust wo n't degrade noticeably faster than , say , a typical moist yeasted sandwich bread . The second aspect might make soda bread more likely to stale faster . A long fermentation allows time for various enzymes to do some work in breaking down some starches in the bread and converting them to sugar . If the starch content in the final bread is lower , staling will be reduced somewhat . For example , amylase enzymes are naturally part of yeast fermentation and will break down starches , though sometimes they are added to improve bread texture and shelf life . ( Home bakers often use amylase in the form of barley malt . ) Is this effect significant , though , assuming you do n't add enzymes to your bread dough during fermentation ? I 'd guess that it probably only becomes significant for yeasted breads with long fermentation times , including those that use preferments or sourdough starters , or where fermentation takes place overnight in the refrigerator or something . The long fermentation will allow time for the natural enzymes to activate and do their work . So , some yeasted breads will have noticeable slower staling due to the process of yeast fermentation . However , if you compared a soda bread recipe vs. a yeasted bread recipe with similar ingredients that is only fermented for a couple of hours , the difference in shelf-life between the two would probably be negligible .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
You definitely want to keep beans whole as long as possible . Ideally , grind just the amount you need right before you brew the coffee . Keep the whole beans airtight , and freezing probably is n't necessary unless you buy a month of beans in advance .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
In the freezer , more-or-less indefinitely , depending on how good your freezer is . Certainly months to years . In the fridge , it depends on the kind of mole . Quick moles ( like various green moles ) do n't keep very long , maybe a week at most . A long-cooked mole should keep a bit longer -- up to 2 weeks -- since all of the ingredients are completely cooked . If you 're not planning to use it within a week , though , why not freeze it ? The texture wo n't take any harm from freezing and thawing .
You should n't have any problem . Bacteria need sufficient water to survive , a few drops wetting the sugar are not sufficient for them . As far as I 'm aware , even old-style jam ( 1 part fruit to 1 part sugar , boil some of the water out ) is shelf-stable . Even if you are close to the limit , it 's still not too concerning . The good news is that , when you preserve something with sugar , and get a bit too low on the sugar , it 's not bacteria that colonizes it first , it 's mold . The mold can be toxic on its own - but it 's nicely visible . So , as long as you do n't have a sticky mass and see mold growing on it , the sugar should be safe . It can be hard to work with though - we have an old question on getting lumped-together brown sugar out of the container , if you need it .
There are two levels to this question . If you are using modern whipping cream as a starting point , then the trick for a longer lasting whipped cream is stabilization . If this is some farm bought milk you are skimming the cream from , then you have the additional problem that your cream is not fatty enough . Modern creams are concentrated with a centrifuge . To get good whipped cream , whip it cold until it <URL> . Stabilize the whipped cream by hanging it in a cheese cloth in the refrigerator or by adding gelatin.To use the gelatin , dissolve 2 teaspoons of unflavored gelatin into 2 tablespoons of cold water . Work out the lumps . After the gelatin expands , mix in a quarter cup of cream and heat the mixture to dissolve the gelatin . Cool over ice and mix a bit . Complete 2 cups of cream and proceed as you would to finish your whipped cream .
I admit , I 've never attempted making stroop ( apple or otherwise ) on my own ... but some <URL> mentioned that there 's something called ' <URL> ' which sounds like it might be quite similar , based on the description of the end consistency and the amount of sugar used .
Add the baking soda to the cut meat and then wash it off . Measure about a teaspoon in your palm and then sprinkle it over the thinly sliced meat from high up . This way you get a thin layer over all the meat . Wash after some time ( you can do it overnight ) . There is an <URL> that you may follow The baking soda will work like other meat tenderizers , by denaturing the proteins on the surface of the meat , so it should work on pork or chicken as long as the baking soda is on the meat ( and not the skin or fat ) . The tenderizers penetrate the meat very slowly , millimeters per day at refrigerator temperatures , faster at cooking temperatures , so in practice it will only work on thin slices . If you use thicker pieces , you will still change the meat 's surface texture . If you use the baking soda straight into the dish in the same proportion ( some people like it this way ) , adjust your salt accordingly , as the baking soda will make the dish salty .
What I 've done in the past is mist some water on both sides of the bread slices , then put them in the microwave for 10-15 seconds ( alternatively , an oven set at 300F/150C for 5-10 minutes will do it too ) . Experiment with the amount of water ( but keep it low ) and cooking times . You should get much softer ( and warm ) bread slices out of it .
I look for a few things ... Colour : There are many different varieties of mangos . Some go from green to red , some end up Orange , some start off yellow and end up orange . So once you 're familiar with the type of mango you 're buying , you can get an idea of what a ripe one looks like . Smell : A ripe mango will smell sweet . Check near the stem end , the smell should be stronger there . You should smell it and think " mango " . Smell is a large part of your taste , so it should be very familiar . Firmness : Mangos , like peaches will soften as they ripen . Just as it starts to go from firm to soft , it is just about ripe . Weight : With most fruit you can tell their ripeness by their weight . A riper fruit will be slightly heavier than an unripe one . As an aside , if you 're at a grocery store , and you see a few different types of mangos , look for these Ataulfo mangos : <URL> . They 're my personal favourite . The flavour is richer , and they are a lot less stringy . Finally , DO NOT refrigerate if you want them to ripen . <URL> ( There is also some generic mango info there )
Wetted starch is not the same thing as cooked starch . If you want to see the difference in a simple experiment , make two starch slurries , boil one into a pudding , and leave the other one cold . Starch only gelates at high temperatures ( I think it starts around 70 ° C , but needs even more to complete the process ) . When you have a grain of rice , you have the problem that the starch is very closely packed together , and water ca n't penetrate into the center of the grain too well - the outside layers soak all the water they come in contact with , and so water only seeps into the center of the rice after the outer part has been hydrated . It is similar for pasta . In the worst case , when you cook rice , the time needed for cooking will be enough to heat the whole grain to the gelating temperature , but not enough for the water to hydrate the innermost part of the corn . This is fine if you want hardish-cooked rice , but if you want soft , mushy rice , you should presoak it so the inside is already hydrated when you start cooking it . I suppose you can do the same with pasta . This is the reason why some sources will advice you to presoak . But , as I said , this is not the same as cooking . Yes , the rice or pasta will get soft , so you wo n't break your teeth if you try to eat it . But it will still be raw starch . I do n't know if it is unhealthy to eat raw starch ( my mother certainly told me so , but it could have been a myth ; I asked <URL> and got no conclusive answers ) . But it will probably taste unpleasant , similar to raw potatoes or raw flour . I would try to get other sources of food for this time period . Or , as @justkt 's comment suggests , it is easy to get an electric kettle in a brand new house before the kitchen is installed . You can use it to pour cooking water over " instant " versions of pasta and rice . These have been pregelated and then dehydrated , so do n't need a prologned cooking . They are usually available as instant hot soup or rice meals in sachets and cardboard boxes , I have n't seen them as pure ingredients .
end question
start question
How to prepare an easy and fast snack rich in protein ?
A real quick search brings up a list of high-protein snacks that are easy to make up . <URL> Crispy Lentil Energy Bites ( 8.6 g protein per two bites ) The Best Homemade Granola ( 8 g protein per half-cup ) No-Bake Quinoa Peanut Butter Crunch Cups ( 8 g protein per two cups ) Chocolate Peanut Butter Protein Bars ( 5.8 g protein per bar ) Dark Chocolate Crunchy Coconut Cashew Sesame Bars ( 9.5 g protein per bar ) Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Protein Balls ( 5 g protein per ball ) Protein Muffins with Quinoa , Prunes , Dates and Coconut ( 18.2 g protein per muffin ) Zesty Black Bean Hummus ( 16 g protein per 1/2 - cup serving ) Roasted Chickpeas ( 21 g protein per 1/4 - cup serving ) Portobello Eggs with Sun-Dried Tomatoes and Goat Cheese ( 16.8 g protein per cap ) PBJ Yogurt Bowl ( 22 g protein per serving ) Paleo Cinnamon Raisin Flatbread ( 12.2 g protein per flatbread ) Roasted Edamame , Three Ways ( 15 g protein per cup ) Savory Greek Yogurt Three Ways ( 17 g protein per cup ) Protein " Brookies " ( 7 g protein per cookie ) Follow the link above for photos/recipes Also , some simpler options <URL> Just searching for " high protein snacks " prompts a huge amount of resources to play with .
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
Keep the fats as cold as possible before you start . Done right , it will more than compensate for the warmth of hands , blender/processor parts , and ambient temperature . Having somewhat chilled your choice of fats , separate them into small , 1 inch sized pieces , working with copious flour to keep them from sticking to one another . Place this in the freezer overnight . This allows the blade to chew up even near-frozen bits . I have n't noticed much degradation with this method , though I would n't the leave fats in for much longer than that . Mix your dry ingredients together . Put the thoroughly chilled fats in a blender/mixer , leaving some room . Then , using only as much dry ingredients as necessary , pulse the fats until you have pearls slightly smaller than fish gravel . This works especially good for blenders where the ingredients tend to get stuck at the bottom . If you get the chance , stow the blended stuff in the freezer while you work with the next batch . Once you have completed the blending en masse , you can add the rest of the dry ingredients . You should have a uniform texture to the whole mixture . Add water until the dough comes together with limited kneading . Wrap and return to fridge as soon as possible .
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
In my experience , the most likely impact of a gentle boil vs. a furious rolling boil is going to be on texture of starchy foods , such as potatoes or other root vegetables , rather than flavor . I 've found that a gentle simmer of potatoes will result in a mostly intact shape and consistent texture , whereas an aggressive boil without perfect timing can result in the outer layers of the potato breaking apart , sometimes before the center has time to cook fully . I 've seen similar issues with stuffed parcels of pasta like ravioli or boiled won tons . I 've also found that open pot egg poached eggs have much nicer results with a gentle simmer than an aggressive boil , perhaps for related reasons . Since part of how we experience taste is texture , you could say that the " taste " is affected .
The only trick I know is to let it start to firm up before mixing in the fruit . You can pour a layer , let it slightly firm up ( it 'll be kinda a thick goo ) , add the fruit and the rest of the mix . ... but you do n't want to let it set up completely ; then you 'll just have two layers that have n't bonded well with fruit stuck in there . Exact time for it to gel depends on what temperature you 're resting it , and the size of the container you 're chilling it in ( mostly it 's a matter of surface to mass ratio )
There are many ways to do it , so it is personal choice . Here is a <URL> if you need to know more . Here is how I do it . You are going to need two forks and a knife . STEP 1 Place the prickly pear on a cutting board or a plate using a fork by firmly pushing the fork lengthwise into the skin of the prickly pear STEP 2 With a sharp edge knife , cut of the two end of the prickly pear . STEP 3 Now , cut through the skin lengthwise . The skin is quite thick , so you need to make a deep cut . STEP 4 With the second fork , pull away the skin on one side from the inside of the fruit as far as you can STEP 5 Now , firmly hold the fruit with the second fork by inserting the second fork into flesh of the fruit . STEP 6 Remove the first fork and use that to peel away the rest of the skin from the flesh of the fruit . STEP 7 The inside of the fruit is now free from the skin , so you can remove it . Place it on a clean plate STEP 8 Discard the rests , and properly rinse all the utensils under running water before cleaning the next fruit Other tips : Wearing welding gloves also works well to handle the fruit To remove most of the thorns before hand , hold the fruit lengthwise between your fingers and gently rub the skin over loose sand . Rinse with water afterwards . Be careful when removing the gloves A bottle brush or nail brush can also be used . Wearing gloves , hold the prickly pear in one hand while you scrubbing the skin of the fruit with the bottle brush/nail brush . Rinse under running water . In both of the above cases , you still need to treat the fruit as you normally would as if it would still have thorns on .
The Maggi noodles you link to are just average ramen noodles , so can be cooked in the microwave quite easily . Boil a kettle of water Place the noodles in a microwavable bowl . You may need to break the noodles into pieces , but if you 're careful with the boiling water you can sometimes soften the noodles in the middle enough to fold the block to make it all fit without breaking Pour the flavour sachet ( and any other curry powder/herbs ) onto the dry noodles Pour the boiling water onto the noodles , enough to cover the noodles , and if desired , a bit more for a bit of a soup Put into the microwave , you can cover with a loose lid if desired , and microwave for around 2 minutes Stir the noodles , separating any stuck-together blocks of noodles Put back into the microwave for another 2-3 minutes ( depending on your microwave 's power ) I usually cook these kind in the microwave , since if I 'm eating them I 'm not usually in the mood for a proper cooking session . They do ( depending on the kind of noodle ) sometimes turn out slightly different when done in the microwave , as compared to boiling on hob , but both are nice as a snack .
Stevia leaves are commonly cut , then hung for drying , then either ground up into little flakes and used sparingly in drinks such as teas or recipes . The leaves themselves are also very commonly used unground as garnish in drinks as well as added to recipes . Just remember to compensate accordingly for the extra sweetness they will provide , and you really cant go wrong with some experimentation at first . In terms of a particular recipe I 'm not really sure what to recommend so hopefully this is still helpful .
The official position of the USDA is that all fish must be heated to 145 ° F ( 63 ° C ) , else it is considered undercooked . In practice , most people do n't do it , because fish is terribly overcooked at this temperature , and they seem to mostly live through it without ill effects . With salted fish , there is even less actual risk of foodborne illness . Still , I do n't think that anybody will assume the responsibility to tell you that it is " safe " when the responsible officials say it is n't . You are taking a risk , but none of us can quantify it or tell you if it is justifiable . Food science books often recommend preparing fish at temperatures lower than 63 ° C , but include a disclaimer that this is against food safety guidelines . A lower oven temperature can definitely produce a better result for your problem , because slower , more gradual heating means that you have a lesser heat gradient within the piece of fish . This means that the thin parts will overheat less in the time the center of the thick parts reaches 40 ° . However , this will only alleviate the problem , not eliminate it completely , unless you go for a very low temp cooking method like sous vide . If the lower oven temperature is n't enough for you , you might try other tricks to eliminate the problem , like changing the shape ( e.g. by creating rolls of fish ) .
Worcestershire sauce is fairly sweet , it 's the sugar that 's blackening . There 's nothing you can do about it - if you add it to your pan it 's going to char . The solution is not to put it in the pan , but put it on afterwards or mix it in with the meat before making patties . You 'll get a better result that way as well , you 're destroying the flavor of the worcestershire sauce by charring it in the pan like that .
Speaking in generalizations , without knowing the details of content : Anything with a non-stick coating - I would n't put it in the oven . If you do n't know what the non-stick coating is made of , you ca n't be sure if it will melt . Additionally high temperatures and non-stick coating make for off-gassing . Anything with plastic handles , knobs or any other plastic parts - do n't put it in the oven at any temperature . No way to know how it will react . Cast iron - always oven safe to almost any temp that a non-commercial oven would reach Enameled cast iron ( like Le Crueset ) - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated stainless steel - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated anodized aluminum - I would say no more than 450 ° F ( 230 ° C ) , to be safe Copper - 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Glass - 450 ° F ( 230 ° C )
The best thing I 've figured out about turning eggs is : do not do it too early . You need to wait for the cooked part of the egg to develop a strong texture before it will support its own weight . It 's very difficult to turn a floppy , soft egg , where it 's comparatively easy to flip an egg that has been cooked more completely on one side . I also use a relatively high heat , as this " crisps " the cooked surface . It also makes the egg more attractive . The spatula you use can make a difference , also , though I believe this is minor . The spatula you want is a plastic one with a relatively thin , flexible blade . The really heavy spatulas tend to be too tall , in my experience , and push the egg rather than sneak under it .
To expand on Jolene 's box idea , I 'd recommend : shirt boxes ( talk to a local department store if you 're not planning on buying a bunch of shirts ) pizza boxes ( again , talk to a local store about getting some ... likely get the smallest ones you can , such as if they have ones for a few leftover slices as opposed to for a whole pie ) restaurant takeout containers ( depending on the size of the cookies ... talk to a local chinese carryout or similar ) Some cake and candy supply stores will sell a variety of box sizes as well . I 'd also agree with irwinners in recommending a fan -- I ca n't quantify the exact speedup , as it 's affected by ambient humidity , temperature , airspeed and such , but a box fan near the cookies ( I use it to suck air over the cookies , not blow , as I do n't have a good way to dust the inside of the fan without disassembling it each time ) will help to crust up the icing to make it a little more sturdy .
Not authentic but a rice pudding cooked in coconut milk ( cardamom opt ) and chilled in individual portions is lovely with fresh fruit at the table . I had it served with passionfruit - lovely . Keep portions dainty after a full curry meal !
Cook an egg in the microwave , slow and at low power . It takes about four minutes at 30 % power for two eggs in a round plastic container . It was perfect !
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
Expiration dates on milk are not intended for open containers . Any open milk is only good for 3-5 days . After that , it is not safe for drinking , and taste is not guaranteed either . Many people seem to not know that . Traditionally , you could only buy HTST pasteurized milk , which has 7-10 days of usable time altogether . It spent 2-3 days on its way to the customer , and if a milk opened on day 3 after production went off on day 8 , nobody wondered , because it was on or just before the expiration date . Today , you get also ESL milks and nut milks , which have a much longer life in the closed container . But once you open them , they start acting like any other food - they are only good for 3-5 days in the fridge , no longer . The expiration date does n't matter for open foods .
end question
start question
Knife cleaning : safe to do without soap ?
In order to " Sanitize " any surface you must wash that surface ( in this case , knife blades ) with water at no less than 190 ° F ( ~ 88 ° C ) according to the ( U.S.A ) National Sanitation Foundation ( NSF ) . Earlier this year the <URL> recommended <URL> as an " energy saving measure " citing a study at Ohio University that claims that it is equally effective . Additionally they recommended that the temperature could be reduced to 120 ° F ( ~ 49 ° C ) with ' chemical additives ' ( soap ) . So the question is " How hot is your hot running water ? " According to " <URL> " ( a dubious source at times , but I will accept it for this point ) suggests that most home water heaters produce water at 104 ° F ( ~ 40 ° C ) to 120 ° F ( ~ 49 ° C ) . This would suggest that to sanitize a knife blade something more than ' hot running water ' is necessary . In fact since water over 131 ° F ( ~ 55 ° C ) puts you at risk for scalding ( Wikipedia , Ibid ) and you certainly do n't want a water heater putting out water that hot , I would have to disagree with your source and conclude that in household use soap is required to sanitize your knife blade . note : in order to qualify my answer to the question of " safe " , I have elevated the standard from " clean " to " sanitized " , certainly you may ' clean ' a knife with running water but that level of clean is not what I would consider ' safe ' .
Please see <URL> which gives the very strict FDA guidelines for iced tea as : Iced tea sould be brewed at 195 F for 3-5 minutes . Iced tea should be stored for no longer than 8 hours . The tea brewer , storage dispenser , and faucet should be cleaned daily . while pointing out that " Tea is a beverage with little history of disease transmission . " Applying some common sense , assuming that you : Keep all of your tea equipment " impeccably clean " as Julia Child used to say Do not leave it very long at room temperature Refrigerate it thereafter given that tea does not have a huge number of nutrients to encourage pathogen growth , the risk should be minimal , although non-zero . You must assess your own tolerance for risk , but this is not an activity that is inherently highly dangerous . Finally , please note that modern refrigerators perform very well , and there is minimal heating of the other foods , even if you put a fairly large volume of tea in the refrigerator to cool . See : <URL>
I found this on <URL> and I think it explains it quite well . RAY < > A " 50/50 " usually references an edge . So on the cutting edge , it is an even 50/50 " V " . It can be 50/50 at 12 degrees or 50/50 @ 20 , but each sides angle is equivocal . A double bevel is a knife design created by grinding . So from the spine to the cutting edge , there is a blade face that has been ground ( most of the time ) . It can be a flat grind , a convex grind , a hollow grind , and any of these grinds can be symmetric ( 50/50 ) or asymmetric . So for instance , my Ginsanko Hiromoto Western Deba has an asymmetrical semi convex grind . It has a flat ground left blade face at around 30 % of the total included angle and the right side blade face has a distinctly convex grind that is the other 70 % of the total included angle , but the actual cutting edge has an asymmetry , as well . The actual cutting edge does not look like a " V " as it is , in fact , a 60/40 right-handed bias . It 's a particularly unique blade , but exemplifies your point , quite well . : mrgreen : In short , the numbers like 50/50 or 70/30 represent the percentage of the included angle on each side of the blade . So , for a 50/50 knife with an included angle of 50 ° , it would be ground to a 25 ° edge angle on each side of the blade . See diagram below :
Here 's something useful to know . A good typical salt level for most savory foods is in the neighborhood of 1 % by weight . So if you know how much your dish weighs in grams , then add 1 % of that in salt and you should be very close to a good result . Adjust down if you are using any ingredients that are already salty , like capers . Adjust up if after the first few times you try this , it is a little light for you . You will also learn how much your salt weighs by volume so soon you can just use a measuring spoon or a pinch instead of weighing the salt .
In such a case , for any food item , ask yourself a question : In a 19th century household , would it have been kept in the cellar , or eaten immediately ? For bacon , it is common knowledge ( or at least I think everybody knows it ) that it was kept in a cellar for long time . So this is definitely not a food which perishes too quickly . You can eat it raw . ( In fact , I often do when I need a quick sandwich ) . It can be a bit tough to tear apart with your teeth , so pre-cut it . The reason for this is that bacon is cured meat . There are two reasons not to eat raw meat : taste and food safety . Taste is individual , some people are OK with the taste and eat raw meat as long as they can find a source of meat fresh enough ( think sashimi , carpaccio , steak tartare ) . Food safety is not a problem with bacon . The process of turning pork to bacon includes salt and smoke . Both of these kill bacteria , create an environment which is not hospitable to new colonization ( dry , salty ) , and give the meat a new flavor which is better than the raw meat . If you are now asking yourself why we are bothering with the fridge for bacon and other ex - " cellar foods " at all , there is still a reason . First , most of us do n't have a convenient cellar at 12 ° - 15 ° C , and not only is the bacon 's life shortened if kept at usual kitchen temperatures , it also does n't taste too good . It is just greasy . Second , you seldom get dry bacon at the supermarket ; even if the curing process does n't include brining , bacon is often aged much less than in old times , and then packed in vacuum , so it does n't get really dry on the outside . So bacteria could very well start growing on it outside of the freezer . Inside the freezer , it keeps much longer than raw meat , and is certainly OK for consumption without frying . I guess that the popularity of fried bacon is mainly due to taste reasons .
Mineral oil is your friend As you said , Ana , the biggest enemy of a clean -- and warp-free -- wood cutting board is moisture penetration . The first trick to fight this is to wipe down your cutting board fairly often with mineral oil or other food-safe wood treatment . This helps with cleaning as it prevents liquids and bacteria from penetrating into the wood . It also has the nice effect of helping to keep flavors from embedding and transferring to other foods . Scrape it . Scrape it good . The second trick is to use a sturdy steel scraper to clean the surface as you go , scraping out excess moisture after each round of cutting before it can penetrate too deeply into the wood . This is something you 'll especially want to do with an end-grain cutting block , which is much more absorbent than other grains . Soap &amp; water is ( mostly ) all you need When I 'm done , I usually wash with light soap &amp; hot water on the board , followed by a good hard scrape with the steel scraper , so I have a nice dry , fresh surface for the next use . And store that board on its edge , not flat ! This promotes even drying and prevents warping . It 's science The smart people at America 's Test Kitchen used science n ' stuff and found that <URL> at killing bacteria , though the USDA recommends an application of bleach dilute to really sanitize that bad boy . Maintained board = clean board Notable board maker , Boos , has a good list of <URL> , including these related to cleaning : Periodically ( once every 3-4 weeks , depending upon the use and household conditions ) , apply an even coat of Boos ® Mystery Oil and Boos Block ® Board Cream to all surfaces of your wood cutting board . The Boos ® Mystery Oil acts as a shampoo that contains oils and minerals that penetrates through the wood surface to increase its longevity . Next , you will want to use the Boos Block ® Board Cream , that acts as the conditioner , to seal the top coating of the wood surface . DO NOT allow moisture of any type to stand on the cutting board for long periods of time . Do n't let fresh , wet meats lay on the board longer than necessary . Brine , water and blood contain much moisture , which soaks into the wood , causing the cutting board to expand , the wood to soften , and affects the strength , of the glued joints . Use a good steel scraper or spatula several times a day , as necessary , to keep the cutting surface clean and sanitary . Scraping the surfaces will remove 75 % of the moisture . Do not use a steel brush on the cutting surface of your board . DO NOT cut fish or fowl on the work surface of your cutting board , unless you have thoroughly followed the instructions in step # 1 . The moisture barrier must be intact prior to cutting any type of fish , seafood , or fowl on the work surface of your cutting board . ALWAYS CLEAN THE CUTTING BOARD SURFACE THOROUGHLY AFTER CUTTING FISH OR FOWL ON THE WORK SURFACE . Sanitize cutting board by wiping all surfaces down with mild dish soap and water . Dry throughly . DO NOT wash your wood cutting board with harsh detergents of any type . DO NOT wash your butcher 's tools on your cutting board surface . DO NOT put Boos Block ® wood cutting boards into dishwasher . Happy chopping !
The recipe appears to be close to a standard Summer Pickle recipe . It 's about a 9 % brine with 3.75 % acetic acid , which should effectively discourage human pathogens . It is not a fermented product . They 're meant to be refrigerated for at most a few months , not stored on some dusty basement shelf . Refrigerated properly , I 'd eat them without concern .
all knives should be as sharp as you can get them , really . A dull knife is much more likely to cause an accident and cut you . The duller the knife the more pressure you need to apply in order to cut your food , leading to a higher chance of slipping and hurting yourself
There is one very different issue to be kept in mind - water in a microwave can overheat and " explode " once it is disturbed . Another poster had exactly this problem a short while ago : <URL> So follow the usual precautions , e.g. putting a wooden toothpick or a small , very clean stone ( chemists have them in their labs ) in your vessel . In a pinch , a spoon will do , but not all microwaves handle metal objects well . If you are worried that heating your water in a microwave might not be sufficient to kill all " nasties " , remember that killing bacteria is a function of time and temperature , so you might feel safer if you not only bring your water to a boil , but continue boiling it for another minute or so . I would assume that this is mostly for your psychological benefit , but it certainly wo n't hurt . The temperature reached is identical for different heating devices as physics dictates the boiling point of water and it ca n't exceed that as long as it 's liquid .
On another couple of sites ( <URL> for starters ) I found the answer to this . It appears that mould is expected sometimes in the Pancetta making process and as a general rule of thumb as long as it is n't too green and furry then it should be OK . I 've followed Ruhlman 's advice and dabbed the spots of mould with a vinegar soaked cloth and it wiped straight off and looks fine . My meat was coming up to the end of it 's hanging time anyway so rather than worry about it further I 've refrigerated it . I hope this helps anyone that stumbles across this with the same issue .
Some cookware are ' cured ' . Mostly cast iron pots and pans . I never heard of a pizza stone being cured , so I 'm guessing this is to avoid eating soap . Other than that , I would n't know . Cast iron gets cured for two reasons : 1 . Create a non-stick layer 2 . Avoid oxidation . Neither of these reasons apply to stones ( or do they ? )
Breathe through your mouth . The tear-causing chemicals in onions are absorbed through the nasal mucous membrane . By breathing through your mouth , they do n't get much contact with the fumes and wo n't absorb nearly as much .
Of course you can store them in the fridge . When things start to smell bad , you should toss it . From what I remember off hand , every pancake or cornbread batter recipe I 've read says about a week is safe .
the wire egg slicers seem to be free of this problem . Perhaps you could use a wire , or better yet the wire cutting tool that potters use for clay .
The shells are not used in making peanut butter . You would need to shell these peanuts ( and remove the papery skins from the individual peanuts ) before grinding them to make the peanut butter . It does n't matter whether they are roasted in the shell or not -- what matters is that they are roasted , to give the deeper , richer flavor . I have to assume your peanut vendor did not mislead you , and therefore the peanuts you bought are already roasted . You would just shell them and grind them . Note : if they are roasted , they will be somewhat crunchy , with a toasty complex aroma , and light medium beige to brown color , whereas raw ( or " green " ) peanuts will be closer to very pale yellowish beige , like unfinished lumber . Due to the large number of peanuts that may be used in making a reasonable quality of peanut butter , and the inconvenience of shelling those peanuts , one might choose to purchase already shelled , roasted , preferably unsalted peanuts for the purpose . Edit : in response to the second question , I defer to the mighty <URL> whose recipe indicates to roast peanuts at 350 F for 30-35 minutes . Since he does n't give us a test or indicator to know when they are done , and a careful and meticulous recipe writer such as Brown would not omit this if one exists , I infer no good test for doneness of the in-shell peanuts exists . However , since the individual peanuts within the shells are very uniform in size , the time and temperature guideline is likely to be quite effective . You should almost certainly be smelling roasty peanut aromas as the peanuts close in to being done , but there is no way to describe that . Its like knowing when a cake is done by the aroma -- its certainly possible , but you have to have experience with the recipe to know .
In order to " Sanitize " any surface you must wash that surface ( in this case , knife blades ) with water at no less than 190 ° F ( ~ 88 ° C ) according to the ( U.S.A ) National Sanitation Foundation ( NSF ) . Earlier this year the <URL> recommended <URL> as an " energy saving measure " citing a study at Ohio University that claims that it is equally effective . Additionally they recommended that the temperature could be reduced to 120 ° F ( ~ 49 ° C ) with ' chemical additives ' ( soap ) . So the question is " How hot is your hot running water ? " According to " <URL> " ( a dubious source at times , but I will accept it for this point ) suggests that most home water heaters produce water at 104 ° F ( ~ 40 ° C ) to 120 ° F ( ~ 49 ° C ) . This would suggest that to sanitize a knife blade something more than ' hot running water ' is necessary . In fact since water over 131 ° F ( ~ 55 ° C ) puts you at risk for scalding ( Wikipedia , Ibid ) and you certainly do n't want a water heater putting out water that hot , I would have to disagree with your source and conclude that in household use soap is required to sanitize your knife blade . note : in order to qualify my answer to the question of " safe " , I have elevated the standard from " clean " to " sanitized " , certainly you may ' clean ' a knife with running water but that level of clean is not what I would consider ' safe ' .
Generally speaking you can serve pheasant a little pink , but not as rare as you can duck . This is more a textural thing than a safety thing though , I believe . Pheasant is quite lean so cooking it completely makes it very dry . Cooking any meat anything less than well done is technically ' risky ' ; you have to weigh the risk with having an enjoyable meal . Incidentally , pork is generally considered safe to serve a little ' blushed ' these days , provided it 's from a reputable source .
Do n't take anything that costs much : You may have it taken away from you by border controls . In some parts of the world being able to confiscate nice things is a perk of the job . You want to enter ( or leave ) the country , you part with the knife . It could also be illegal to bring in knives over a certain size Hostels are famous for being rife with theft . Having some nice folding knife just begs for someone to take it Traveling is hard on equipment It does n't really matter anyway : who cares about the knife , anything will do . Ingredients and technique are what matters If I were you I 'd get a cheap , short cooking knife from some hardware store . Also make sure it looks like a cooking knife , you do n't want anything that could be mistaken for a weapon ! If you lose it , or it gets stolen , or broken , or you give it to someone who needs it more than you do then you just buy another cheap knife at a market somewhere . If you have an expensive piece of equipment it 's just another worry .
Poor honing on a blade that was already in true can reduce the sharpness , as you have discovered . This happens if your angle is off , and you knock the edge of the microscopic burrs or teeth over , presenting a duller cutting surface . It is likely that proper honing will correct this , although it may never be quite as perfect as the blade fresh from the whetstone or factory . In any case , you will not do any permanent harm to your blade with a honing steel ( short of using it as a bludgeon ) , because absolute worst case , you can always have your knife resharpened , or do it yourself . This may be somewhat inconvenient or costly , but is much less expensive than replacing a blade .
Cultured milk products rarely become unsafe . Yogurt in particular is so acidic and teeming with bacteria already that it ca n't really go bad per se . It will get moldy as others have said . I culture my own buttermilk , yogurt , kefir , cheese , etc. . Many times they stay on the counter for days at a time . They get more and more sour ( if they are the kind that incubate at room temperature ) but they ca n't really go bad . Even sour cream does n't become dangerous - the mold just tastes bad . To second what kajaco said : if I do have cultured dairy get too sour or moldy I will wipe off the mold and bake something with it . It should be noted that non-cultured milk is completely different . Of course it goes bad fast but after even a short time it is too bad to bake with . And never ever EVER use old milk to culture your own yogurt or cheese . The bad bacteria will overwhelm the good and you will end up with liquid that will haunt you in your nightmares ! -- Edit -- <URL> I did some research and it seems that they can eventually go bad . It does n't fit my experience but I 'll defer to the scientists . Trust your nose .
end question
start question
Can you use baking powder in a breading ?
When I add a bit of baking powder to the flour breading I use for eggplant , the fried result is a little puffier than without . Frying forces water out of the eggplant into the breading . That along w heat sets off the production of CO2 . The same should happen with your chicken breading .
As a rule , avocado should only be frozen in <URL> . When frozen , it should be placed in an air-tight container ( such as a sealable dish or freezer bag ) with only enough room for expansion as it cools . The variable fat and water content of avocados is not well suited to freezing , and renders the thawed product <URL> , a far cry from the normal texture of avocados . The thawed puree , however , can be used as a sandwich spread , in the creation of dips ( such as guacamole ) , or any recipe where solid pieces of avocado are either not desired or not required . If a dish has avocado cooked into it -- again , non-solid form is preferable -- the freezability of the dish would be dependent on whether or not such a dish is normally freezable ( if not normally containing avocado ) .
Coconut oil has a low smoke point ( 177-204C depending on processing ) . Ghee has a smoke point of 252C . The effect of this is that it will be quite hard to stop the oil burning . But that 's not to say it would be impossible - softening onions and garlic in butter or olive oil is common , and they have lower smoke points still . But the texture from frying at a lower temperature will be quite different . It may also affect the flavour of your spices . In addition , the coconut oil will change the character of your curry significantly . That may not be a bad thing . ( all figures from <URL> )
You can reuse parchment paper several times for your cookies ( it also works for other dry dishes ) , depending on cooking time and temperature , with no problem . Change the paper when it gets dirty , dark and/or brittle as it may crumble beyond this point . I always do so with no difference in the results , saving both on money and waste .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
To my knowledge wasabi paste is just wasabi powder that has had the water added to it by the factory . So if you are looking at paste vs powder I would go powder . The question to me would be to make it a paste before you add it to your ice cream base or to add the powder directly to the ice cream base . I would venture to say you should be just fine adding the powder directly to the ice cream base . Now , for the ugly truth . Pretty much all you wasabi powder sold in the US or Japan for that mater is n't really wasabi ( or contains very little wasabi ) . It is horseradish , that is colored green and has some sort of mustard or turmeric added . And really not what I would want to try in an ice cream . Plus the flavor of the pastes are not like fresh ( even with horseradish ) . If I were doing an ice cream , I would want to stay away from the powder all together . I would visit my local specialty food market or online specialty market and see if I could source real wasabi . But cost might be prohibitive for you as it is very expensive . Next the good news is , there are some powders out there that are actually dried ground wasabi powder such as <URL> . It was most likely something like this that your friend used if she did use a powder . Anyway , I hope this is helpful to you . And good luck .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
Korean chilli is a little different as it has a slight smoky flavour , in addition to being slightly sweet and also quite hot . The actual name of the chilli use in kimchi and for that matter , most Korean dishes is gochugaru ( 고추가루 ) . It comes in a variety of preparations , typically , finely ground , flakes and a paste . You should be able to find this in most good supermarkets or an Asian store . If you ca n't get this , you can still use a good quality chilli powder or possibly , a paste .
Short answer : no , you can not without radically changing the recipe until it is something completely different . See my answer here for more information : <URL>
Yes . The important fat is the one the starch first goes into . The higher temperature reached by fats ( as compared to water or milk ) helps cook the flour , creating flavors . The liquid added later dilutes the mixture into a sauce . The liquid 's fats are not as crucial for the sauce 's thickness as the liquid 's proteins . I think of the cooked butter-flour mixture as a thickner that can be added to milk , broths , and even a saucy dish . The roux thickens way better than just a slurry of flour and a cold liquid . Jack Lang has written <URL> and the science is summarized in chapter 4 of <URL>
Rose petals are edible . If you look for rose petal recipes , you will find many creative uses of them , including rice pudding with roses - so your pudding intuition was correct . During colonial American times they were considered a treat . You can candy rose petals with egg whites and sugar - typical cautions about appropriate raw egg white useage applies . Before using your rose petals in culinary applications , make sure to remember what chemicals you used on them . If they 've been sprayed with pesticides , you do n't want to be eating them .
<URL> list chili powder as : 2 tablespoons paprika 2 teaspoons oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste ( optional ) There are other mixtures , but this one seem basic enough . The " heat " comes from the cayenne pepper . The other spices round out the flavor . So I 'd mix everything but the cayenne pepper and use that mixture to cut your present chili powder .
I wo n't offer any suggestions on what type of herbs you should use in your recipes - that is entirely up to you and what you like . Experiment with different flavors and combinations from a basic base , or there are plenty of recipes freely available on the <URL> for savory breads . The technical answer is , generally dried herbs are preferable when baking because they contribute no moisture to the recipe , and because they generally have lots of time to infuse their flavor into the dough . Fresh herbs are nice ( and it sounds like you have plenty of them available ) but you need to <URL> : Dried herbs have a more concentrated flavor , so you will need to need to use a larger quantity of fresh herbs when substituting them for dried in recipes . The most common rule of thumb seems to be about 3 times the amount of fresh herbs for dried , maybe a bit lower if you 've got really nice and fresh herbs with intense flavor . Certain leafy herbs ( basil , mint ) will retain and contribute some moisture . It 's doubtful that you 'll be using enough in any recipe to throw off its water balance , but beware of using large amounts . if you want a strong flavor for these herbs it 's best to use dried . Also , these items can get really bitter when bruised or otherwise mistreated , and that bitterness will wind up in your bread . Not so tasty . Particular herb flavors will stand up very well to baking , and others will not . I find that some savory flavors like thyme and oregano mellow out when baked but still retain their character . Rosemary will work well in baked goods but has a very intense flavor , so you 'll want to use a bit less than other herbs . Other delicate flavors like mint do n't do well when baked , both because of the bruising problem noted above and because they 're so delicate . Also note that it 's pretty easy , if a little time-intensive , to <URL> , which is a great idea for extended storage .
There 's no rule that you have to drink your wine 24 hours after un-corking it , in fact some wines can taste better after 24 hours . 3 or 4 days is fine in many cases , and some wines are still drinkable a week after opening . This can be extended by refrigerating your wine after opening , white or red , you can get 2 weeks out of a bottle of wine if it 's stored in the fridge . With reds let the glass stand for 10 minutes or so after pouring to get the optimal temperature . 2 weeks out of the fridge and it 's probably vinegar , but if it still takes ok you can cook with it no problem .
Most cured products last 7-10 days in the fridge although you most likely will see a quality drop off before then at around day three or four . You can also freeze the bacon for up to two months and thaw for use to extend the shelf life .
Yes , you can . In professional kitchens , virtually all ovens are convection , and they work just fine . You may need to reduce the heat about 25 degrees .
First off , the blender should not be damaged by the shells ; if it is , it should have been replaced anyway . The mass of the shells is simply not enough to damage the blender in any significant way . I would not , however , recommend eating the product , for a few reasons : You can not be confident that the egg shell has been completely pulverised . At some point , the blades stop chopping the shell , and simply spins it around Whenever using egg shells for presentation , they should be thoroughly cleaned and sterilized , because you do n't know what is coating it . You may very conceivably contract diseases from bacteria on the shell .
Yes , but the trick is not to have the dough in the microwave when it 's on : place the dough into a wide , shallow bowl , and wrap it tightly with plastic wrap . Fill a microwave-safe bowl with water , and float a toothpick or a grain of rice in it . Microwave the water 'til it 's boiling . Place the bowl with the dough above the boiling water ; the water level should not touch the upper bowl . Close the microwave and wait . ( the plastic wrap is n't absolutely necessary ... but it prevents you from steaming the outside of the dough , changing its moisture content ) The toothpick ( or similar ) is necessary , as it prevents the water from heating above its boiling point and spontaneously boiling when you nudge it . .
Yes , those cakes are typically 0.6 ounces , and when substituting you should use one packet of active dry yeast .
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
end question
start question
What are the benefits , if any , of using a pizza stone in a toaster oven ?
In a small toaster oven , using a pizza stone is likely to be a tradeoff : Toasting -- counter-productive , because it will shield the bottom of the bread ( or other item ) from the direct radiative heat from the bottom elements ; you would want to remove the stone for this use . Broiling ( or as it is called in the British parlance if I understand correctly , grilling ) -- Probably not a good idea . In a full sized oven , the stone would be left far enough from the heating elements that it would not be subject to intense radiative heat . In a toaster oven , it might be too close to the elements when the oven is used this way , so might be subject to cracking due to a higher temperature gradient and uneven thermal expansion . General baking -- will require a longer a pre-heating period for the oven/stone to come up to temperature , but once at temperature , will provide a buffering effect for more even heating . Convenience -- in full sized ovens , people often leave the stone in all of the time , and cook on a different rack if they do n't want direct contact with the stone . This may or may not be possible or convenient in a toaster oven , so you may be constantly removing or putting back the stone based on your current use Note that all of the above is just reasoning based on known facts ; I have n't tried a pizza stone in a toaster oven , and would n't do so , as they have a generally low thermal mass . I tend to think of them as tools for toasting and reheating , not for primary cooking , baking , or roasting .
First , fully generically : The main distinction made by The New Food Lover 's Companion ( Fourth edition , 2007 ) is that a " casserole dish " , can be glass , metal , ceramic , or any other heatproof material , while a Dutch oven is usually made of cast iron . Another distinction is that the Dutch oven may be a kettle , which typically implies the presence of an overarching handle from which the entire pot may be hung ( as over a fire ) , while no such option is offered up for their definition of a casserole . This is generally confirmed by the fact that while , yes , both we and the marketplace ( sellers ) seem often to use the terms casserole and Dutch oven interchangeably , whenever the vessel is equipped with an overarching handle retailers seem to avoid referring to it as a casserole . More specifically , when you turn to high end concerns in service to restauranteurs , such as <URL> , there 's no confusion on the matter . Casseroles invariably lack overarching handles and , unlike Dutch ovens , may come in quite small sizes and do n't necessarily require lids . So while Dutch ovens may or may not have overarching handles , they <URL> have lids and are invariably substantial in size . The compiled side-by-side photos below , as extracted from WebstaurantStore , goes to show just how severe the contrast can be between the two items . Second , to the question of browning : Here are a couple of examples which seem to speak for themselves , as far as how well ceramics or ceramic coatings can be expected to perform when baking breads . <URL> offers a Cast-Iron Loaf Pan ( photo below ) about which it says , The specially formulated black matte interior enamel contains traces of quartz , giving it additional heat resistance and a rougher surface resulting in better browning . <URL> also offers a Bread Cloche ( photo below ) , for which it makes the following claim , Duplicating the benefits of baking in a brick oven , the ceramic bread cloche turns out individual loaves with tender , moist interiors and crispy , evenly golden crusts . I 'm sure there exist any number of additional examples of bakeware , each of which possesses similar properties to these . ( The links provide a good deal more information . ) I hope this however is enough to help you take the plunge , so to speak , toward this option if that 's what you 're interested in doing .
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
You are relying on very different forms of heat . Conduction vs Convection vs Radiation <URL> <URL> <URL> What happens when you heat something ? A number of things . Proteins Coagulate Starches Gelatinize Sugars Caramelize Water Evaporates Fats Melt Depending on how you cook it , you 're going to get different forms of each of those at different rates . On a stove , you can avoid too much moisture and fat from leaving your food by cooking it extremely quickly ( in a stir-fry ) . . You ca n't sear something in an oven and you ca n't roast something on the stove . The two are simply not the same , because fundamentally the two are not the same , you are not going to get the same results . It 's really as simple as that . You ca n't take two entirely methods and argue that you get the same results .
Yes , they are most likely to be denatured protein . It is feasible that they also contain some other matter like stray pieces of vegetable , but the bulk should be the protein . When the particles are small enough , they are agitated in the boiling water and become a suspension . When you let them rest , they slowly find their way to the bottom , due to gravity . So , the answer to your other questions is yes and yes . Are you approaching consomme when you filter them out ? Yes , you do . Are you removing flavor ? Also yes . After all , it 's not the water that flavors the stock , it 's what remains in it from the veal . While the pure protein does n't have much flavor by itself , enough stuff tends to stick to it to make it flavorful . Consomme is made clear for presentation purposes and for texture , not for flavor . The loss is slight , but it is a loss , not a gain . It is up to you to decide which stock you prefer , the filtered or unfiltered version , there is no single " best " answer .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
You 're very correct the grinders are pretty pricey . I believe we paid about $ 300 for ours . There are a few good reasons for me to have a grinder . Whether they are good reasons for you is your call . 1 - I can grind whatever I want . Right now I am using hard white wheat . Unbleached , hard , white wheat flour is more expensive than your run-of-the-mill flour and comes in annoyingly small bags . I also grind beans , quinoa , oats , etc. . 2 - I can control the fineness of the grind . This is a minor thing but it is nice for me to be able to experiment with the texture of the product . In practice I usually leave it on the same setting but it is finer than the flour I can purchase . 3 - Wheat flour is very perishable . I go through a fair bit of flour . As much as 200 oz in a heavy week . In order to have enough wheat flour on hand for a couple weeks it would have to live in the freezer . I do n't want to waste that much freezer space . Whole wheat berries last almost indefinitely . 4 - I like the flavor better . It tastes fresher and more nutty . This may be imagined - I have n't done any double blind tests . I should do that . 5 - Cost - I had to do some of the maths as I do n't usually pay a lot of attention to this . King Arthur white wheat flour costs approximately $ 1.00 a lbs . I buy 25lbs bags of bulk white wheat for $ 12 - $ 15 or $ 0.50 - $ 0.60 a pound . If I use around 10 lbs of flour a week ( usually a little less , it varies ) I am saving about $ 5 a week . If you do n't have access to wheat that cheap or do n't make that much bread then of course the savings will be less . As for nutrition - I read all the time that the nutrients in whole wheat flour degrade very quickly . I 'm not a chemist but those results seem plausible to me based on how quickly the flour itself degrades in quality .
Jamie Oliver has previously recommened the use of a simple granite slab as a Pizza stone so provided there are no coatings etc. it is feasible . You will need to be careful to start with though . Granite could shatter under thermal stress or due to trapped water and when it does so , it could do so in an explosive way damaging your cooker . You need to be sure that the board is granite as other stones may not be strong enough under thermal stress . You need to be careful of reconstituted stone as well because this will not necesserily perform the same as natural stone . Make sure that there are no signs of weakness in the board such as cracks or natural weaknesses . Make sure that the stone is thick enough to avoid issues with stress changes as the stone heats up . If you are going to go for it , I would recommend initially do it slowly , start out with the over cold and heat it up to a lowish temperature a leave it for a while , then turn the over off and let it cool . Inspect the stone , check it for cracks or other signs of distress and give it a few light taps . It should ' ring ' . Dull sounds are indiciative of cracks . Then go to a higher temperatures .
The usual purpose of pressure in pressure cookers is that they can heat water to > 100 ° C without it starting to boil , thereby reducing cooking time .
Quite often that look can be from having the temp too high on the oven . A convection oven should always be at least 25 ( and some people will say up to 50 ) degrees cooler than a ' normal ' oven . If you have n't tried it yet , knock down the temp of the oven . We used to call this ' lava tops ' , because basically the outside is baking and setting quickly , and then the insides pop out of the gelatinous surface , and they go in a funny direction ( often the way the fan blows ) . I 'm not saying that is the problem for sure , but if it were me , it would be the first thing I tried to eradicate the problem .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
You 've basically re-invented sous-vide cookery for steak . Steak is about the easiest food to cook sous-vide . You can find a lot of resources describing it on the web , but here 's a few notes 1 ) 170F for 2 hours undoubtedly left your steak very well-done . Not a problem if that 's how you like it , but also not necessary . You can get medium rare by cooking in the 130-135F range for two hours . Cooking sous-vide below 130F ( necessary to get steak rare ) is not recommended for safety reasons , as temperatures that low can encourage the growth of dangerous bacteria . 2 ) With sous-vide , there 's no need to rest a steak after searing it . Resting grilled steaks is necessary to give heat time to move from the outside of the steak to the center , and actually get it cooked to the desired temperature . With sous-vide , you already did that in the water . 3 ) With an impromptu sous-vide setup like yours , you probably do n't want to cook for more than a few hours . You risk your temperature getting too low overnight , and then you 're down in the bacteriologically dangerous ranges . You can get some great effects cooking longer ( I had 24 hour marinated skirt steak last night that was amazing ) , but you should probably do so with powered equipment . There are home sous-vide machines available ( a bit pricy ) or you can build your own . There are dozens of different rigs described on the web . I built mine for about $ 100 . 4 ) Longer cooking times are better for tougher cuts anyway . If you 're just looking to do ribeyes and strips , then two or three hours is fine . 5 ) You can marinade , but obviously not in supermarket bags ( unless the supermarket marinades , e.g. pork tenderloin ) . To do so , you either need to purchase a vacuum sealer ( not too expensive ) , or be clever with drawing air out of ziploc bag and sealing it very tightly .
Yes , you do n't have the edge of a pan in the way when going to flip things , but it also means that you do n't have a mass of metal there to add as a heat sink , which can help dramatically when pre-heating your pans , as they 'll be evenly heated across their bottom more quickly ( at least , compared to something of the same material , such as a cast iron skillet ) More importantly , in my opinion , is that without the sides , you do n't hold in moist air , so when cooking things like hash browns , you can get a better crust on 'em without steaming them .
I do n't remember the exact science behind the potatoes not turning to mush ... I know it was discussed on an episode of America 's Test Kitchen , and they even discussed the amount of vinegar and how it affected the window for cooking times . ( I want to say it was on an episode where they were making an Austrian potato salad ) ... and it 's not specifically vinegar , and not solely potatoes . Acids will stop quite a few items from softening when cooking . I know the list inclues onions ( pre-cook onions before adding acids if you want them to disolve into a sauce ) , potatoes , apples ... I 'm guessing there 's others . For potatoes and apples , most recipes claim it 's to slow down browning . You see it in potato salad , but not mashed potatoes . You 'll see it in apple pies , but not in applesauce ... because they 'll come out lumpy . Matt already mentioned three uses for vingear : as half of a chemical leavener tenderizing / marinades preservation / picking coagulation ( eg , when poaching eggs ) But also : stabalizing eggwhite foams ( might just be a variation of coagulation ? ) denaturing / " cooking " ( eg . in the case of ceviche ; a variation of marinating ? ) flavor ( might not be a ' science case ' ... but sour is one of the primary tastes ; especially helps to balance out fatty dishes ) cleaning / disinfection ( might not be a ' cooking ' use )
The conversion depends on what the recipe says to do for a grill . If the recipe says to preheat the grill to high ( for gas ) or create two beds of charcoal under both halves ( for charcoal ) , then preheat the broiler on your convection toaster oven and broil the food items on a rack set in a pan or on a grill insert . If the recipe has a specific temperature , lower that by 25 degrees and use the convection cycle . If the recipes does n't give a specific temperature but instead suggests indirect grilling ( where one side is higher and the food is on the low side or using a higher rack ) , use a lower temperature in your oven , perhaps 325 , and cook as suggested . That kind of recipe will probably take the most trial and error .
The idea of a " fast " oven comes from the time when wood-burning stoves without temperature gauges were the most common ones in kitchens . A fast oven is anywhere from 400-425 & deg ; F. Conversion to Fahrenheit Very slow ( very low ) oven : 300-325 & deg ; F. Slow ( low ) oven : 325-350 & deg ; F. Moderate ( medium ) oven : 350-375 & deg ; F. Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 375-400 & deg ; F. Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 400-425 & deg ; F. Various " modern " cookbooks that attempt to explain these terms will often give different temperatures , but the degree of difference is n't usually that great ( usually about 25 degrees in either direction ) ; what was a fast oven to one cook may only have been a moderate oven to another . A " pastry , " " bread , " or " bread-baking " oven generally refers to a temperature range of 360-380 & deg ; F. ( Rounded ) Conversion to Celsius Very slow ( very low ) oven : 150-160/170 & deg ; C. Slow ( low ) oven : 160/170 -180 & deg ; C. Moderate ( medium ) oven : 180-190 & deg ; C. Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 190-200 & deg ; C. Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 200-220 & deg ; C. Conversion to Gas Marks Very slow ( very low ) oven : 2-3 Slow ( low ) oven : 3-4 Moderate ( medium ) oven : 4-5 Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 5-6 Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 6-7 <URL> ( For Use with Dutch Ovens and Charcoal ) Slow ( low ) oven : 6-8 briquettes below / 12-16 on lid Moderate ( medium ) oven : 8-10 briquettes below / 16-18 on lid Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 10-12 briquettes below / 18-24 on lid
I actually debated asking a similar question last month , as I managed to set mine on fire the day after Christmas , and based on the new one I got , differences I 've noticed ( mostly features I miss from the old one ; also a few things I 've noticed at my neighbors and mom 's house . Insulated top ; If you frequently run out of space in your kitchen , and need to keep stuff on top of the toaster oven , it comes in handy . ( and some allow the top to open up so you can expose the top so it could be a bread or plate warmer ) Is the rack connected to the door so , when you open the door , the rack pushes out a couple of inches , so you do n't have to reach in to extract things and risk burning yourself ? ( okay , I admit , there 's a few drawbacks to this ; it means the rack is n't easily removable to be cleaned or if you need to pull it all the way out because there 's something that got pushed to the back , and the next item ) Multiple racks or rack heights . The different positions might be useful for the broiler , but the multiple racks really are n't that useful ; things wo n't toast right when they 're blocked by another level , and they do n't tend to cook evenly when in oven mode , either . ( maybe if it 's a convection ... it 's my neighbor 's toaster oven , so I have n't played enough with it ) If you leave both racks in there , then you 've barely got any space in between to grab things out , so you 're risking burning yourself . ( and well , they do n't have that last feature where the rack pops out when you open the door ) Location of the controls ; some are on the side , some are on the bottom . Controls on the bottom are more prone to getting damaged by things getting pushed around on the counter , but I prefer it for a few reasons -- ( 1 ) the toaster oven 's narrower , as there 's no wasted space to the side ; ( 2 ) the door opens higher up ; this means you can have a large plate on the counter without it getting in the way when you want to open the toaster . Convection ; some have it , some do n't . Broiler ; not all can do broil ( top element ) only . Depth of the unit ; some of them bump out so they can fit a round pizza ; if they also have a little bracket so you do n't accidentally push it up against the wall , there 's hardly any space left on the counter . How exposed the elements are ; some of the newer ones have grills over the elements , I have n't had mine long enough to see if that 'll protect it from melted cheese dripping on 'em , which I think was the cause of my toaster fire . Turn-dial vs. brown-ness setting . I do n't know how to explain this one . All of the toaster ovens in the stores I looked in have a dial , where you have to turn the dial past 10 min , then back to the little reference marks for the darkness that you like your toast ; My old one just had a setting at the bottom , you set it to toast , and hit the button . If you wanted to shut it off , you opened the door . Of course , with this style , there was n't a timer on the oven , either . Turn-off-via opening the door : Some do , some stay on . I 'm used to it , but of course , if that 's the only way to shut it off , that also means you have to open the door to shut it off when there 's a fire inside , which means better airflow . ( or unplug it , but when the plug 's on the other side of the toaster , that one 's not a great option , either ) . Electronic controls : I personally view it as something else to break , but they might be able to do something special ; I 've never bought one , myself . Cord length ; only really a problem when you 've got an old kitchen that does n't have a plug every 12 " or whatever the new standards seem to be ; but you really do n't want to plug a toaster into a power strip if you can help it , so if you know you 're going to need to run it 3 ' down the counter , check the cord length . ( and which side it attaches , just in case you 're then going in the wrong direction with it ) Crumb tray . I hear other people use 'em . They 're supposedly important so you do n't catch the thing on fire . Accessories . Some come with a little tray to use ; some of them also have a little insert to turn it into a broiler pan ( so you lift it out of the pan a little bit , so it wo n't stew in whatever drips off ) . And I understand that you need some air flow around the pan , but in my opinion , something 's wrong when the tray that comes with the toaster is 1/2 the area of the rack ; it 's like they were n't even trying , they just tossed in a tray from some other oven . Others come with a little tool so you can pull the rack out so you do n't burn yourself ( which then gets lost or broken and thus sucks ) Size . If you tend to make toast for lots of people at a time , then some of the larger toasters might be worth it ; If you 're single , the 6 or 8 slices of bread at the same time ( but not the size of bread you like ; you can only fit two of those ) toasters might be a bit overkill ) And they now seem to measure themselves by ' size of a pizza I can fit ' , which makes no sense to me , as everyone knows the correct way to size toaster
I do n't think there is any " standard " type of vinegar worlwide . In recipes for French dishes , an unspecified vinegar can be assumed to be a red wine vinegar . Mien seems to have a different opinion , so I 'd say it 's pretty much a cultural issue .
According to Cooking The Roman Way by David Downie , Fettucine Alfredo is a traditional Roman recipe called " pasta del cornuti " ( cuckold 's pasta ) . What either Alfredo Di Lelio III , or Mario Mozzetti , depending on whom you believe , invented in 1914 , was the dramatic tableside preparation of Fettuccine Alfredo , which is what made the dish a hit with visiting Americans in the 20 's and 30 's . The tableside preparation is really what makes Fettuccine Alfredo what it is : the hot pasta is tossed with the butter and cheese in front of the diner , and then served to them immediately . Again , according to Downie , the only ingredients of Fettuccine Alfredo are egg fettuccine , lots of butter , lots of Parmegiano-Reggiano , and ( if necessary ) a little salt . Recipes which add cream or milk are Americanized recipes designed to allow restaurants to hold orders of Alfredo for a long time under heat lamps ( and turn it into a gooey pasty mess ) . Italians , from my experience visiting Italy , rarely put cream or milk on pasta ( a real Italian could speak up here ) . Downie has a fun 3-page digression about the ongoing lawsuits between the Roman families who claim to own the name . It 's worth a read . Alan Davidson , predictably , says nothing about Fettuccine Alfredo . The Glorious Pasta of Italy likewise does not cover the dish . Wikipedia supports Downie 's story , except only attributing Di Lelio , and adding the tidbit that Di Lelio apparently called it " Fettuccine al burro " ( fettuccine with butter ) , and the Alfredo name was appended later when it was copied in the USA . Wikipedia also says butter and cheese only , on fettuccine pasta . So , to answer your question and the questions asked in the comments : Fettuccine Alfredo is an Italian dish , if more popular in the USA than in Italy . It is a variation of a traditional Italian dish . In its traditional form , it has only egg pasta , butter , and cheese . The pasta for Alfredo is egg fettuccine .
end question
start question
How to dry royal icing fast ?
To expand on Jolene 's box idea , I 'd recommend : shirt boxes ( talk to a local department store if you 're not planning on buying a bunch of shirts ) pizza boxes ( again , talk to a local store about getting some ... likely get the smallest ones you can , such as if they have ones for a few leftover slices as opposed to for a whole pie ) restaurant takeout containers ( depending on the size of the cookies ... talk to a local chinese carryout or similar ) Some cake and candy supply stores will sell a variety of box sizes as well . I 'd also agree with irwinners in recommending a fan -- I ca n't quantify the exact speedup , as it 's affected by ambient humidity , temperature , airspeed and such , but a box fan near the cookies ( I use it to suck air over the cookies , not blow , as I do n't have a good way to dust the inside of the fan without disassembling it each time ) will help to crust up the icing to make it a little more sturdy .
Let 's assume you just want a little flavor added to a potato salad without too much texture . After swirling the stalks under water and shaking off excess drops , pat with kitchen paper or cloth ( does n't bruise easily ) . Pluck off small clumps of the hairy leaves from the tougher stalk ; this is completely subjective as to how much stalk needs to be eliminated . Chop . The more stalk is removed , the courser/longer the chopping in general is -- up to a cm long . Also , the more dill is added to recipe , the finer it should be chopped ( avoid the feeling of eating grass ) . if a good deal is used , then stir into the mayonnaise first ; if it is just of a garnish quantity , then sprinkle on top of mixed pot salad .
To expand on Jolene 's box idea , I 'd recommend : shirt boxes ( talk to a local department store if you 're not planning on buying a bunch of shirts ) pizza boxes ( again , talk to a local store about getting some ... likely get the smallest ones you can , such as if they have ones for a few leftover slices as opposed to for a whole pie ) restaurant takeout containers ( depending on the size of the cookies ... talk to a local chinese carryout or similar ) Some cake and candy supply stores will sell a variety of box sizes as well . I 'd also agree with irwinners in recommending a fan -- I ca n't quantify the exact speedup , as it 's affected by ambient humidity , temperature , airspeed and such , but a box fan near the cookies ( I use it to suck air over the cookies , not blow , as I do n't have a good way to dust the inside of the fan without disassembling it each time ) will help to crust up the icing to make it a little more sturdy .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
In my experience , the most likely impact of a gentle boil vs. a furious rolling boil is going to be on texture of starchy foods , such as potatoes or other root vegetables , rather than flavor . I 've found that a gentle simmer of potatoes will result in a mostly intact shape and consistent texture , whereas an aggressive boil without perfect timing can result in the outer layers of the potato breaking apart , sometimes before the center has time to cook fully . I 've seen similar issues with stuffed parcels of pasta like ravioli or boiled won tons . I 've also found that open pot egg poached eggs have much nicer results with a gentle simmer than an aggressive boil , perhaps for related reasons . Since part of how we experience taste is texture , you could say that the " taste " is affected .
The <URL> seems to be that any moisture level below 35 % will inhibit growth of the C. Botulinum spores that cause botulism . It 's hard to point to true scientific sources because they tend to be protected , but if you spend a few minutes on Google ( try <URL> ) you 'll see that it is in fact confirmed in several of the scientific journals . I seem to be seeing snippets of references ( which I ca n't view the full text of ) that suggest possible growth at moisture levels as low as 16 % , but <URL> have 6 % moisture or lower , which is way too low for botulism . If you are seriously concerned - perhaps you live in a very humid climate and do n't have air conditioning - then toss a <URL> into the container to be sure that the moisture level stays down . The most popular are those little packets of silica gel ( do n't open them ! ) , but there are many more - see Wikipedia 's <URL> . Honestly though , chances are your flaked garlic is already free of C. Botulinum spores after the dehydrating process , and nothing 's going to grow no matter how you store the dried stuff . The above paragraph is only included for the hyper-paranoid . Powdered/flaked garlic is safe to store at room temperature . If you 're actually storing this garlic in the oil ( it 's not entirely clear from your question ) then that 's another story , and theoretically you 're making it possible for the spores to grow again . So it comes down to a question of whether or not the garlic flakes are already clean . That 's extremely likely to be the case , but not a sure thing , and personally , I do n't know if I 'd chance it ; best to follow the same precautions as those for fresh garlic and soak them in vinegar for 24 hours to kill any spores ( although you might as well use fresh garlic in this case ) .
Just went for it by following directions here : <URL> I will say that " Set aside for 3-5 minutes . The chocolate sets quickly " was very optimistic . Needed to balance roof on supports til chocolate was hard - an hour ! Yes , it cooled quickly but did not become hard til then . Used 50 % dark chocolate ( no milk ) About as tricky in the end as eggless icing but less messy , funnily enough . Seems secure enough now . My gingerbread sections are already absorbing some room moisture so we shall see how the whole thing holds up ...
I was not familiar with advice to pat meat dry , so I asked a chef what was going on . The answer was ... complicated . First , if you 're working with meats that were frozen , you 're going to want to remove any moisture which comes from the freezer ( frozen humidity , which is essentially water ) . For un-marinated meats , you want to be careful how you pat them . The important distinction , in all cases , is not to remove any natural fluids ( blood ) from the meat . This would remove both moisture and flavor , resulting in bland , dry cuts of meat . So , do not press the meat when patting ; this will squeeze moisture out . You should lightly touch/brush the surface , so excess moisture wicks away . That 's it . For marinated meats , it can depend a bit on the marinade , and how much your supposed to keep for flavor . Otherwise , stick with the " remove excess moisture , but nothing else " idea . So , long story short , if paper towels are sticking to the meat , you 're removing too much moisture . Maybe try this the other way around : set a paper towel on your work surface , hold the meat in some tongs , and touch the meat to the towel as you 're putting them on to fry . As to how professional , large scale kitchens do it ; they do n't . They 'll take a large sheet pan , place a drip rack in the pan , and place the steaks on the rack . This allows excess juices to flow off naturally , and everything is easily washable and reusable . If the meat is not cooked quickly after set to dry , you can baste drippings , marinade , or oil onto them just before cooking .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
It is due to a combination of several factor , depending on how the particular sausage was made : Dry cured sausages contain <URL> , a mixture of regular salt and sodium nitrate ( which breaks down into sodium nitrite ) , which prevents the growth of <URL> while the sausage cures . Meat for dry cures sausage is also often frozen to specific temperatures for prescribed periods of time to kill any <URL> which may be present . As the sausage cures , it becomes too dry and concentrated in salt to foster pathogens , as well as too acidic from the action of friendly bacteria , and thus is relatively shelf stable . It may also simply have acid ingredients as part of the initial recipe . Modern cured sausages may also be subjected to irradiation , cooking , or another " kill step " to satisfy the needs of regulatory agencies , according to the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL>
Marinated tofu is essentially a myth perpetrated by well-meaning people who are , in my experience , culturally pretty far removed from cuisines where tofu is heavily used . Tofu is not especially porous , because it 's texturally very similar to a custard . Maybe osmotic pressure will result in a little flavor transfer to a custard , but it 's not the most efficient way to do it . Marinades are pretty rarely used for tofu in Asia in my experience . You 're more likely to see pan sauces or dipping sauces , or occasionally a topping added after cooking . But people in Japan , China , and Korea will generally expect a much fresher , beanier tasting tofu than you 're likely to find in a US supermarket , so there 's not as much of an impulse to cover up the flavor . In the US , thanks to generous expiration dates and a fairly unpicky customer base , a lot of tofu sold in supermarkets is slightly soured and just does n't taste very good . The primary effect of the dry frying technique on the page that you linked to will be to create a bunch of nooks and crannies and irregularities at the surface of the tofu that will make more of the sauce stick to the surface of the tofu , and the reduced water content will make it less likely for the tofu to break apart . The higher surface area may contribute to the perception of more flavor because you 'll have more of whatever salty solution you 've seasoned it with on your tongue . But inside the tofu you wo n't really get much additional flavor . Freeze-dried tofu removes most of the water from tofu and small holes form where water had previously been . When rehydrated and squeezed , you 'll be able to get a lot of a marinade to enter the tofu because there 's plenty of ways to get in there . The side effect is that the texture will be completely transformed into a sort of spongy mass , which can be pleasant on occasion but eventually gets a little tedious , so freeze-dried tofu is eaten only rarely and in small quantities in Japan and most of China . It 's frequently seen in lamb hot pots in China and occasionally in rustic simmered dishes in Japan . You can come close to the texture by actually freezing your tofu and then pouring boiling water over it a few times , but I usually just buy it from my local Japanese market . One form of marinated tofu sometimes seen in China involves very aggressively pressed/weighted tofu that 's been pushed between a muslin-like cloth for an extended period to drain . It 's often soaked or cooked in a soy and sugar solution with various spices , but most of the flavor and color is concentrated near the surface ; only some of the salt really seems to get to the center of that , so it 's often made in fairly thin blocks . I 've seen patted and pan-fried tofu used in Korea and occasionally in Japan , but it was typically not marinated ; it was typically cooked in a little oil until lightly browned and served with a dipping sauce of freshly-grated ginger and soy sauce . Deep-fried tofu also creates more surface area for sauces , especially if dusted with a starch like katakuriko or cornstarch , but it 's also generally only an occasional indulgence in Japan , China , and Korea , and also mostly affects capturing flavor that touches the surface of the tofu . ( I 'm less knowledgable about food as served in Southeast Asia , including Vietnam and Thailand , so I ca n't speak as authoritatively for all countries with a long history of serving tofu ) . I do n't know if it works well , but a Japanese TV show suggested that you can soak tofu in salted water to reduce the tendency for soft tofu to fall apart when stir-frying or braising . I have n't seen enough of a difference to justify regularly applying this technique and I have n't done a side-by-side comparison to be sure that it actually has much of an impact . But based on the guidance from that show , I suspect that if the marinade has any effect on structural integrity of the tofu , it 's due to salt and osmotic pressure .
If you soak your beans in brine ( 3tbsp table salt per gallon of water , or 1.5 % salt by weight ) it 'll help soften the skins by replacing calcium and magnesium ions in the skin . After soaking for 8 -- 24 hours , drain and rinse . ( Source : <URL> , login required ) . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking also mentions this ( p. 488 -- 489 ) and suggests 1 % salt by weight . McGee also mentions that 0.5 % baking soda will further reduce cooking times ( but may lead to unpleasant taste &amp; mouth feel ) . Alternatively , <URL> that dried kombu can be used to similar effect , without needing the soak . Even after brining , taste them when nearly done cooking : you may need to add some salt -- it does n't always penetrate that far into the beans . At least , that 's been my experience . Quick summary : Create 1 -- 1.5 % salt ( by weight ) brine , approx 3tbsp table salt per gallon of water . Sort ( remove rocks , deformed and damaged beans , etc. ) and rinse dried beans . Drain rinse water . Soak rinsed beans in brine for 8 -- 24 hours . Beans will noticeably swell . Drain brine , rinse beans again . Cook beans normally . Towards the end of cooking , season to taste . You want to season towards the end of the cooking because it results in creamier texture and also eating some beans which have n't been heated to boiling for 10 minutes is ill-advised due to phytohaemagglutinin .
Buttercream is pretty simple , start with room temperature butter , beat it until it 's white , slowly add icing sugar , add small amounts of milk as needed to keep the consistency right . For each 1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick ) of butter , use about 1 1/2 cups of icing sugar ( sifted ) and 3 Tbsp of milk . You can do it in a mixer , a food processor , or just use a bowl and a whisk . I used a whisk a few days ago when I realized my large stand mixer is overkill for the small amount of icing I wanted and I found that microwaving the icing for about 10 seconds helped me stir in the sugar when it was getting too thick .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
When you refer to cooking Bulgur wheat , do you boil it in a pot of water ? Admittedly the only thing I have ever done with Bulgur wheat was Tabbouleh , where you just reconstitute the dry Bulgur wheat by pouring boiling water on it and letting it soak that way until it softens and fluffs up real nice &amp; golden with every grain separate from the others . I.e. not sticky or gluey . One time , on bad advice , I bought " cracked wheat " which is , I gather now from Wikipedia , not the same , even though some people think the two are identical . On that occasion , my " Bulgur " wheat did soften but was grayish in color and the individual grains stuck together kind of like oatmeal . Wikipedia says that Bulgur wheat has been parboiled already , so you would n't need to boil it a lot to cook it , but merely re-hydrate with just the right amount of boiling water . So ... if possibly you are using " cracked wheat " like I did , maybe this info can help with the stickiness problem .
Oil is dry heat because oil contains no water . Wine does . The " moist " in moist heat really means water . In moist heat cooking , water acts as a solvent and actually dissolves much of the solid matter in the food - hence the reason why steaming and boiling tend to make food rather soft or even soggy . Oil , on the other hand , is very rarely a solvent . There are certain food compounds that are fat-soluble , but most are water-soluble and oil , being <URL> , actually blocks any contact with water , thus preventing any dissolution , and generally making the food crispier as well as promoting the <URL> ( which can only occur with dry heat , due to the low boiling point of water ) . It may seem counterintuitive , but oil is n't wet . It just looks that way .
I go into a lot of detail regarding steakhouse quality steaks in <URL> . Excerpt : Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged . The finest steakhouses dry age their beef . The difference ? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat ( as in a whole side of cow ) and refrigerating it for about a week . After that , it 's cut smaller and sold to stores . Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process . Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator . Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate , which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef . The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away . After the aging is complete you 're left with 75-80 % of the meat you started with . This commands a premium price . Please note that the dry aging happens long before you purchase the steak . The entire cow is dry aged before it is even cut . You can not truly , safely dry-age steaks in your home . There are refrigerator aging approximations , but they are just that , approximations .
I am going to get " unsciency " as I used to make fries for hours on end at a local mom and pop shop . How thin / thick does n't really matter , you 'll just have to adjust your frying time accordingly . 1 ) Use a starchy potato 2 ) slice your potato evenly , with a peeler if you do n't have a slicer or mandolin 3 ) soak them in water for 30 mins with a pinch of salt 4 ) let them dry a bit 5 ) blanch them with vegetable oil until they are limpy but has no visible color change ( Oil should be hot enough that when you put them in , 5 seconds later there are bubbles ) 6 ) cool them completely , I throw them into a container into the fridge 7 ) refried them by putting in enough pieces in such that it will still bubble immediately ( oil should be hot enough when you drop a spot of water or chop sticks in that it bubble immediately , but you would n't hear like a crackling or have oil splashing at you ) 8 ) Take them out one piece at a time as they change color . The key is vegetable that 's pretty much the only oil that makes things cripsy at lower frying temperature , other than bacon fat , this makes a much more golden chip , and generally a easier time to control , so you can make more at the same time . Shortening , olive oil , peanut oil , butter , lard has been tested and is n't really good . Sesame oil is good too if you like the taste of it . Also , do n't attempt to drain the oil after blanching , the oil will come out when you re-fry them . Salt or season while warm .
I like the method of wrapping it in a damp paper towel and zapping it in the microwave for 10-20 seconds . This should moisten it up just enough to allow you to split and scrape . This article mentions that method as well as soaking very briefly in hot water : <URL>
Your ribs will have a lot less flavor if you do not use a dry rub . However you can minimize some of the time ( and only a bit of the flavor ) by putting on the rub , wrapping in foil , and immediately putting them in the oven or on the grill . The process of putting your rub together probably takes only about 5 minutes - it 's the fridge time that takes a while . Sitting in the fridge allows some of the flavors to permeate , and if you used a more permeable material could allow your ribs to air out a bit . These are good things , but for my rib recipe I do n't put the ribs in the fridge and they still taste great . I also do n't put the barbecue sauce on until about the last 20 minutes of oven time , when the foil comes off and the sauce goes on . Until then the ribs stay in the foil . I looked up North Carolina ( which uses a sauce that is n't tomato based in the eastern part of the state ) , South Carolina ( a mustard sauce ) , Texas , Memphis ( which uses no sauce ) , Kansas City ( tomato based-sauce that is rather sweet ) - all of them used a dry rub even with wide variations on the sauce and for both beef and pork ribs .
end question
start question
Can you freeze almond paste ?
A basic Google search hit on numerous sites all which agree that almond paste can be frozen with no deterioration of the product . The key is to wrap it up in several layers of plastic bags or plastic , then aluminum foil to keep out other flavors from the freezer as my experience has been that ground nuts will absorb odors if improperly wrapped . Once in the freezer , hopefully in manageable-sized packages for easy thaw and use , the almond paste should keep for several months at least . I 've stored ground almonds in the freezer for a year with no harm to the flavor . Best of luck !
A basic Google search hit on numerous sites all which agree that almond paste can be frozen with no deterioration of the product . The key is to wrap it up in several layers of plastic bags or plastic , then aluminum foil to keep out other flavors from the freezer as my experience has been that ground nuts will absorb odors if improperly wrapped . Once in the freezer , hopefully in manageable-sized packages for easy thaw and use , the almond paste should keep for several months at least . I 've stored ground almonds in the freezer for a year with no harm to the flavor . Best of luck !
In most cases , curdling occurs because proteins in the sauce are denatured and bind up with each other forming clumps . In cooking , proteins are denatured by excessive heat , acid , salt , or enzymes . Heat and acid are the usual culprits for me . For example , when making a hollandaise sauce - the egg yolks are slowly cooked to allow them to set . In most recipes the lemon juice is added later . If the sauce is heated too abruptly or too high then the egg proteins will curdle . To prevent curdling you have a few options - Do n't expose the sauce to as much heat . Be careful to not overcook egg rich sauces . If possible add the protein rich ingredient later in the process - for example adding yogurt to a sauce just before serving . Heat the sauce gently . Heating too fast will also make proteins denature . Many sauces are cooked in a double boiler - not to keep the sauce from overheating but to ensure that it heats gently . Do n't expose the proteins to too much salt or acid . Dropping a couple tablespoons of lemon juice into warm milk is a recipe for paneer not sauce . Take out some insurance . Proteins bind with each other after denaturing when there are a large quantity of similar molecules all together . One solution then is to introduce a lot of dissimilar molecules that will interfere with the protein 's ability to bind to itself . Common candidates for this are starch or fat . It is difficult ( but not impossible ) to curdle the milk protein in cream based sauces with just heat because the high concentration of milk fat gets in the way . This is why reduction sauces can add cream to a very hot liquid and let it reduce . However , adding acid and heat can still be enough to curdle so be careful if your reduction sauce is very acidic . Many otherwise fragile sauce recipes will call for a little bit of corn starch as an insurance policy . In the related question that you posted - yogurt sauces are particularly susceptible to this because low-fat yogurt is very high in protein and low in fat , and starch .
You can absolutely freeze marinated meat - defrost in the refrigerator , and it will continue to marinate as it defrosts . I find that it usually takes about a day to defrost chicken breasts in the fridge . The meat is more of a concern than the type of marinade when it comes to freezing . Most marinades should be fine to freeze . However , if you 're starting off with meat that was frozen , you may not want to refreeze it . There are a couple reasons for this : 1 ) If the meat was frozen and NOT kept refrigerated ( i.e. , defrosted on the countertop or in the microwave ) , there 's a chance that bacteria could start to grow in the meat , and freezing it again wo n't kill the bacteria . This is n't a problem if your meat is refrigerated and kept in an airtight container . The USDA has a quick guide on freezing , defrosting and refreezing <URL> . 2 ) Texture may be affected if you refreeze meat . Most meat dries out a little in the process of freezing and defrosting , so doing this multiple times will probably affect the texture . When the ice crystals form in the meat , they burst cells , which then lose juice when the meat is defrosted . The result is often mushier , less juicy meat . As a less scientific reason , the Food Network has recipes where they say you can <URL> . Sometimes , if it 's good enough for the Food Network , it 's good enough for me ... :)
Freezing and thawing the prepared custard will likely result in an undesirable texture . However , you can successfully freeze just the egg yolks . <URL> The gelation property of egg yolk causes it to thicken or gel when frozen , so you need to give yolks special treatment . If you freeze them as they are , egg yolks will eventually become so gelatinous that they will be almost impossible to use in a recipe . To help retard this gelation , beat in either 1/8 teaspoon salt or 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar or corn syrup per 1/4 cup of egg yolks ( about 4 yolks ) . Label the container with the number of yolks , the date , and whether you 've added salt ( for main dishes ) or sweetener ( for baking or desserts ) . Curiously , in the United States , soft ice cream is sometimes called Frozen Custard . As @Jolenealaska points out , you could make that instead , though it 's probably quite different than what you have in mind . <URL>
The change in flavor is mainly affected by packaging and how long before it gets frozen . Packaging : If you have vacuum sealed chicken it will last quite a while . It wo n't get freezer burnt , dry out or pick up flavors from other freezer occupants . I would say properly packaged will last months to a year range depending on your taste buds . Time before freezing : I have a habit of buying meat to cook right away , but end up freezing it raw several days after the fact . I then see it a week or two later and pull it out to cook . It never tastes as good as when I freeze it immediately .
That 's perfectly fine , assuming the meats were cooked properly originally . If you look up people doing bento lunches , they use freezer staples a lot ; often , if the item is small enough , it can be packed in a lunch still frozen and be defrosted by lunchtime . However , if you 're talking about a whole steak or chicken breast , you 'll want to stick it in the fridge overnight to let it defrost first .
I think it 's because freezing tend to dry things out . At lukewarm temperature , it 's still ' steaming ' a bit , which means evaporating liquid , so losing moist . If you can stop the drying out process at that point , the pastry wo n't be as dry as when you let it cool completely . Of course , a too high temperature can do harm to already frozen things , or would cause condensation in the package , so that there would be ice formed . This could be the reason , and therefore , the statement can be true .
Worked fine for us ; we used to cottage with people who did n't want to shop very often , had lots of kids and a big freezer out back . We would buy lots of milk and freeze it just fine . Do let it defrost completely before trying to use it . We never noticed any separation , nor problems with expansion - do be aware of the container the milk is actually in , and if there is room in there for freezing to occur . FYI - this specific experience was in Canada , and milk up here comes in bags that we then place into a pitcher-like contraption to use . Your specific container may or may not have enough space .
Depends on the type of cabbage , but I 've had success with prepping as if I was about to boil , and then freeze on a dry cloth ; Once frozen , transfer to an air tight freezer bag , and use as fast as is practical .
Basically , you can refreeze the raspberries . When a fruit or veg . is frozen , the water inside the plant cell expands , and bursts the cell wall , which is why there is so much ' juice ' when you thaw . If you refreeze , you can be sure that the raspberries will freeze into a giant block . If you are using them to make a sauce or a jam , this is not significant . That being said , if you are using frozen raspberries in the first place , you are obviously not looking for a perfectly intact raspberry , you are using them for some other purpose . Therefor , refreezing is no big deal . I recently answered another question about freezing and refreezing , and how it is basically a myth that it renders the refrozen product inedible . Any time you freeze you know that you are not going to get ' exactly ' the same product when you thaw it , and the same goes with refreezing , there is always a ' slight ' degredation of the product with each successive freeze ( do you like my liberal usage of quotes ? ) You wo n't poison yourself or anything like that , you should have no worries . That being said , what are you doing with the berries ? Certainly a refrozen raspberry should be no worse that a raspberry frozen once .
Recipe complexity is certainly a factor ( as the other answers mention ) , but there 's possibly a bigger reason : masalas often contain a very large number of spices that most western home cooks do n't frequently use . While some people ( generally more adventurous cooks ) are willing to purchase a dozen or two spices and make good use of them , that 's a bit much to expect of most home cooks . And if you do n't use the spices much , you 'd end up spending quite a bit on spices , and not even use them all before they go stale . A lot more people will be willing to make a recipe if they can just buy a jar of premade garam masala and be done with it .
Pineapple contains <URL> , which is " one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing . " Since it 's sold as a meat tenderizer , I 'd say it really just depends on how long you marinate with it -- it 's possible to over-tenderize something . <URL> warns about over marinating , and mentions recommended times : The same process that tenderizes steak can also break it down into mush if you marinate it too long in the pineapple , and it 'll start distorting the meat 's color and taste . For cuts thinner than 1 inch , stick to about 10 to 15 minutes of soak time ; for moderately thick steaks of 1 to 1 1/2 inches , marinate for roughly 15 to 20 minutes ; and for thicker steaks , marinate for about 30 minutes .
you know better than I do , it depends on the orange and type of orange . My mom , an executive chef , used to say that you 'd allow 1-2 lb of oranges for 1 drinkable cup of orange juice . I really think , that it 's highly dependent on the type of orange . I know naval and blood oranges are the juiciest compared to other varieties .
The only difference between the two is that puree has a little more liquid . You should add more puree than the recipe calls for paste to compensate for it being more dilute . In some recipes , the extra liquid could be a problem , however , I do n't think it will make any difference in pad thai in the quantities that it is used .
Yes , you can freeze either the wrappers or the pre-made rolls and they will work fine . The wrappers I buy are typically frozen .
In general you need to consider the purpose of the ingredient , and what would happen to it during the cooking that it 's missed . For example , there 's no point stirring a spoonful of flour into a sauce after cooking , since the flour needs heat in order to thicken the sauce . In the case of the tomato paste , not much will happen to that particular ingredient during cooking . It may have caramelised a little , depending on the cooking method . It would have infused more deeply into some of the other ingredients . But these are subtle things . Taste your finished product . If you feel it would benefit from an extra boost of tomato flavour , by all means stir in some tomato paste .
You can freeze roux and store it up to 6 months without any problems . I put them in plastic ice-tray forms until they are frozen , then move them to a refrigerator bag . Just keep following things in mind : Leave a bit of room in the container before putting it in the freezer - roux expands when freezing . Bring it to room temperature before using it .
So I waited about 3 weeks because I was on vacation since I put my loaf in the freezer . Some notes on the dough structure The dough was fully proofed , but that meant that the structure very much resembled a cracker . It would be stiff until you broke into it , at which point it would break &amp; collapse into itself irreparably <URL> The dough was frozen into the container , so I waited about 1.5 hours for it to thaw out . That meant that the core of the dough was frozen while the outside was thawed <URL> Fortunately , the thawed dough was still just as moist as it had been went into the freezer I could not score the loaf because the interior was too frozen . The loaf therefore came out without any perforations in the top . This , along with the frozen interior , likely severely limited oven spring . I expected the non-frozen version of this loaf to have double the volume . <URL> The flavor is pretty bland , unfortunately . Overall , would not recommend unless in an emergency !
I grew up in a fishing village and making shrimp paste is one thing we do for a living . The good manufacturing practices we observe keep our shrimp paste in good condition for a year and a half . I do n't even put it in a refrigerator .
end question
start question
How do I get homemade mayonnaise to taste like store bought mayonnaise ?
I have to make both mayonnaise and aioli every day at my job . We sometimes do R&amp;D on off days and we spent quite some time trying to imitate our favorite gourmet mayonnaise . I think that we were successful , here are some tips : Lemon juice comes closer to that crisp tartness that I taste in even cheaper mayonnaise . Try using the juice from lemons , limes , or both and see where that gets you . The store bought brands do n't taste like mustard , but let me emphasize that mustard is vital to getting you closer to that taste . There is a specific " tang " to store bought mayonnaise that does n't come from the acid -- you can get very close to this tang with mustard . I use a good quality dijon when I make mayonnaise and the difference is noticeable . Keep adding dijon in small amounts and observe the change in taste . I end up 2 - 3 tablespoons to my batch . Experiment with fresh garlic and/or garlic and onion powders . Try adding white pepper instead of black pepper and see where that gets you . I add a little water at the end . I find that it tones down some of the intensity of the acid and dijon . Also , you do n't have to add your acid in the beginning . In fact , I almost always add mine after the initial " setting " of the emulsification . It is easier to control the thickness and flavor of my mayo ; I use my acid for my first thinning and then add oil to adjust from there .
Whether or not charcoal tastes different/better is actually a bit of a debate . I 've been a propane griller for years and now I use charcoal not for the taste , but because frankly , I like to play with fire . But lets assume that there is a taste difference , identify where the differences comes from , and how to address them : The smoke from charcoal . This is ( if you 've been using natural lump charcoal ) pretty much just wood smoke . If you 've been using briquettes you 'll also get the smoke of the filler and such , but generally this is n't desirable and we do n't want to replicate it . For smoke on a gas grill - you can use something like <URL> . Fill it with wood chips and place it over a burner , it should start smoking . Vapor from the food drippings hitting the coals , and rising back up to flavor the food . This used to be a big advantage to charcoal , but its largely minimized by new gas grills with ' vapor bars ' . As long as your grill has one of these , you 're in luck . Otherwise , there 's not a good , safe way to replicate it - but odds are you have it . Its a long bar usually running the length of burners . Lighter fluid taste . Another undesirable flavor if you 're doing a particular ( and not good IMO ) kind of charcoal grilling . Frankly , its not one you 're likely to miss . Those are the main tastes and how to replicate them . Nowadays the biggest is definitely # 1 , but it only matters if you doing foods that cook for a significant length of time or are especially ' porous ' . If you 're doing hot dogs and chicken breasts , I would n't bother if smoke . If you 're doing burgers - maybe/probably . If you 're doing thick steaks , thick pork chops , a whole chicken , or anything that 's going on awhile , then creating some smoke is definitely worth it . ( " Liquid smoke " definitely does n't taste like the real thing . )
Charcoal can get to 700 degrees F but in normal use you 're more likely to be in the 500F range . In order to get to the higher end of charcoal 's abilities there are a couple things you can do : Use natural <URL> , not briquettes . Lower the grill grate to within 1 " of the hot coals If 1 &amp; 2 do n't get you enough heat , consider using the Alton Brown <URL> ( Setup starts around the 8 minute mark )
I can not tell you how they do it at that specific location , how your method differs , or what you 're doing wrong . I do n't really even know exactly how you 're brewing your coffee . However , I can tell you how to brew a consistent cup using the best possible practices . Here 's a list of things to consider Grind your coffee immediately ( not the night before ) before brewing Use a Burr Grinder , not a blade grinder . This will ensure that the grounds are of a consistent size , and provides even extraction . There is no reputable coffee shop that uses a blade grinder , and with good reason . Get a Burr grinder . If you do n't want to drop the cash you can get a hand mill for about ~ $ 20-30 . Weight your beans , do not measure them by Volume . Beans from different regions and varieties vary in density , and size . This can really throw off volume measurements . Use filtered water . Most coffee shops will have a filtration system for the entire store to prevent mineral build up in their coffee and espresso machines , as well as providing a better cup of coffee . Learn how coffee hits your palate , and learn how to adjust your brewing variables ( grind size , water/coffee ratio , brew time , temperature ) . Ditch the auto-drip . Learn how to do a manual pourover or press pot . You 'll have much more control over your brewing variables , and be able to pin point the extraction method that fits your palate best . I deeply urge you to try coffee that is n't Starbucks . Starbucks might be a notch above grocery store coffee , but is n't at all interesting ( to put it lightly ) . Try Stumptown , Blue Bottle , Intellegensia , Ruby 's Colorful Coffees . You 'll likely forget about Starbucks soon after trying coffee 's from any of the roasters I listed . Like I said . Starbucks is n't really interesting coffee . Its pretty bland , brewed with a standard auto-drip . If it tastes different it could be for many reasons , such as sitting in a thermos for a long period of time , or the grounds may sit too long after being ground . Typically larger auto-drip machines use a coarser grind because the hopper is larger . This can affect taste . There 's too many variables to nail down how to brew exactly like that starbucks store . In the mean time , I urge you to try more interesting bean varieties . You 're really missing out . For the record , Starbucks main competition ... McDonalds . Give it a read <URL>
Try using a bow style bread knife . It works well because it allows you to put pressure on the opposite side of the loaf . Also , the bow helps you visually line up the slice .
You can use Crisco All-Vegetable Shortening : its is on PETA 's ( People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ) shopping list of baking goods , but can work just as well for frying as lard .
To begin with , you can microwave the tomato before cooking it in the pan ; this will also shorten the cooking time . Doing this , the tomato " grains " will already be hot inside when they begin to cook from the outside in the pan . You 'll still get the external " roasted " feel but with a softer texture . You can compensate for the citric acid , and for the excess of the tomatoes ' own acid , by adding some sugar . In order to hide the metallic taste , add some herbs . Try one leaf of bay laurel ; or a combination of dry herbs like savory , fennel , basil , thyme , and oregano .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
If it 's high quality , store it in the refrigerator in an air-tight container and try to use it as quickly as possible so you can enjoy it while it 's fresh . There are always excuses to use loads of parmesan : cheese plates , pasta dinners , fondue , scones , grilled cheese sandwiches , etc. . It should last for 3-4 months in a sealed container in the fridge . As time goes on it will get drier , but that 's to be expected . If you ca n't eat it in time , consider giving some away to a friend . If you wanted , you could freeze it as well , but I would only use it for baking or melting once thawed as some flavor and a lot of texture will be lost .
Yes , you should store them in a air-tight jar , and the best is to store the jar in a cool place in the house . The fridge is to moist for storing cupcakes . You can store them in the jar for about 3-4 days , but they wo n't taste fresh any more . So I would suggest if you want to store them longer then 1 or maybe 2 days , freeze them right after they cooled down from baking . If you use a topping , you can top your cupcakes when they are thawed .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
To balance acidity , add sugar . It 's how most mayonnaise manages to be acidic enough to prevent bacteria growth ( pH 4.6 or lower ) , while still having a balanced and edible flavor . You might get an edible result with honey , but sugar is more of a neutral flavor , so I would use that first . Using a jigger of Dijon mustard is not beyond the pale , as well ... might help hide the acid , to a lesser extent .
<URL> , at its most basic , is egg yolk and oil , with a little vinegar , whipped into an emulsion . <URL> starts with oil and garlic , and sometimes vinegar or lemon . Some versions ( French-Provençal , apparently ) add egg yolk for an end result close to mayonnaise , but the yolk is not required . <URL> is a cooked sauce made from egg yolk and butter , sometimes flavored with lemon and pepper . I think it must have a much larger ratio of egg yolk to other ingredients in it , since it remains brightly yellow and thick . <URL> is a variation of hollandaise , which uses white wine vinegar to emulsify the egg yolks and butter , and flavors the resulting sauce with shallot , chervil , and tarragon . Like an aioli , it is not defined by the emulsion but by the flavoring agents . Adding terragon and capers , or tarragon and shallots , to a hollandaise ( or other egg-yolk emulsion sauce ) will produce a ' faux-bearnaise ' . The garlic defines the aioli , which is also the only one that can be made without egg yolk . The choice of butter rather than oil makes a hollandaise , and it is cooked as a sauce to set the yolks ( which neither of the others require ) . The yolk and oil combination itself is the central concept of mayonnaise , while it can be flavored , it does n't have to be . The sauces are quite similar , though , and an emulsion of egg yolk with seasonings might be called by any name . The difference between a garlic mayo and a french-style aioli are likely to be pretty subtle . Likewise , a mayo flavored with lemon and pepper will be hard to distinguish from a hollandaise which uses oil - although hollandaise is usually cooked to set it , so the texture may be different . And a aioli with butter will be very similar to a hollandaise with garlic . Adding tarragon and shallot to any of them is likely to produce a bearnaise type sauce . All three recipes are very loose and broadly defined , since they can be tweaked a lot depending on preferences - so it makes it hard to pin down other factors like ingredient ratios that might distinguish the recipes . The sauces that add flavorings or substitute ingredients will tend to be named one or the other based more on recipe origin , familiarity , and marketing rather than any clearly defined difference .
I have to make both mayonnaise and aioli every day at my job . We sometimes do R&amp;D on off days and we spent quite some time trying to imitate our favorite gourmet mayonnaise . I think that we were successful , here are some tips : Lemon juice comes closer to that crisp tartness that I taste in even cheaper mayonnaise . Try using the juice from lemons , limes , or both and see where that gets you . The store bought brands do n't taste like mustard , but let me emphasize that mustard is vital to getting you closer to that taste . There is a specific " tang " to store bought mayonnaise that does n't come from the acid -- you can get very close to this tang with mustard . I use a good quality dijon when I make mayonnaise and the difference is noticeable . Keep adding dijon in small amounts and observe the change in taste . I end up 2 - 3 tablespoons to my batch . Experiment with fresh garlic and/or garlic and onion powders . Try adding white pepper instead of black pepper and see where that gets you . I add a little water at the end . I find that it tones down some of the intensity of the acid and dijon . Also , you do n't have to add your acid in the beginning . In fact , I almost always add mine after the initial " setting " of the emulsification . It is easier to control the thickness and flavor of my mayo ; I use my acid for my first thinning and then add oil to adjust from there .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
This similar ( also has heavy cream ) recipe from epicurious recommends : " Room temperature , up to 3 days ; refrigerated , at least 3 months . " <URL> ... And that conforms to my personal opinion , as well . I would not freeze it .
That 's a really good question . I imagine it was probably stabilized with something that stays solid at high heat , b/c hot cheesecake would be fairly soft . Was it warm all the way through ? My wild guess would be they rewarmed it in the oven , then ( if needed ) blasted with a blowtorch for crispiness .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
Unfortunately , even if you press it , it will tend to crumble . The way the curds form in small curd cottage cheese forms a skin that makes them tend to fall apart . The same thing can happen in making Indian style paneer if you let the curds boil . ( At least , I think it is why it happened ! ) Probably your best bet is to drain it then make something like vada or kofte ( for malai kofte ) out of it , mixing in some maida or cooked potato or besan and kneading it into a dough , then forming it into balls or patties . I think it will still be tasty , even though it is n't what you planned for .
Are you absolutely certain that the " grittiness " is caused by the cheese not melting , and not because the sauce is curdling ? If you cook it too long or too fast , that is what will happen . If you must use the Kraft stuff ( personally , I think it has no flavour compared to real Reggiano ) , try melting the cheese on low heat in a very small amount of cream first , before you add it to the main sauce pan . If it 's still gritty , either it 's curdling or you need to use a better cheese .
end question
start question
How to use a pressure cooker for frozen chicken ?
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
Back meat on poultry tends to be rubbery , inaccessible , and there is relatively little of it . The meat is almost like other dark meat but is found only in thin sheets . Also since , during tradition roasting the back meat is down in the pan , it tends to be less cooked than is pleasant for dark meat . It is n't practical to try and carve it because it is a ton of effort for just a little bit of not-very-good meat . After carving off the major cuts I will use my hands to pull off any useful scraps - including some of the larger pieces of back meat . I save these pieces for my standard poultry scraps applications : pie , soup , and enchiladas . Whatever is left gives up it 's goodness into the broth when the carcass is boiled and is then fed , with the spent carcass , back to the chickens .
Yes . If you would n't drink it , do n't cook with it . Whatever it tastes like out of the bottle , it will add that to the dish . Cook with a wine you might pair with the dish ( light wines for seafood , chicken ; heavier wines for meats and stews ) . Do n't use a fruity wine unless you want your dish to have some fruit notes . Do n't use a very dry wine if you 're making a sweeter dish .
I 've cooked white rice , brown rice , wild rice , whole Oat Groats ( 2 brown rice cycles + a little extra water on cycle two ) , rye groats , Khorasan wheat ( kamut ) , barley , Spelt , and numerous other seeds in my fuzzy logic rice cooker , but never Quinoa . It seems to me the white Quinoa seed benefits from a short cook time , and a long post-cooking expansion time . A rice cooker does n't do that very well . The red Quinoa I can also get is tougher , and might like being cooked like brown rice . That said , I have n't tried it . It 's certainly possible that your rice cooker could make passable Quinoa . I suggest you give it a try on a small batch . If you like the result , post that here , and I 'll try it too .
Boil the broth down more before adding the cornstarch . The broth will continue to thicken as it cools , so aim for a little thin/runny in the pan so it 's the right consistency on the table . Do n't be afraid to mix in the cornstarch in multiple , smaller batches . Edit : For gravy , I prefer the taste of flour to corn starch .
Yes , there is a clear difference in never-frozen vs. defrosted meat . The cell plasma in your chicken freezes in the freezer , turning into ice crystals . Since cell plasma is over 90 % water , it expands instead of shrinking in the 0 to -4 ° C range . The crystals cut the cell walls . When you defrost the meat and cook it , the cell plasma flows out into the pan , leaving you with dried out meat . This is the first , major problem with freezing , and occurs even when the meat is frozen for a very short time . If you keep meat stored frozen for longer time , there are two other effects . The unavoidable one is rancidity . The cell plasma in frozen meat has a high mineral concentration , and given time , it will oxidize the fat in meat , changing its taste for the worse . The avoidable one is freezer burn - it occurs if the meat is not wrapped properly in the freezer . Freezer-burned meat is really unpleasant to eat , most people throw out affected parts . Of course , this is not the only factor affecting meat quality . SAJ14SAJ 's comment is true in the sense that bad meat ( from mass-produced young animals grown in bad conditions ) will not have much taste of its own , and even if you prevent it from drying out , it still wo n't be as nice as good meat . But what is more pertinent in this case is that the cooking process can more impact on drying out than a freezing-defrosting cycle . If you cook defrosted meat carefully , you will minimize the dryness effect . It wo n't be the perfect morsel , but it can still taste pretty well . On the other hand , if you have never-frozen meat and overcook it , it can get to shoe-leather consistency , so that you lose all advantages from non-freezing . References : McGee on Food and Cooking , p. 146 ( reputable , dead-paper book ) or <URL> - ( random Google hit , one click away ) .
There really are a couple separate issues that come together here : What is collagen to gelatin conversion ? When collagen converts to gelatin , it is not melting ( which is the same type of molecule , just as ice and liquid water are the same thing ) . Instead , it is being hydrated which is a chemical conversion process , where water is actually being added into the overall structure of the protein molecule , converting it into a different protein molecule . This does not happen just because of temperature , but rather because a water molecule with the right level of energy to power the process ( that is , moving fast enough ) hits the collagen molecule at the exactly proper spot to interact with it and become part of the molecule . The new molecule is called gelatin . Why does a pressure cooker facilitate effectively higher temperatures than an oven ? Most foods contain a great deal of water . On of the fundamental properties of water is that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to convert it from liquid water just at the boiling point ( 100 C / 212 F at sea level pressure ) to vapor just at the same temperature . This is called the <URL> . When a food containing water is heated in air at normal pressure , even if the air temperature is much hotter than the boiling point of water , the surface of the food can not get hotter than the boiling point , because any additional energy goes into converting the water into steam , and drying the surface . Only once the surface is dry can browning and other processes that happen above 100 C begin . However , in the inside of the food , which is still wet , the temperature continues to never be able to exceed the boiling point . Very few foods are normally cooked to the point where the interiors are dry enough to get hotter than this . In a pressure cooker , the boiling point of water is higher once the pressure is achieved ( for brevity , I will not discuss why this is so ) . For example , at 15 bar ( typical of a pressure cooker , one additional atmosphere of pressure above normal sea level pressure ) , water will not boil until about 250 F / 121 C . This permits both the surface and the interior of the food to reach higher temperatures than at normal pressure . Some cooking processes are accelerated due to this difference . Why does collagen convert faster ? Collagen conversion to gelatin is a time/temperature dependent process . That is , the higher the temperature ( within reasonable limits , before it burns or decomposes otherwise ) , the faster the conversion . Collagen will convert to gelatin at 140 F , but it will take literally several days . At 170 - 180 F ( typical internal temperatures in sea level braising ) , it takes several hours . In a pressure cooker , this time can be reduced , because the internal temperature can go higher than it can at sea level temperature . The reason for this is that collagen to gelatin conversion is a stochastic process . What this means is that it is essentially random . As a gross over simplification , imagine that the collagen molecule is a giant molecule ( it is ) with a button on it . All of the water molecules are moving around randomly , bouncing off one another . The higher the temperature , the faster they move on average . That is , at a low temperature , most molecules are moving relatively slowly , but some are almost stopped , and a very few are very fast . At a higher temperature , they move faster on average , and a slightly larger number are moving relatively very fast . Now imagine that the button will not be pressed until a water molecule happens to hit it while going fast enough to hit the button hard enough . The higher the temperature , the less time it will take for this to happen on average , because more of the water molecules are moving fast . Take this process over many , many , many collagen molecules , and you have the time/temperature conversion curve : the hotter the temperature , the faster the conversion overall . Conclusion Collagen to gelatin conversion is faster in a pressure cooker because the internal temperature of the food gets higher than is possible at atmospheric pressure , and this higher temperature speeds the stochastic gelatinization process .
After extended pressure cooking ( or any liquid cooking , for that matter ) the vegetables ' cell walls ( composed primarily of flavorless <URL> ) have broken down to the point where they 're barely holding together , and are basically mush . Most of the flavor and nutrients contained within those cells has escaped into the liquid at that point . There might be a bit left in the solids to extract , but very little practical way to do so . It 's probably more accurate to say that the vegetables have given up enough that they 're unpalatable . You could eat them , but they would n't be anywhere as pleasant as fresh vegetables , and would offer little nutrition separate from the broth itself . I suppose you could puree them ( though you 'd be turning flavorless , starchy mush into smoother flavorless , starchy mush ) but they have little culinary value left . At most they would be filling , but probably unpleasant to eat . On the other hand , if you look outside of culinary applications , they make great compost .
I 'm afraid you have gotten something wrong . <URL> and pressure cooking are , as far as food physics is concerned , on the opposite ends of the scale . Pressure cooking allows you to increase the boiling point of water , thus reducing the cooking time . ( Bad idea for a tender steak , btw. , as soon as you exceed a certain temperature , the proteins in the meat change irreversibly and the meat gets tough . ) Sous-vide uses temperatures way below the boiling point , combined with a very extended cooking time . This means you can safely and slowly bring your steak to the desired core temperature without the risk of overcooking and thus toughening the meat . A final sear is just a finishing touch , not technically a necessity for cooking the meat . ( But do n't skip it , it 's for flavour and eye appeal ! ) So no , we ca n't give you a temperature / time chart for steak in a pressure cooker - because the results would be very unsatisfactory .
Do n't cook the chicken pieces for so long . Add them ten or twenty minutes before serving . For that matter , I would n't simmer the aromatics for that long either . Do the long simmer and cooking to make the chicken stock , then strain the now-tasteless and mushy expended bits from the flavorful stock . Heat the stock and add the sweated veggies , diced chicken , and any pasta/rice/dumplings desired but only cook briefly before serving .
The bowl is n't absolutely essential ; it 's part of the aesthetic . The shape does serve a purpose , as most of them have nicely curved bottoms that will minimize the chance of the powder from clumping near the edge of the bowl . I 've used a normal whisk when preparing " matcha latte " drinks for a client of mine back in the day . There 's an advantage to having the 80-120 " tate " ( bristle ? ) because they make it easier to break up beads that form as moisture contacts the tea . But a normal culinary whisk will do the trick , perhaps with a bit more work . I do n't see how the silicone brush would help whisking ; they tend to be pretty floppy ( and mine has occasionally had some of the silicone strands break off when I 've used it for brushing food ) .
There are several advantages to using a pressure cooker other than speed , the first of which address your concerns about skimming . If operated correctly the water in a pressure cooker will never come to the boil resulting in a clearer stock than one made by convention means . From Modernist Cuisine ( 2-291 ) : The liquid inside the pressure cooker will not boil , despite the elevated temperature , unless you let the heat get out of hand . A liquid boils when its vapor pressure exceeds the ambient pressure around it . Inside a sealed pressure cooker , as liquid water vaporizes , it raises the ambient pressure , which in turn increases the boiling point . So long as water vapor is not escaping the pressure cooker , the pressure inside will stay high enough to keep liquid water from boiling . Never reaching a boil is important because it keeps the stock clear . Turbulence from boiling emulsifies oils and small food particles from the ingredients into a stock , thereby making it murky . A telltale sign that the stock is at a rolling boil inside a pressure cooker is a jet of steam or fog from the overextended pressure valve . This jet means that the pressure cooker is overpressurized , and for safety 's sake the valve is relieving the pressure . You can further increase the clarity by adding some raw meat to your ingredients to act as a filtering agent . From Modernist Cuisine ( 2-295 ) : Dispersing a small amount of raw ground meat along with the other ingredients when making a pressure-cooked stock yields a stock with the clarity of a traditional consommé . This works because protein extracted from the uncooked ground meat acts just like protein in egg white : it sponges up tiny light scattering fat globules and other small particles . Another benefit comes from the sealed nature of the cooking environment , which prevent volatile aromas from evaporating into the air . Heston Blumenthal cites this as one of the reasons why The Fat Duck began using pressure cookers for their stock in <URL> : Now , this may seem obvious , but when you smell those wonderful odours while you 're cooking , it 's a sign that you 're losing flavours through those volatile elements that disappear in the air . A pressure cooker , however , keeps the aromas and flavour molecules sealed in the pot ... In a normal stockpot , by contrast , water evaporates at boiling point , taking flavour with it . Modernist Cuisine ( 2-292 ) concurs : When the the pressure-cooking step is done , you must let the cooker cool before removing the lid ... Cooling first means that volatile aromas in the vapor above the liquid will condense back into the liquid rather than escape into the kitchen . However , not all pressure cookers are created equal and some will release vapor to maintain pressure resulting in a poorer quality stock . Dave Arnold and Nils Norén from Cooking Issues have done extensive experiments into this phenomenon <URL> : in blind tastings vented pressure cookers produced inferior results to both conventionally cooked stocks and those made with more advanced spring valved cookers ; however , the non-vented vessels produced the best results out of all three methods . Finally , the elevated temperature increases the rate of Maillard reactions resulting in a more flavourful stock . In the Cooking Issues article above the resulting browning was significant enough that it was easy to tell which stock was pressure cooked and which was n't just by visual inspection : The aroma of the pressure cooked stock was clearly superior . The color was deeper as well ( because of this all future tests were done actually blind -- with our eyes closed ) . Unfortunately the conventional stock tasted better . It had a stronger chicken flavor and was better balanced overall . ... I took 4 liters of conventional chicken stock from the restaurant and pressure-cooked half while the other half simmered on the stove . This time , I did n't use the school 's pressure cooker , I used my own . When I compared the two stocks side by side the pressure cooked one was far browner . I had n't thought the pressure cooker would change the color of a pre-made stock . When we tasted them the pressure-cooker won .
You can cook steaks from frozen , it is just a matter of adjusting cooking times . They will take longer to cook . But you have saved several hours in defrost time . I take my frozen steaks and sear on both sides , then finish them off in the oven for about 16 mins depending on cut , or with a thicker cut for about 18 to 20 mins . America 's Test Kitchen has experimented with this idea and says that the steaks taste better cooked from frozen ( <URL> ) . I have to watch the temperature otherwise the steak might get a little tough , but I always preheat the oven . For me , 180 ° C.
You have a few options to lower their explosiveness : Pierce the skin , like you do <URL> . Lower your frying temperature can help a bit , but you 'll probably always need to use a temperature higher than the boiling point to get any kind of crisping action . Dehydrate the liver a bit before frying . You could use a dehydrator , a low-and-slow oven bake or a low temperature , low oil sauté to get them to release their juices ( like you do for browning some mushrooms ) . I do n't know which of these will work best for liver , but naturally you 'll lose a little bit of the final juiciness . You mention the splash guard , which I ca n't recommend enough . These numbers are cheap and easy to find . <URL> But you can also protect your hands directly . I recommend something articulated , like this pair of silicon mold Storm Trooper styled oven mitts from Think Geek : <URL> <URL>
Go for 145 . 2 hours . Salmonella dies even at " low " temperatures ( from 135 ) as long as you cook it for longer . 135 for at least 87 minutes , will kill salmonella . However , I like it best when cooked at 145 for 2 hours .
Most crabmeat is pasteurized , so the texture has already suffered a bit . Crab cakes are basically a binder , crab meat , and seasoning . The binder can add all sorts of interesting textures . There are recipes with Panko , bread flour , flour , eggs , ... If you are worried about it being dry , add mayo as @Darin suggested or increase the oil a bit . Look at the packaging , the crab meat may be already cooked , so you may get away with cooking it less .
My answer to the other question still applies : vacuum packing will not prevent most foodborne pathogens from multiplying . In the case of chicken , it will stop campylobacter ( which needs small amounts of oxygen ) but will not stop salmonella or listeria . Here 's how you can determine if thawed , previously frozen chicken is still safe to eat : When freezing , marking the freezing date on masking tape and stick it on the package When thawing , mark the thawing date similarly To determine if it 's still good : subtract the freezing date from the original expiration date , and see if it 's been that many days since you thawed it This method works because spoilage is halted by freezing ... but not reversed . Once you thaw , the process picks back up where it left off . A few days in the fridge after thawing should be fine , assuming you do n't wait until right before expiration to freeze the chicken .
It depends on the preparation . I have the Creative Whip which comes with a little recipe book and not all of the recipes demand that you chill after charging . For example the " instant chocolate mousse " is really instant . The only liquid ingredient is the cream itself which is already chilled , and the gas expansion inside the canister chills it even further , so it 's ready right away . On the other hand , if you 're making something with gelatin , carrageenan , or any other gelling agent which needs to set , then you 'll obviously need to fill the canister while it 's still a liquid ( otherwise it 's going to be rather hard to whip , not to mention hard to get into the canister itself ! ) and then chill to set it . Basically it 's simply a question of how cold your liquid is before it goes into the canister vs. how cold you want it to be when you serve it . If you can chill it to the correct temperature beforehand , and that wo n't prevent you from whipping it ( as it would with an actual gel ) , then by all means chill first . In the specific case when you 're using creams and/or cheeses to make a mousse or espuma , you almost never need to chill it in the whipper itself - although it wo n't hurt either . By the way , if you 're making a gel or anything else that needs to set , it 's best to chill it gradually in an ice water bath and shake it frequently as it chills , in order to keep the gas dispersed . If you just charge it and stick it in the fridge , you may find it very hard to dispense afterward .
There is no risk to the Teflon itself , or from it ; PTFE breaks down at about 500 F , which rice cookers will not achieve , especially on warming setting . Other than that , PTFE is one of the most inert substances known to man , as the atoms are already bound in energetically very favorable bonds : little is as able to displace them without significant input energy ( thus the high breakdown temperature ) . On the other hand , you should not hold rice for a long time without either refrigerating it , or having it above 140 F ( 60 C ) as there is some risk of <URL> growing and causing food borne illness .
I would suggest not roasting a chicken at such a low heat for so long . Here is a response to a similar question on another cooking forum : A few days ago I printed out a recipe from peacefulnightdove " BEST Slow-Roasted Chicken " . It sounded wonderful but was to be roasted at 250 F ( 126 C ) degrees for 5 hours . That sounded like a low temperature to me , so I emailed the County Nutritionist and Health Agent where I lived . Here is her reply : Good for you JoAnn to be suspicious ! That is definitely outside the USDA guidelines , and yes bacteria may well be growing for quite a while in there . Poultry especially should not be done at less than 325 degrees . You could use the same spices and onions , increase the temp to 325 and decrease the time . Figure about 20 min per pound for the time . The safest way is to use a meat thermometer , final temp in the thigh should be 180 degrees . <URL> I would also suggest using a crockpot .
end question
start question
What general rules should I follow to ensure that my measurements are accurate ?
When does it matter ? Only worry about highly accurate measurement when it matters . This is generally when two ingredients or aspects of a recipe must be held in a close ratio to be successful . This occurs more normally in baking than in savory cooking ( except for modernist or molecular methods , where accuracy is extremely important ) . The classic example is balancing the amount of baking soda and lemon juice in a recipe , so there is enough acid for the baking soda to react with and provide good leavening . In savory cooking , many ingredients just provide bulk , flavor , or texture , but are not reacting chemically with other ingredients in a significant way . In this case , you generally do not need highly accurate measurements . Volume versus weight The goal when measuring ingredients is that you want to have a reproducible amount of the substance . The only true way to ensure this in the general case is to use an accurate scale , which measures by weight . The reason is that some foods are compressible , and can be squeezed or fluffed to different densities . The classic example is flour : depending on how you measure ( sifting into a measuring cup and then leveling , to dip and sweep , for example ) , a single cup could weight as little as about 4 ounces at the low end to over 5 ounces at the high end . That is a variance of over 20 % ! For ingredients which are highly compressible , or whose density can change , measuring by weight is simply going to be more accurate , and more repeatable . 4.5 ounces of flour by weight is always , well , 4.5 ounces . Economical kitchen scales are available that measure digitally down to 1 gram ( about 28th of an ounce ) . Switching from Volume to Weight : Common Conversions Switching from measuring primarily by volume to primarily by weight is somewhat scary . How much flour should there be in a cup ? What does a cup of sugar weight ? A quality cookbook for baked goods will give you ingredients by weight , or if not , in the front matter , will tell you what weight they are using for a standard up . Similarly , the quality websites for baked goods will tell you what weight they use for a standard " cup " of flour , or they will simply provide weight information as part of the recipe . If you do n't have recipes specified by weight , and can not find a specific conversion or standard cup size for your recipe source , here are some good values to get started for the most important ingredients . Flour - 4.5 oz / cup Sugar - 8 oz / cup Brown Sugar - 7 oz / cup Cocoa - 4.25 oz / cup Water - 8 oz / cup Vegetable oil - 8 oz / cup ( surprisingly , it is not that much less dense than water ; you would need to measure 10 cups worth to be off by one full ounce by weight ) Sour cream - 8.1 oz / cup ( in most cases , rounding to 8 would be fine ) Web searches , such as <URL> can be very helpful in finding conversion factors . As a side benefit , once you are measuring by weight , you may actually find it is more convenient , and has less cleanup , as you can measure each item into a common bowl ( pressing the tare or zero key each time ) . No more little pile of bowls and measuring spoons to wash ! When is measuring by volume okay ? Things that do n't compress , and are not mixed with air are fine when measured by volume . The scientific reason is that their density is constant , so a given volume will always have the same weight . Examples of items that can be measured accurately by volume include : Liquids of almost all sorts - water , oils , juices , extracts , milk , and so on Fine , solid powders , like granulated sugar Spices are another exception . While measuring by weight is in fact preferred and more accurate ( if you have a scale accurate to below the gram level ) , they do n't usually participate in the chemistry of a recipe , and are adjusted to taste in any case . Therefore , the inherent inaccuracy of measuring them by volume is less troublesome . Salt : the Gotcha Salt is an unusual ingredient . Depending on how it is crystalized , it can have surprisingly different weights per volume . For this reason , if you can , measuring salt by weight is always more accurate . Still , it is often used in small quantities , and it is fairly in-compressible , so measuring by volume should be okay , as long as you always measure the same type of salt . Be aware that different salt brands and types have differently shaped granules , crystals , or flakes , some of which have air inclusions , so the weight to volume conversion depends on the particular type of salt . While all granulated table salts are fairly similar , kosher and specialty salts can weight as little as half as much per unit of volume in comparison , and can vary by brand . Common US salt volume to weight conversions : Granulated ( table ) salt - 10.3 oz / cup Kosher Salt , Diamond - 5.01 oz / cup Kosher Salt , Morton 's - 7.68 oz / cup Dry volume If you do measure by volume , use the right type of measuring tool . A measuring spoon or dry measuring cup is appropriate for
No . Those are not common pizza toppings in America at all . In America there are these ( rather well known ) pizza styles : Chicago style Chicago style pizza is a deep-dish pizza that is baked in a thick heavy cornmeal based crust . The toppings are also added in reverse order of a traditional pizza . First the cheese is added , then a pound or more of sausage is added in a dense patty layer , finally it is topped with sauce . You eat it with a fork and knife . New York style New York style pizza is wide thin-crust pizza . The crust is made with a very high gluten bread flour and hand-tossed . Some say that it gets a lot of it 's flavor from the NYC water . It is typically cut into only 8 slices for a large pie . You fold the piece in half to eat . New Haven style New Haven style pizza is a bit lesser known , and originates from New Haven , Connecticut . There it is commonly called " apizza " . It is similar to a New York style pizza in that it has a thin crust , but it is always brick oven fired until crispy . You should not be able to fold a New Haven slice of pizza in half without cracking it . It should also be crispy enough to stand up to it 's own weight when held by the crust . In a New Haven pizza a " plain " does not have mozzarella . A plain pizza consists solely of sauce , oregano , and a bit of parmesan and romano grated on top . Mozzarella is considered a separate topping . They are most known for their white pizzas . These have no tomatoes at all , the " sauce " consists of olive oil , oregano , chopped garlic , and grated parmesan . The most well known is the clam pie which has fresh clams as a topping . It is generally frowned upon to order this with mozarella . Verace pizza napoletana style Although this is the original Neapolitan pizza , it has become very popular in the Pacific Northwest ( and maybe elsewhere ? ) . There is a <URL> , which has stringent requirements for the crust ingredients , oven and so forth . The pies are very thin in the interior , with a slightly puffy edge , and are typically lightly charred in spots , which contributes a lot of flavor . Toppings tend to be minimalist .
Put the meat in a sealed plastic bag , place in a bowl in the sink , fill with cold tapwater , then set the tap running in a thin stream with the water overflowing the sides of the bowl . The moving water will safely thaw the meat through convection . Make sure you get as much air out of the plastic bag as you can . You might need to put some weight on it in the bowl to keep it submerged in the water .
You may very well be able to make that system work for you , but in the two fine-dining restaurants I 've worked , the system is less paperwork-intensive and more common-sense . It is based on organized storage , adding new product where it will be used after the old , and labeling . This lets you see at a glance what you have and how old it is , rather than having to constantly maintain an up-to-date inventory list . It also makes it easy to find what you want . The system works like so : Organize your storage so food goes in the same spot every day . This way you can find see at a glance what you have and what you need . It also makes it easier to find things . New food of the same type goes behind the old stuff , and is n't opened until the old product is used up . This prevents you from discovering the dreaded Green Milk lurking at the back of the fridge . ALWAYS label prepared food with the date , using masking tape and a permanent marker . Make sure the label ( or container 's expiration date ) is toward the front . You do n't want to have to sniff-test old food . Trust me . Store in clear containers , so you see how much is left . Inventory perishable foods before purchasing more . Toss spoiled or questionable food promptly . This prevents " unpleasant surprises , " and avoids contaminating nearby stuff . Cool food as fast as possible , to prevent bacterial growth . Hot water holds a lot of heat , so it gets pre-chilled in an ice water bath ; otherwise it can stay warm and breed bacteria for HOURS . Containers can be left open for an hour or two in the fridge to cool contents faster . At home , I use a very similar system , with a few modifications : Pre-packaged containers get labelled with an opened-on date , because usually this determines when they spoil more than the expiration date . Expiration dates are just rough estimates . <URL> provides more detailed information , but I do n't refrigerate any kind of leftover more than a week . High-protein foods , or things with egg in them get less time . If it smells even a little off , it 's probably unsafe , with the exception of milk and produce . They will only make you WISH they could kill you . Only buy produce you can use before the next grocery run ... unless it 's really cheap and can be used up easily . Yes , fresh tomatoes are amazing to cook with . They 're slightly less awesome when half of your 5 pounds spoil , unused . Do n't buy fresh meat or fish without a specific meal plan , or at least a schedule for use . This prevents these expensive , perishable foods from sitting in the fridge and spoiling . This does n't have to be a detailed day-by-day meal plan , but the minute you take to think before buying prevents impulse buys and helps make sure you 'll have the time and ingredients to cook the food before it goes bad . I know the last point can be difficult , but remember that a meal plan might be no more than " make myself a nice steak over the weekend . " The idea is to avoid buying meat on Sunday that you wo n't have time to cook until next Friday . If you have to , buy meat right before cooking a nice meal ; at least then it will be fresh . Freezing is also a good backup plan , but only if done fairly early .
Your question makes me think of demi-glace . From your question , I would say that you 're trying to get a nice shiny thick sauce for your duck , one that tastes of red wine . If that 's your goal , I would recommend you Reduce your stock down until it 's about the total volume of liquid that you 're going to want . The stock reduction should be roughly the consistency you want your final sauce to be . Add an equal volume of wine Reduce down to desired consistency ( so about by half ) . This will give you a lovely sauce , with lots of that sticky goodness that reduced stocks deliver so nicely . You might do this with all of your stock , then freeze cubes of unused sauce for later ; they make a great addition to other bases . Left-over alcohol is not going to be an issue here , by the way , you 'll have long since boiled/simmered it off .
Honey might go bad in two ways - one involves stuff growing on the surface of the honey , the other involves the honey itself fermenting . In both cases , the spoilage is connected to exceedingly poor storage - as other answers mentioned , honey is difficult to spoil ... but difficult is not the same thing as impossible , right :) Honey that ferments is usually linked to high water content - some honeys have a higher water content naturally , some might have water added at some point ( for example , to deter crystallization ) , some might have water leaked into a container and puddled on top or along the edges , and honey will absorb moisture from the air if left unsealed , and eventually reach a saturation where the water is no longer a limiting factor to yeasts . In any case , part of honey 's preservative qualities is the lack of available water and too high concentration of sugars inhibits most spoiling organisms - so when that extra water becomes available , honey turns from " never goes bad " to " potent food source for yeasts " , especially since as the yeast eat the sugars , they also lower the concentrations from something inhospitable to yeasts , to something that can support more yeast growth - so the fermentation will continue progressing . A small puddle of water can gradually lead to a whole container fermenting because the local dilution is much greater than the total water percentage , and once given a foothold the yeasts will keep eating the concentrations further down into yeast-inhabitable ranges . Some fermentation is more problematic than others - for example , mead probably originates from a spontaneous fermentation of honey that was enjoyable , on the other hand , different yeasts may give off bad odors and off flavors . If your honey <URL> to the point of spoilage , it will smell bad , look cloudy , and taste terrible . It will also foam ( carbon dioxide production ) , may separate , may bulge if the container permits , all that good stuff that warns if any foodstuff in fermenting . There is some stuff on that page about natural beneficial fermentation and typical crystallization patterns , but that is n't relevant to the question of spoilage The other way honey might go bad , is having some debris accumulate on the surface of honey ( cross contamination ) , that gives some mold or other bacteria enough food to get a foothold . Again , honey itself is a poor source of food if properly stored - not enough water , not enough available food to get a foothold - but add debris , crumbs , or whatever that can spoil more easily right on the surface , and that can give mold or whatever enough of a toehold to build a floating colony , as you envisioned . If there 's enough debris or moisture on the surface , the mold might start nibbling at the surface of the honey - which will start lowering the sugar content to something mold can find hospitable , much the same way fermentation can progress . You might be able to simply remove the colony or even the top layer to salvage the honey , if you are willing to risk it , since honey is known to be rather inhospitable to dangerous organisms . And if the honey is properly stored afterwards , any critters left should n't be able to re-colonize since they needed the crumbs to get a toehold in the first place - but only you can decide what you will risk .
Your experience with the curry is normal . Salt helps bring out and enhance existing flavors . This is true for everyone , as far as I know . Different people have different sensitivities , and want different amounts , but the effect is the same . Given that you thought the curry tasted better with it , I would n't be surprised if you should also be adding salt to other things - maybe just not as much as recipes typically call for .
More or less , yes . Just know that eggs of different species have different " flavors . " There may be some issues with substituting in dishes due to varying fat content of the yolks and such ... I 've had duck and goose egg quiches . I 've had fried quail eggs on toast . I have yet to try an ostrich or emu egg .
To begin with , you can microwave the tomato before cooking it in the pan ; this will also shorten the cooking time . Doing this , the tomato " grains " will already be hot inside when they begin to cook from the outside in the pan . You 'll still get the external " roasted " feel but with a softer texture . You can compensate for the citric acid , and for the excess of the tomatoes ' own acid , by adding some sugar . In order to hide the metallic taste , add some herbs . Try one leaf of bay laurel ; or a combination of dry herbs like savory , fennel , basil , thyme , and oregano .
What would a network-attached scale even do ? You 'd have to configure it to report to something , or have something else poll for it ( and then you 'd still have to configure it , either via DHCP , BOOTP or similar to set its IP address ) . It 'd be a security nightmare , as it 'd be like a network attached medical device ( or old printer ) that never gets updates to deal with security vulnerabilities . Some sort of a serial connection like RS-232 or USB is just plain safer in this situation . ... and there are plenty of USB digital scales , as they 're used by companies to weight packages &amp; print out postage . The only reason to not go with USB might be distance limitations ( 5m for USB 2 ) , but you can get USB over Cat5 ' extenders ' . ( which would then meet your ' cat5 ' cable requirement ... but you can also get DB9 ( or DB25 ) to RJ45 adaptors , if you just want to run 232 over cat5 ) ( I 'm a programmer/sysadmin at a US government agency so it 's possible that my security concerns are a little higher than most other people 's . Even if you keep it on an isolated network to only talk to the terminal , odds are that the terminal is going to need to be updated at some point , and you risk it getting infected . Even if they exist , it 's just not worth the trouble . And yes , I do know about the <URL> )
The consistency of royal icing depends on many things , including the size of your eggs , but also the humidity/weather . So if you know what stiffness you want , it 's perfectly valid to add sugar until it " feels right " . ( I usually make royal icing with meringue powder rather than fresh egg whites , which removes one variable from the equation [ the size of the eggs ] , but I still have to adjust the sugar to get the right consistency . ) As far as troubleshooting , if you 've been whipping away and it 's still gloopy , by all means add more sugar . If you overdo the sugar , you 'll know immediately : it 'll be too stiff to mix . ( In which case , depending on the quantities involved you can either just add a teaspoon of warm water , or you can whip up another egg white separately until soft peaks form , then fold it into your icing . )
Quite often , it 's because a manufacturer prefers to decrease the size of a packet than to increase its price . Customers notice when the price goes up but do n't tend to notice the product getting smaller . For example , jam in the UK used to be sold in jars containing one pound , which became the equivalent 454 grams with metrication . But , more recently , that 's shrunk to 400g and even 350g in some cases . Similarly , according to <URL> , Yorkie bars used to be 70g , which then became 64.5 g , 61g , 55g and now 46g ; packets of crisps that used to be 30g are now often 27g ( 10 % smaller ) or even less .
Number 3 will give you the best results . There simply is nothing as great in this world as a latke crisp from the frying pan , having spent but a couple seconds on a paper towel receiving the blessing of a few flakes of good sea salt . I 've never tried number 2 . If you do , please report back . Number 1 will not give you crisp latkes . They will still have the delicious taste of homemade latkes , but they will be soft , not crunchy .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
Assuming you did n't do some kind of " flavor injection " treatment , there is absolutely no reason why one part of a bird would taste radically different from another . I 'm going to go with " Bad Duck . " Cooking the bird slowly seriously reduces the possibility of a " hot spot " causing some kind of local taste variance . Breast meat will become overdone at the point where dark meat is still tasty , but that would n't explain smell or taste , and unpleasant smells are almost always related to bacterial issues . If it was discolored , it could have been local bruising , which would cause some taste issues , but , again , would n't explain the smell .
No , this is n't normal . A little flaking , perhaps , when you go over 600 ° F , but 500 ° F should n't do anything . It should n't even smoke . Something is wrong with the seasoning on your pan . From the fact that its smoking , I 'd guess its not sufficiently baked on . Alternatively , maybe the pan was n't clean when you applied it . If its just not baked on , I 'd remove all the flaking bits ( with some harsh scrubbing , sand paper even ) , clean it thoroughly , then bring it to around 300 ° F ( stovetop or oven ) . This will make sure it is completely dry . Spread a thin layer of high-iodine value oil ( flax seed is great , soy is pretty good and cheap and easy to find : look for the bottle that just says vegetable oil and check the ingredients , it 's probably soy ) . Spreading is easy with a paper towel . Next , toss into a very hot oven , 400 -- 500 , smoking is expected . Bake for 90 minutes , then turn the oven off . Allow pan to cool with oven . Once its cool , touch it . If its at all tacky , put it back in the oven , and bake for another hour ( once again , allowing to cool with oven ) . It should be a shiny black at this point , and not at all tacky . You can repeat the process to add more layers . Two should be reasonably non-stick to start cooking on . If it still peels off after this , you 're probably going to need to strip the seasoning and re-season the pan , after stripping it to bare metal . See <URL> to season it from bare metal .
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
Are there different qualities in prepared Hoisin sauces ? Think of it like barbecue sauce or chili powder : every company has their own recipe , and it 's always hard to know the precise justification for a specific price . The high price on one may be part of their premium brand image , and have nothing to do with the quality of the ingredients . Ultimately , you just have to try a few brands and decide which flavor appeals to you , and whether you find the price reasonable . If so , would I be better served by making my own ? As far as I can tell , hoisin sauce does not need to be fermented , so it 's going to be much easier to make authentic hoisin sauce at home than something like soy sauce or Worcestershire sauce . It 's more like making your own barbecue sauce . A few different websites have minor variations on this recipe : <URL> Is it worth the effort ? That 's a matter of personal opinion . It 's probably hard to justify on purely economic terms ; do you really use more than a few cents worth of hoisin sauce in any given meal , and are the ingredients that much cheaper than the product itself ? But of course , there are other reasons to cook than just to save money . I think you 've just inspired me to try making my own hoisin sauce :) If I make my own , how long will it keep for ? Each of those ingredients can last months on its own , often without any refrigeration , and together would create a highly acidic and antimicrobial environment . The worst that might happen to homemade hoisin sauce in several months of refrigerated storage is it might separate a bit and have to be remixed .
Let the dough rest in the bowl for a while after mixing . Time will not only improve the flavor ( insert autolyse proselytism here ) but will also give the flour time to hydrate , making the dough somewhat easier to handle . Dough will become less sticky as you work it -- witness the way dough kneaded in a mixer or food processor initially sticks to the sides but eventually forms a ball and leaves the bowl clean . So , one option is to work it a bit with a mixer first , or just with a wooden spoon in the bowl . Anil 's suggestion to oil your hands is a good one . If the kind of dough you 're making allows it , add some oil or butter to the dough during mixing , too . Flour helps , of course . Instead of trying to coat your hands in flour , throw a bit on the kneading surface and on the top of the dough . For very sticky dough , a <URL> can help you scrape the dough off the surface and fold it over onto itself until it becomes easier to handle . This is easiest if you 're working on a hard , smooth kneading surface like marble .
I think that washing pre-washed greens is an issue of emotional security , if you do n't trust the purveyor . As the <URL> : Many pre-cut , bagged , or packaged produce items like lettuce are pre-washed and ready-to-eat . If so , it will be stated on the packaging . If the package indicates that the contents are pre-washed and ready-to-eat , you can use the produce without further washing . It certainly does no harm , but you then have to also dry them for most uses , so it is more work , and kind of redundant : you have paid a premium price to buy the greens already washed . If you are going to wash them yourself , why not buy less expensive produce , and perhaps have more control over what goes into your mix ?
end question
start question
How to substitute vodka in home-made vanilla extract ?
Think about this question another way : You are making vanilla infused liquor , you just happen to be cooking with it . And Yes , you can infuse any liquor If you want to use a substitute for Wodka brand Vodka ( i.e. use cheaper , off-brand vodka like Kamachatka ) , I would say that yes , you can substitute out one vodka for another with the caveat that you will want to consider the purity of the distillation you are using as it may impact the flavor of your extract . Substituting top-shelf vodka for " well " vodka may result in an inferior extraction . If you are asking whether you can use some other grain alcohol other than vodka , itself , the answer is that yes , you can . You can even use brown liquors and so on ; bear in mind they will all extract the oils but will carry the flavors differently ( vanilla infused bourbon does n't sound half bad ) . In particular , I would recommend going with a neutral grain spirit like <URL> ; I have used it in making lemoncello , orangecello , and homemade Kahlua and it is pretty effective in extracting flavor while having none of its own .
-18 ° C ( -0.4 ° F ) is not too low for storage ( as this would be the normal temperature of a <URL> , where I store my ice cream and frozen yogurt . I definitely would n't set the temperature higher if I store also other stuff in the same freezer ) . For serving you would probably want to let it sit out a little bit , so that it softens up a little so that you can scoop it ( same as with ice cream ) . If it is way too solid , you maybe let it thaw too much before storing . Then , you can fix the texture by re-blending it in a mixer ( you can get even more ideas if you search for recipes on " how to make a frozen yogurt/ice cream without an ice cream maker " - often it involves freezing in an ice cube tray for easier blending ) . Or by thawing it again and using an ice-cream maker to get the desired texture .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
The discolored surface is a product of oxidation , the same thing that happens when you leave apple slices in the open air . Oxigen is a highly reactive molecule and it binds to anything it can find , in this case your steak . It is not rotten or unsafe to eat in any way , it just has an unpleasant color/texture when raw . Meat packaging is often filled with carbon dioxide , and since the oxygen is already binded to carbon it no longer reacts with the steak . The side effect of this is that your steak could have gone bad , but it still looks good . The pad just collects any fluid that might drip off the steak , again for aesthetic purposes . I 'd suggest to remove the wax paper and shrinkwrap it , this will prevent it from oxidizing .
You could use the corkscrew in its classic role . Bore a hole , and then use the corkscrew to pull the sugar out in one piece . You should probably lay the tub on its side for this , as the sugar weight is probably too much to stay on the corkscrew . The other option , though rather extreme , is to cut away the plastic tub with wire cutters or shears . That way , you 're peeling the tub away , and will be left with the same lump , but no tub .
Empty the water from inside the coconut , as this is not the milk you want . Crack open your coconut and scrape out the meat . In a blender , take about half your meat and roughly 1 1/2 cups of hot water ( more or less depending on your desired thickness ) , and process . Repeat step 3 with the other half of the meat . Place a few layers of cheesecloth over a bowl and strain the milk through . Wrap up the cheesecloth and squeeze the rest of the milk out . No special press or tools needed . However , some sort of press could help get the last few drops out when squeezing the mass through the cheesecloth . I do n't think the water necessarily has to be hot . Some sources say to just use water , while other say hot . You may also want to start out with just 1/2 cup water and see how much it yields . Keep in mind : coconuts are n't super juicy . So expect the yield to be roughly equivalent to the amount of water used . The flesh is still perfectly usable , but its applications may be limited based on how much you processed it ( in terms of size ) . <URL> has the step-by-step I used with a few ( albeit not very helpful ) pictures .
Espresso , steamed milk . It is n't a complicated recipe at all , but it does require some equipment and technique . Espresso : You need to use an espresso roast coffee that is finely ground . If you like Starbucks , then buy a pound from them . Milk : There are a whole bunch of beverages made out of coffee and steamed milk . My joke about Italians is that every time they make one tiny little change in the preparation of something , they give it a brand new name . You need to steam the milk to introduce air and to warm it up , subtly changing the flavour . If you watch the barristas at starbucks , you 'll see that they end up with a steel pitcher of warm milk with a thick foam on top . I 'll define a cappuccino as the base beverage . A Cappuccino is 1 measure of Espresso , 1 measure of the warm milk from the bottom of the pitcter ( Use a spoon to stop the foam from pouring out ) and then one measure of the dry foam spooned on top . A Macchiato is a DRY cappuccino . Omit the milk . Just spoon the dry foam on top . A Latte is a WET cappuccino . Omit the foam . You can spoon a little on top for appearances . I 've used the terms wet and dry . If you were to actually order a wet cappuccino , you 'd get something between the Latte and Cappucino . If you were to order it dry , you 'd get something between the Cappuccino and the Macchiato . The French Cafe Au Lait is strong coffee ( brewed , not expressed ) , with almost boiled milk . If you do n't have a steamer available , this might be the route to take . It 's similar to a Latte , but without the equipment .
You could try wine coolers * . Wine likes temperatures around 50F , so they should all be around the temperature you want , and the nicer ones will have accurate thermostats too . Mini-fridges could work - if their warmest temperature setting is warm enough . But be careful : they tend to have very bad circulation . On normal fridge temperature settings , a lot of them range from frozen on one end to too warm on the other end . If you set it warmer , you might end up with a range from too cold to room temperature . If all you 're storing in it is roots , this is totally fine , but it could cause problems if anything is sensitive . So your mileage may vary , and it can be tough to tell without buying and trying . That said , you do n't want temperatures that cold for tomatoes . Storing them at room temperature is fine and generally recommended , unless your room temperature is excessively hot . ( For example , Harold McGee says this in On Food and Cooking , and that temperatures below 55F will mess with the texture . ) Most herbs also do pretty well in the refrigerator , wrapped loosely with paper towels inside an open bag . Things like basil that like warm weather do better at room temperature , with cut ends in water , like flowers . ( You can also do this in the fridge , if you 're having problems with them drying out too much - you 'll want to cover the " bouquet " loosely with a bag still . ) See <URL> for more . The things that you might want to store at intermediate temperatures are root vegetables - this is why they were traditionally <URL> ( like wine ) . Potatoes , for example , have an ideal storage temperature around 45-50F . But it 's not a huge concern ; their storage lifetime is pretty long at room temperature . Unless you find them sprouting before you use them , there 's not much to worry about ! * Note that I said wine cooler not wine cellar - in general the ones marketed as cellars are more expensive , but there are ones marketed as coolers that are back down closer to the minifridge price range . Rumtscho 's additional suggestion of drink refrigerators is probably good too - though quickly searching , I did n't find ones that were any cheaper than the cheap wine coolers .
Traditionally , for almost all of my recipes , the vanilla is added as soon as you remove the pot from the heat . You definitely want the heat to meld the vanilla flavor with the fats , but you do n't want to cook it . I would highly recommend splitting the bean lengthwise and either adding them that way to allow milk access to the flavorful seeds , or simply add the seeds alone . I 'd opt for the former , and fish out the husks after the sauce/pudding has cooled . Or , as you say , use ground vanilla bean as-is and you 're all set .
There are a few tools you should have that are out of the ordinary in a typical American kitchen : <URL> - It 's really the only way to make maki ( rolls ) . Pro tip : when you use it , put it inside of a large zip-loc bag . This helps prevent the rice sticking to the mat . <URL> - This is essential in helping the rice turn out properly . The one I linked includes a free mat . I do n't own this particular brand ; I bought mine from an asian grocery store near me for like $ 30 , it came with a paddle . If you do n't want to commit to this large uni-tasker then I recommend using an equally large shallow-ish plastic bowl/dish . The sushi chef that taught me said plastic was OK , but to avoid glass or metal . <URL> - A quality rice cooker makes life amazingly easier . I own the one linked and it is amazing . I use it for cooking all of my rice . The quality of Zojirushi is simply unsurpassed and it quickly pays for itself . The single most important thing is a very sharp knife . It makes cutting the maki SO much easier . I ca n't stress this enough . A chef 's knife is just fine , but it should be well cared for and very sharp . For beginners <URL> is by far the easiest to make . You simply shape a small amount of rice in the palm of your hand and slap a piece of fish or other seafood on top of it . Cutting the fish for nigiri is an artform and can not be adequately conveyed here , but if you just hack out a thin piece of the right size it will taste fine . Tuna and salmon are relatively cheap cuts to use for this . For maki I suggest starting with spicy tuna rolls and California rolls . All you need for a California roll is : avocado , cucumber , and imitation crab meat . For spicy tuna mix you need : tuna , <URL> , and <URL> ( or <URL> ) . You may also want some <URL> and/or <URL> roe for the outside of your rolls .
A flavoring extract is flavoring disolved in alcohol , while a flavoring emulsion is flavoring suspended in water with an emulsifier . Citrus oils like lemon have a stronger flavor when placed in an emulsion than an extract , and that is why they often come that way . ( <URL> ) As far as uses go , bakery emulsions keep the incorporated flavors more stable while your mixture changes temperature , and they combine more easily with other emulsions ( butter , sugar , egg for example ) than extracts do . <URL> those characteristics make them especially useful for pastry cremes .
If you need the eggs raw , you could submerge them in boiling water for 5 sec . That would kill any bacteria on the shell and the egg would still be raw inside . Put the eggs in cold water right away to prevent the egg from heating up by the residual heat in the shell . I have tried this many times and the eggs do not cook . If you are serving the eggs to very young children , pregnant women or someone who are sick , you should buy pasteurized eggs instead . But normally it 's safer to eat eggs from chickens you raise , than the ones from a factory , because they are more healthy and their immune system is well developed enough to kill the salmonella itself .
Most of the things in this are very easy to substitute . Roses lime juice is sweet and non-alcoholic ( and can be found in most supermarkets ) . You can easily sub in heavy cream for Baileys : they do n't taste the same , but chemically they react about the same . Grenadine is just a pomegranate juice simple syrup . No alcohol there at all . The only question is what you want to sub for the strawberry vodka . Some kind of soda , most likely . It 's a question of taste . It wo n't be easy to get something that is both fruity and clear , but you might try white cranberry juice , or white grape juice .
Short answer : no , you can not without radically changing the recipe until it is something completely different . See my answer here for more information : <URL>
<URL> The point of leaving the cookies to sit on the pan is to dry out the skin so it 'll solidify better . I 'd suggest resting longer ( up to 50 minutes ) or using a hotter oven .
The chai tea latte at Starbucks is made from the <URL> concentrate . This product is available at supermarkets and online , and is mixed with milk to make a product not unlike what you have at Starbucks ( minus the foam , as you pointed out ) . So , what are these flavors ( say , if you wanted to make this from scratch ) ? The website mentions that the black tea is malty . You could likely reproduce that with a maltier tea like Assam , though the box also says a " a rich blend of flavorful teas " , meaning that a stronger blend like English Breakfast might be a closer match . It looks like you are on the right track with the spices as well : cinnamon , ginger , cardamom , and cloves are all listed , though the website mentions black pepper , star anise , and vanilla in addition , which ought to lift your cup of chai a bit as well .
I do n't believe you will be satisfied with any cookies you roll out and cut from this dough . That said , there are three options that may allow the dough to find a tasty future . Make a ' Mega Cookie ' : roll the dough out and fit it onto a pizza tin and bake . This can be decorated as one large cookie/pizza . Make ' Brownies ' : work the dough into an 8 " x8 " or 9 " x13 " pan and bake . ' Cupcakes ' : scoop a spoonful of dough into each compartment of muffin tin and bake . Of course you will have to watch to get them done enough as the standard bake time probably wo n't apply . If your recipe does n't include eggs ( or you are not concerned with the risk that raw eggs may pose ) adding it to homemade ice cream would be a fourth option . Good luck .
Keep the fats as cold as possible before you start . Done right , it will more than compensate for the warmth of hands , blender/processor parts , and ambient temperature . Having somewhat chilled your choice of fats , separate them into small , 1 inch sized pieces , working with copious flour to keep them from sticking to one another . Place this in the freezer overnight . This allows the blade to chew up even near-frozen bits . I have n't noticed much degradation with this method , though I would n't the leave fats in for much longer than that . Mix your dry ingredients together . Put the thoroughly chilled fats in a blender/mixer , leaving some room . Then , using only as much dry ingredients as necessary , pulse the fats until you have pearls slightly smaller than fish gravel . This works especially good for blenders where the ingredients tend to get stuck at the bottom . If you get the chance , stow the blended stuff in the freezer while you work with the next batch . Once you have completed the blending en masse , you can add the rest of the dry ingredients . You should have a uniform texture to the whole mixture . Add water until the dough comes together with limited kneading . Wrap and return to fridge as soon as possible .
This scum is made from proteins . Meat contains muscle fibers ( the proteins actin and myosin ) as well as some loose proteins swimming in the fluids within the meat ( the cell plasma ) . When you cook meat , the protein-rich fluids are expelled ( that 's why overcooking makes meat dry ) . Under hot temperature , the proteins in the fluid coagulate , making it firm . It is especially noticeable in your burger , because there is more liquid flowing out quickly from your cut-up meat , but it also happens with whole pieces of meat , albeit more slowly . It is also very noticeable when cooking stock , because the stock is cooked for a long time and the liquid has time to come out from the meat . The coagulated liquid can form a single piece ( as it does with steak on a slightly oiled pan ) , but when it flows into water or oil , it mixes with it without dissolving , creating small loose particles . They float to the top , creating the frothy scum you describe . The process is perfectly natural , you 're not doing anything wrong . You can in fact eat the scum without any ill effects , but the taste is n't that great . So it is better to fish it out from the oil ( or water when making stock ) . In dry cooking ( aforementioned steak ) it is exactly this stuff ( after getting nicely browned on the hot pan ) which makes gravy taste so well , together with the dripped fat .
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
end question
start question
Is unwrapped refrigerated cheese safe ?
It is almost certainly safe unless it was left out at warm temperatures to spoil , or has molded , or otherwise spoiled in a manner not directly related to being uncovered . It may , however , be unpalatable due to : Drying out Picking up flavors or odors from other items in the refrigerator Since you are eating it relatively quickly , if you are not experiencing these issues , your practice should be just fine . My own personal preferred method is to put my cheese chunks in a zip lock type bag , which substantially cuts down on the drying , especially for moister cheeses like mozzarella or semi-firm cheddar .
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
If it 's refrigerated , it 'll last for at least a week , as long as you did n't pre-dairy it . Unrefrigerated , I would n't trust it for more than a day . Coffee is a crappy growth medium and it should start out the next best thing to sterile , but , even covered , its going to start to get moldy . Obviously if you add dairy , then you 're dealing with that dairy shelf-life , and that is n't very long at all .
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
In short , the answer is no , it is NOT safe . <URL> It 's tempting to lop off the fuzzy patch , but the mold could have spread already . " Once you 're able to see mold on bread , it means there 's quite a lot of mold , " said Nelken , a food consultant in Woodland Hills , California . " It 's indicative that there 's mold on other slices , just not at the level you can see it . Why jeopardize your health on a slice of bread ? " Nelken likened mold to jellyfish . " Even though you scrape off the head of the jellyfish , the tentacles are still in the food product . " Eating moldy bread could cause an upset stomach . Although most molds are innocuous , it 's probably not going to taste good , food experts said . The U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service recommends discarding moldy bread and baked goods , because of their porous texture .
It 's safe because freezing greatly slows ( if not completely arrests ) the growth of the bacteria that would otherwise make the meat spoil . It does n't kill them , it just puts them in ' stasis ' . The expiration date is given based on the meat only being refrigerated . If you intend to store the meat past its expiration date , best practice is to freeze the meat ASAP , and to use it within 24 hours of defrosting . The main hazard is in that defrosting . At no point should the chicken ( any part thereof ) be at room temperature for more than 2 hours . The safest method is to defrost the meat slowly in the fridge . You can also defrost it under cold running water , providing you keep it under the 2 hour mark . Of course , you can also cook the meat straight from frozen . There is absolutely nothing wrong with doing this for small cuts like chicken breasts . Slicing and cooking a partially defrosted chicken breast is perfectly safe , especially as it often easier to make really thin strips with semi-solid meat . You just have to be extra careful that the meat is at a safe temperature ( 170 ° F/75 ° C ) .
I 'm not sure if its dangerous , but if you are worried about the can you can get various tools , designed to cook a chicken like this .
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
I make kimchi regularly . It sits on a shelf at room temperature for a week or more , and slowly ferments . Some people ferment it for months . Sure , it likes a <URL> , but a few hours on a bus is n't going to hurt it .
I think it would depend on the cheese . For a reasonably hard cheese , like cheddar , I have done it , and never gotten sick ( your results may vary ) . If it 's pre-grated , then I would not touch it anymore . For a softer cheese , like a brie , I would not risk it .
In a cooking instruction , " low heat " does n't refer to the temperature the sauce reaches , but the speed at which you heat it up . Many stove rings ( hobs ) are marked min-2-3-4-med-6-7-8-max . On that scale , a low heat would be 2 or 3 . Very low heat would be min or 2 . Left on the stove long enough , even at min , your sauce will boil . The key about using low heat is that it probably wo n't boil in the amount of time you need to melt the cheese , and that 's good . I make cheese sauce regularly ( did so tonight ) and I start at med to melt the butter , turn it down while the roux cooks , add milk , once it 's pretty thick I turn it down even further , or just turn it off since an electric element will hold heat for a while , then stir in the cheese . If it ever happened that my cheese was n't melting I guess I would turn the heat back up a bit , but that has n't happened to me .
Not worth the risk , just throw it out . There 's no way to tell whether the smell was absorbed , or comes from bacteria in the food itself .
If you 're worried about getting sick , the only risky ingredient is raw eggs . I personally detest raw cookie dough ( it 's a texture thing ) , but our family routinely uses powdered eggs in our cookie dough so that my spouse and kids can eat the raw dough without any worry ( they seem to prefer the dough to the baked cookies ) . The cookies turn out exactly the same , we just end up losing about half the dough in the process to those crazy people who prefer eating the dough ...
Pasteurized milk is the standard way milk is sold in industrialized countries . How it 's packaged can depend on the country but it 's perfectly safe to drink provided it 's consumed by the " use by " date . <URL> : Pasteurization ( American English ) or pasteurisation ( British English ) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century . In 1864 Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine just enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage prevented these beverages from turning sour . This was achieved by eliminating pathogenic microbes and lowering microbial numbers to prolong the quality of the beverage . Today the process of pasteurization is used widely in the dairy and food industries for microbial control and preservation of the food we consume . Pasteurization is the reason for milk 's extended shelf life . High-temperature , short-time ( HTST ) pasteurized milk typically has a refrigerated shelf life of two to three weeks , whereas ultra-pasteurized milk can last much longer , sometimes two to three months . When ultra-heat treatment ( UHT ) is combined with sterile handling and container technology ( such as aseptic packaging ) , it can even be stored unrefrigerated for up to 9 months . This means that most of the microbes in the milk are killed and the milk is perfectly safe to drink right out of the carton . In fact , there are many jokes in the US about chastising teenage boys and young men about drinking directly from the carton/jug of milk . Milk in the US is regularly consumed direct from the gallon jug , see the note under Vitamin D that says " Pasteurized &amp; Homogenized " : Milk in Europe is often in <URL> cartons which do n't have to be stored in the fridge until opened and generally have a longer shelf life due to the UHT handling ( see definition above ) :
There are dozens if not hundreds of kinds of cheese in the world . Several kinds of non-shelf-stable cheese do not contain any added salt , just the natural salt content of the milk . Quark is a prominent example , paneer can also be made without salt . Of course paneer will reflect the taste of the acid that was used , for example lemon juice - it is up to you whether you consider it to be a seasoning or not . Cheeses that have a ripening time need salt for conservation purposes , so they are all salted . If you want to taste a low-salt cheese of this type , try Emmentaler - the traditional ones go as low as 0.5 % salt , and I am not even sure if this is added or not , so maybe it does n't even fall under your definition of " seasoned " . In addition , there are cheeses which also contain seasoning specifically meant to change their taste , for example wild garlic cheese or pepper cheese . These are added to the curds before pressing . Other types of cheese , like some cream cheeses or American cheeses , have seasoning added in an additional processing step . The seasoning in this step is highly varied , and can include not only the traditional herbs but also things like fungi or bacon pieces . And quarks are frequently seasoned with fruit at this step . So , there is a huge variety , and you can have seasoned or unseasoned cheese as you prefer .
The only difference between regular whole wheat flour and white whole wheat flour is the variety of wheat from which it is ground . Regular whole wheat flour is ground from red wheat while white whole wheat is from a lighter pigmented wheat and thus the lighter color . In both cases the germ is still intact and thus as Jonathan Campbell stated , it will go rancid more quickly than white flour . Keep it in a cool dark place and use up quickly if you ca n't refrigerate or freeze it . When you keep it in the refrigerator or freezer and plan to use it for yeast breads , remember to allow it to warm to room temperature before using for best results with your yeast .
According to ( US ) <URL> : ( c ) In accordance with § 184.1 ( b ) ( 1 ) , the ingredient is used in food with no limitations other than current good manufacturing practice . ( d ) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived . Basically , you can eat the stuff by the spoon-full if you can stand the sour . If you 're adding a lot compared to how much you think you should have to add , you might consider Phosphoric acid instead . You get a little <URL> with that , and it too , within limits , is generally regarded as safe ( GRAS ) .
So <URL> and <URL> suggest that there are 3 kinds of rinds . Summary below : Bloomy : Appears white , soft , maybe fuzzy . Can also be reddish/brownish . Comes on softer cheeses that have a more custard-like flavor . Formed by a spray of penicillium candidum before aging . Edible , but the flavor changes and may taste ammoniated over time ( consume so long as it 's palatable ) Washed : Color ranges from pinkish red to orange or brown . Caused by bathing the cheese in some kind of solution , be it a salty brine , beer , brandy , wine or some other alcohol . Contributes to the flavor in some cheeses , and tastes unpleasant in others . Natural : Formed by letting the cheese age on its own , drying out and growing whatever molds might be present in the cheese or air . Tends to have a concentrated flavor of the cheese , but may not be palatable . Examples : Stilton , Montgomery Cheddar , Parmigiano-Reggiano . Sometimes comes under a cloth cover . Should be edible , minus the cloth . Additionally , there are two other possibilities No Rind : There should be no guessing here . You 've probably had cheeses with no rind ... because they might come in a container . Ricotta , fresh mozzarella , and creme fraiche come to mind . Wax/Twig/Cloth : Inedible . Should be discarded My personal takeaway from this quick research is that I should learn to distinguish artificial covers ( cloth/wax ) from rinds . It seems like those that separate from the cheese will either be an artificial cover or an old rind , both of which are undesirable . If it 's indeed a rind , then I 'd taste it , both alone and with the cheese , to determine if it 's palatable . For Parmigiano-Reggiano specifically , I 've read that it goes well in soup . Perhaps this is because it 's unpalatable-y hard , but still contains the concentrated flavor . TLDR : look for cloth/wax . If none , is it tasty ? Does it feel good in the mouth ?
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
end question
start question
How to identify a good espresso ?
The standard espresso drink is the double espresso ( a double espresso shot ) . Although you can get single or triple espressos , if you are comparing quality , the double espresso is the standard . Regardless of which type of shot you order , if you are comparing quality across different cafes , you should always order the same thing ( ie do n't order a single at one cafe and a double at another ) . Once again for standardization , I would recommend ordering a double at each one . My explanation of good espresso will be about straight espresso ( no milk , no sugar ) in an espresso mug/cup . Here are some characteristics of a quality double shot : Temperature : The espresso should be quite hot when served . If it is only lukewarm or warm right after it is made , then the barista did not heat the cup that it was served in . It should be to the temperature where it is too hot to drink ( for most people ) . It should only take a minute or so to cool off . Perhaps two minutes . Crema : There should be a nice layer of crema on top of the espresso ( a few millimeters thick , completely covering the espresso ) . This comes from the release of carbon dioxide when the espresso is extracted under pressure . The color should be golden-brown to dark brown for a double shot . The color will not always be uniform , it will sometimes be slightly lighter where the shot actually poured in the spot on the crema . The crema should remain for at least three - five minutes if not longer . Taste : The espresso should be bitter , but not too bitter ( high levels of bitterness are more characteristic of espresso long shots ) . It should be rich , but not too rich ( again , high levels of richness are more characteristic of espresso ristretto shots ) . It should NOT be sour . If it is sour , it has been sitting for too long before being served or was over-extracted . It should not taste watery , this is usually a characteristic of under-extraction . Smell : Hard to describe for espresso and the aroma will vary a lot . One thing to avoid is a ' sour ' smell , which usually indicates a sour taste , as described above , or that the coffee being used is inherently too acidic . Consistency : Espresso is going to be thicker and more viscous than regular drip coffee , but it wo n't be syrupy . When you are done your espresso , the drop or two that remain at the bottom of the cup , when dried should leave a distinct brown residue on the bottom of the cup . Notes , and other things to keep in mind : You will have to remember that different cafes will use different varieties of beans for making espresso , so this is going to affect the flavor . Different cafes use different amounts of ground espresso and different amounts of water when preparing their espresso . The industry standard is 2 oz ( about 60 milliliters ) for a double shot , but in my cafe we do our double shots to 3 oz . Most importantly , learning to recognize good espresso is an experienced based endeavor , just like with wine , beer , or food . On a personal note , I love to do this with cafes as well ! I always judge the quality of a cafes espresso and ability by ordering my favorite drink : a double espresso long . In fact , I am going to a new cafe to do it today !! A Lovely Looking Cup of Espresso :
It is not a good idea to combine ANY teflon pan with an automatic dishwasher , regardless of what the manufacturer says . But fortunately for you , I have handy the Cook 's Illustrated from October 2010 , which did a nonstick skillet ( aka frying pan aka saute pan ) review . According to them , even the best nonstick coatings wo n't survive more than a year or two of heavy use . This makes proper care all the more important . Brand also is n't a good indicator of coating quality , because many pan manufacturers buy coatings from the same suppliers . To quote the article : Most cookware manufacturers do n't make their own nonstick coating ; they buy it from suppliers offering a menu of options , from basic to premium , and spray it on their pans . It 's similar to painting a room ; the quality of nonstick coating is determined not only by what 's in it but also by how carefully it 's applied and cured , and how many coats the manufacturer decides to put on . They found the Tefal ( T-Fal in the States ) Professional Total Nonstick Fry Pan ( $ 35 ) had a nonstick coating that outperformed the other pans by a significant margin , probably due to its 5-layer nonstick coating ( most pans use 2-3 layers ) . The only fly in the ointment was its handle , which had rivets that loosened after abuse . But , for $ 35 that is n't bad , doubly because it outperformed the $ 150 + All-Clad nonstick pans they used normally . If you 're looking for something cheaper than that , I 'd suggest you look at construction and not brand . Pick a heavy pan ( for its size ) , with either solid , thick-gauge aluminum OR a multi-ply construction . This combination ensures the pan will heat evenly and rapidly ( crucial for eggs ) , and is resistant to warping ( important if you use an electric range ) . If you 're cooking eggs , avoid hard-anodized aluminum interiors , as they do n't help prevent adhesion of eggs , and just cost more . The nonstick layer should look thick and smooth , not slightly textured . My most-used frying pan ( the default egg pan ) is a small T-Fal that cost all of $ 7 . The important thing is that it has the right construction and I treat it correctly ; I 'm careful not to scratch the surface with utensils , I never use a scouring pad on it , and it ca n't go near the dishwasher . This makes more of a difference than picking a fancy brand .
I would actually recommend the opposite of what was said above . Since the meat is so thin you may have much better results pan searing it in an extremely hot pan from slightly frozen . This way the outermost layer will start to undergo the maillard reaction long before the inside of the steak reaches a medium-rare temp and will give you a better chance of preventing it from overcooking . This link provides an overview of the process for a much larger piece of meat then your using but the searing process is what your concerned most with since your steaks are so thin . You will likely have to play with the timing a little bit with regards to how frozen the steak needs to start out but I figure erring on the side of too frozen is best since you can then heat them in the oven to the internal temp your looking for . <URL>
The answer , quite simply , is no . Even advanced laboratories have difficulty making the determination for certain . This is also a complex problem that gets more difficult as various standards are used and then fail . Before 2000 , a common solution was to simply use microscopic analysis to look for pollen and and other vegetable matter . Since then , many honey processing plants have been developing increasingly advanced filtering techniques that will remove the characteristic markers ( deliberately or unintentionally ) . [ ** See detailed note below . ] Various chemical or basic physical markers also have proved insufficient , since the sugar composition of honey can be faked quite well with various sugar syrup blends . The accepted standard these days , as mentioned in the question , seems to be to use a mass spectrometer to determine the <URL> in a rather specific lab procedure . ( Obviously most people do n't have a mass spectrometer at home . ) The current procedure for this test was adopted after previous lab tests were shown to <URL> in some batches of honey . The isotope ratio method is the only one specifically listed in the FDA 's <URL> to determine the possibility of adulteration : FDA laboratories do not have the instrumental capability to analyze honey according to the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC International , AOAC Official Method 991.41 , which requires an isotope ratio mass spectrometer . Ironically , in order to avoid the previous false positives for the New Zealand honey mentioned above , the new testing process <URL> , a process which has also been used to hide the origin of honey and to confuse analysis : To eliminate a false positive C ( 4 ) sugar test for Manuka honey , prior removal of pollen and other insoluble material from the honey is necessary to ensure that only the pure protein is isolated . But even a refined isotopic methodology is flawed when it comes to detecting various types of adulteration , specifically beet sugar . As <URL> notes : [ Using isotope ratios from a mass spectrometer , ] adulteration using C4 sugar syrups ( HFCS and GS ) could be detected to a certain extent while adulteration of honey using C3 sugar syrups ( beet sugar ) could not be detected . Adulteration by using SS ( beet sugar ) still has a serious detection problem , especially in countries in which beet is used in manufacturing sugar . So , what 's the alternative ? Well , the other general method that could detect various adulterating components is <URL> ( DSC ) . <URL> gives a good summary of the process , which essentially looks at how a material behaves as it undergoes thermal changes . At certain temperatures when crystallization or something occurs , there will be excess heat absorbed or given off compared to at other temperatures . And at other points there will be minor changes in heat capacity ( i.e. , the amount of heat it takes to alter the temperature of a substance by a specific number of degrees ) . Honey , for example , displays a glass transition temperature ( Tg ) around -40 ° C ( -40 ° F ) near a certain point in crystallization . Other sugar syrups may not show this , but they may show changes at slightly higher temperatures ( still below freezing ) , due to water crystals freezing or thawing . ( Water is included in the sugar network in honey , so it does n't show the same characteristics . ) There are other thermal properties that can be measured at various temperatures . As <URL> summarizes in its conclusion : Used concomitantly with the second enthalpy of fusion ( occurring between 40 and 90 ° C ) , the glass transition temperature , Tg , is one of the most potentially useful parameters for characterizing honeys and syrups and for distinguishing between them . The Tg value , being strongly dependent on the amorphous phases of the sample , will respond to modification of the chemical composition and the implicit structural modification caused by the addition of exogenous material . Thus , adulteration of the honey will cause inevitable changes in both Tg and [ delta ] H2 values . Under laboratory conditions , adulterations by industrial sugar syrups can be detected from 5-10 % additions depending on the measured parameter . I would pay particular attention to this final sentence -- the differences can only be detected " under laboratory conditions " where precise temperatures and amounts of heat can be measured . To replicate such a test at home , you 'd need to be able to add a certain precise amount of heat to the honey at subzero temperatures , all the while keeping it isolated from other sources of temperature fluctuations and observing where the heating " stalls " briefly . Then , you 'd have to calibrate your homemade test against some known samples ( syrups , 100 % honey , etc. ) just to be sure you 're actually observing the same things as in the article cited here . You 'd need to confirm that by observing a more subtle difference in heat capacity changes that would occur in hot temperature ranges
Depends on if you 'll buy for instant consumption or for storage . If you want to eat/prepare them right away , you want an avocado that feels soft on the inside , when pressing them they will cede and have that soft feeling ripe avocado has . It should n't cede very much though , as those are past their prime . The very good ones even smell in a nice avocadoey way a bit ( or maybe that 's just my insanity . ) If you want to prepare them later , you want firm ones that cede only a tiny little bit ( the rock hard ones mostly never ripen in my experience , ) you then store them in a porous bag ( the typical brown paper bag or a newspaper ) to let them ripe . To speed up the ripening , you can add an apple to the bag . See also <URL>
Boil the broth down more before adding the cornstarch . The broth will continue to thicken as it cools , so aim for a little thin/runny in the pan so it 's the right consistency on the table . Do n't be afraid to mix in the cornstarch in multiple , smaller batches . Edit : For gravy , I prefer the taste of flour to corn starch .
There really is n't another name for Dutch processed cocoa . You could perhaps look at the ingredients or label and search for some reference to alkalization . Cocoa powder , Dutched or natural , consists of a single ingredient : cocoa . The difference is that Dutched cocoa has an extra step in the manufacturing process . Normal cocoa powder is created from cocoa beans . These beans are fermented , roasted , shelled , and then ground into a paste known as chocolate liquor . This is roughly 50/50 cocoa butter ( fat ) and cocoa solids . At this step it is can be molded and sold as unsweetened baking chocolate . To make cocoa powder the liquor is hydraulically pressed to remove ~ 75 % of the fat , and then pulverized into cocoa powder . Dutched cocoa powder has an extra step before the shelled beans are ground into liquor . They are soaked in an alkaline solution of potassium carbonate . Dutched cocoa was created in the 19th century by a Dutchman named Coenraad J. van Houten . Van Houten had invented the method of using a hydraulic press to defat chocolate liquor . Hot chocolate in these times would have a fatty greasy scum floating on the top of the beverage . Removing much of the fat prevented this . However , it also made the drink much harsher , acidic , and gave it a much lighter color . Van Houten 's idea was to counteract the cocoa 's natural acidity ( pH ~ 5.4 ) by soaking it in an alkaline solution . This neutralized the acids in the cocoa raising the pH to neutral ( 7 ) or higher depending on the duration of the soak . The higher pH also has the added benefit of darkening the cocoa ; the higher it goes , the darker it gets . Now , you might think that mellowing out the cocoa would be undesirable for the flavor . However this has been shown to not be the case . It turns out that the very acidic nature of natural cocoa can actually mask many of the natural undertones of flavor in the chocolate . Chocolate is much like wine and has hundreds of flavors that make up its flavor profile . These include sour , bitter , astringent , fruity , figgy , nutty , floral , smoky , and may more . Dutching only targets the bitter , astringent , sour and fruity undertones allowing the remaining ones to really showcase the chocolate . There is a bit of misinformation that floats amongst bakers that the pH of the cocoa can affect the leavening of the baked good . Many recipes will actually sternly suggest using either Dutched or natural cocoa depending . This makes sense since leavening is a sort of balancing act that involves both acids and bases . However , it has been experimentally shown that this does not actually occur , and baked goods made with both Dutched and natural cocoa powder showed no differences in leavening . So to actually address your questions . Again , no there is n't another name for Dutched cocoa , but it ca n't hurt to check for alkalized verbage . There is ( should ) also no additional ingredient that would identify a cocoa powder as Dutched . The key property it provides is simply chocolate flavor . This answer is adapted from the Jan. 1 , 2005 Cook 's Illustrated review of <URL> . Their results showed that without fail Dutched cocoa was voted superior to natural cocoa in every single blind taste test including : pudding , shortbread , devil 's food cake , and hot chocolate ( which was masked by a sippy-top so reviewers could not see the tell-tale color ) . If the cost does n't make you do a double take ( it 's not really that expensive considering the quantity ) . I highly suggest you buy a 1 kg ( 2.2 lb ) bag of <URL> . This was the winner of the blind taste test performed by Cook 's Illustrated . I must agree that it will change your baked goods for the better like you would not believe .
There is nothing especially interesting going on in a hot compote . You can chill it as quickly or slowly as you want to , until it reaches the desired temperature . Food safety requires that you do n't keep it for more than 4 hours in the danger zone ( between 60 ° C and 4 ° C ) , but if it is in individual serving bowls , on-the-counter chilling should be enough . Also , do n't put large amounts of hot liquids in the fridge , you risk raising the entire fridge 's temperature to unsafe levels , and the inside of a large container wo n't cool quickly enough to leave the danger zone . If you made lots of compote at once and want it very cold , chill it in an ice water bath . The final temperature can be whatever you prefer . I eat my compote slightly colder than room temperature ( 15 ° C to 20 ° C ) . You can eat it fridge-cold , room temperature , or even hot , if it tastes better to you .
By grinding it , you are also increasing the surface are of the herb when it reaches the tongue , and you are exposing the raw/inner ( bitter ) flavors of the herb to the mouth . When cooking with it " un-ground " , the cooking process extracts just the oils from the herb , and leaves the leaf in tact which does not taste unpleasant to the senses . I would certainly use less of a ground herb , but my preference would be to leave it in it 's natural dried state , and if you want more taste just increase the quantity . The only exception I have for this is when making rubs , where the fat of the meat ( or oil for a bread dip ) typically complements the bitter flavor of the ground herb .
I do n't think a pork sirloin roast will stand up to that kind of cooking very well . That is a very lean piece of meat , which does not lend itself to long cooking times at low temperatures . That type of cooking is best reserved for cuts of meat with lots of fat and/or connective tissue . If you put a pork sirloin roast in your cooker for 8 hours on low , you 're going to have one tough , dry piece of meat when you are through . You would be better served by cooking it in the oven at higher heat , for a relatively short period of time , like 400F for an hour or so . Bear in mind , you 're not going to get to a fall-apart tender state with a sirloin roast . This is n't a pork butt with which you 're dealing , which you 'd take up to an internal temperature of 195F or more . Rather , you 're going to want to target the safe temperature , and no higher . You want the meat to be juicy . Cut into thinner slices to achieve maximum tenderness .
The main things that Parmesan cheese can add to a salad are fattiness and salt . The first thing that comes to mind for me is bacon . You could probably also make a yummy main dish salad ( or hearty first course ) by adding duck or a cured meat such as salami . If you 're not interested in adding meat , how about olives ? Those would serve similar purposes . Other options might be marinated artichoke hearts or mushrooms . Just make sure you choose ones that are n't too tart , as they might add to the effect of the lemon vinaigrette .
Putting the pan on the burner will deliver too much heat in too little time - aka a burnt layer . You want constant heat from the bottom during the whole cooking time . In an oven , your pizza stone is an excellent start , supplying a thermal mass . I recommend increasing the heat from the bottom compared to the heat from the top , even if this could slightly increase the total cooking time : Set your oven to " bottom heat " and / or put the pan on the lowest rack possible . A sheet of foil can also shield the pan from top heat .
I 've only had red amaranth , so apologies if that is distinct from the type you have access to . As I recall , spinach is a bit sweeter and the leaves are a bit softer so they break down more readily . Also I believe the stem on spinach is less fibrous . That said , they are both leafy greens and I 've yet to find a recipe so touchy that one leafy green ca n't be substituted for another .
You can certainly cut meat on these , I have a large end-grain cutting board that is too large to wash conveniently in my sink . There are a number of methods to clean them : Soap and Water Soap and hot water are best for regular cleaning . Just get a rag or brush and scrub it . Dish soap is just fine for this use . Make sure to rinse and dry it thoroughly . Vinegar If you do n't mind the smell you can use undiluted white vinegar to clean and sanitize your surface . If you keep some in a spray bottle you can just spray it down and wipe it with a paper towel . If you have a big oily mess , I 'd suggest starting with the soap &amp; water method , and finishing up with vinegar . Vinegar is apparently <URL> at killing microbes , surprisingly more effective than harsher quaternary ammonium solutions . Bleach A little goes a long way with this . You only need a teaspoon or two for a quart of water . Just spray it down thoroughly , let stand 5 minutes . Finish with rinsing and drying . Like vinegar this is best as a followup to soap &amp; water for a really messy board . Lemon If you have strong garlic , onion , fish , or other smells in your butcher block you can cut a lemon in half and rub the board down with the halves . Lemon juice is a weak antiseptic , so this should be used primarily for odor control and not as a sanitization substitute . Note that regular cleaning also requires regular seasoning of your block surface . You should oil your board/block once a week , or more with frequent use . See also : <URL>
This does n't look like a recipe for pizza dough , rather it looks more like a naan or flatbread recipe . I am not exactly sure what you are aiming for , but why not simply eliminate the egg and increase the milk ( or add water ) by a small amount to compensate for the lost moisture ?
While this is n't a substitute , you can get better deals on saffron and make it go further . First of all , do not buy it at a normal grocery store . It tends to be very expensive there . Instead go to a farmer 's market ( not one that happens every Thurs evening at the local church , but rather the big store ) . I 'd imagine most major cities will have one or more . Atlanta has at least 4 . Saffron is much , much cheaper at the farmer 's market . Second , thoroughly grind the saffron before using it . This will help the saffron more completely flavor a dish , requiring a smaller amount of saffron to get the flavor . A quick Google suggested Tumeric , but I ca n't really imagine that working , nor did a lot of the comments on the internets .
One of the most important things is a <URL> . The tang is an extension of the metal of the blade into the handle . In knives with a full tang it goes all the way through the handle . This improves stability , control , and durability . Cheaper knives with partial tangs will have the handle break off over time . In a chef 's knife you want a blade from 8 to 10 inches long , whichever is more comfortable . You can also either get a forged or stamped blade . I suggest reading <URL> on the differences . To summarize , forged blades are softer , easier to sharpen , heavier , and have a bolster . Stamped blades are sharper , harder to sharpen , lighter , and have a welded on bolster if any . With current manufacturing processes forged is not necessarily better than stamped . You should make your own decisions . All crap knives are stamped , but not all stamped knives are crap . This brings me to one of the most important points : It must feel good in your hand . Do n't buy an expensive knife just because it 's expensive , or you recognize the name . Go to a store that will let you use the knife , Williams-Sonoma is one that will do this . If you can , bring a carrot in your pocket and actually cut that in the store . I 'll do some research on steel quality and update this later .
In the cowboy days , the people traveling through the western desert would carry canvas sacks which they would fill with water . The water would seep through the canvas very slowly , and wet the surface of the bag . Evaporative cooling would then keep the water cold ( at least cooler ) . You could try something similar if you are in a dry climate ( the rate of evaporation determines the cooling effect , which is limited by the relative humidity ) . Wrap the food or drink in wet cloth , and hang or set in a shady location with some wind . Keep the wrapping wet .
Nigel Slater 's book <URL> might be useful to you . He devotes each chapter to a separate vegetable , and for each one he includes : Specific recipes Discussion of different varieties Comments on different cooking techniques Comments on effective seasonings and pairings There 's also some discussion of his attempts ( successful or not ) at growing different vegetables in his own garden .
I dug around a bit , and most people seem to agree that this is normal caper behaviour , though no one has made any real assertion as to why , other than that capers have varying density , and the brine does not . The usual tests for freshness ( do they look/smell/taste okay ? ) are recommended . Brined capers should last ~ 9 months from the time the jar is opened , or 3 years in a dark pantry unopened .
end question
start question
Why do the Japanese eat a lot of raw fish ?
I did a little bit of digging on the topic and found this TapTrip blog post : <URL> It also references a Cultura Bunka article in Spanish called <URL> To quote : During Muromachi Period ( 1336-1573 ) , japaneses [ sic ] used to transport the raw fish inside of baked rice to keep it conserved during long trips . Then , they started to eat this meal which was called sushi . [ ... ] But , making sushi was hard because took a long time and was a little expensive . Only during Edo Period ( 1603-1868 ) japaneses started to eat the raw fish freshly caught from the ocean with rice thanks to a sushiman called Hanaya Yohei . So it appears the short answer is indeed " just an accident of culture " ( or history ) so-to-speak . I will also quote from a short article <URL> * Raw fish dishses have been eaten since the Nara-era . At first , people ate raw fish pickled with vinegar as " Namasu " . Then , from the Muromachi-era , people started to eat " Sashimi " . And a bonus small bit on careful preparation of Sashimi : Sashimi is the main dish in the Japanese cuisine , and the cooks consider carefully the best way of cutting the fish , arranging the fish , shellfish and squid , give importance to the proper use of condiments , and the best combination of fish species when serving . The thickness of sashimi is determined according to the collagen ( main protein in the connective tissue ) content of the fish used . * [ Foods Food Ingredients J. Jpn. , Vol . 212 , No. 8 , 20 ] Keiko Hatae Wayo Women 's University 2-3-1 , Kohnodai , Ichikawa-shi , Chiba 272-8533 , Japan
I did a little bit of digging on the topic and found this TapTrip blog post : <URL> It also references a Cultura Bunka article in Spanish called <URL> To quote : During Muromachi Period ( 1336-1573 ) , japaneses [ sic ] used to transport the raw fish inside of baked rice to keep it conserved during long trips . Then , they started to eat this meal which was called sushi . [ ... ] But , making sushi was hard because took a long time and was a little expensive . Only during Edo Period ( 1603-1868 ) japaneses started to eat the raw fish freshly caught from the ocean with rice thanks to a sushiman called Hanaya Yohei . So it appears the short answer is indeed " just an accident of culture " ( or history ) so-to-speak . I will also quote from a short article <URL> * Raw fish dishses have been eaten since the Nara-era . At first , people ate raw fish pickled with vinegar as " Namasu " . Then , from the Muromachi-era , people started to eat " Sashimi " . And a bonus small bit on careful preparation of Sashimi : Sashimi is the main dish in the Japanese cuisine , and the cooks consider carefully the best way of cutting the fish , arranging the fish , shellfish and squid , give importance to the proper use of condiments , and the best combination of fish species when serving . The thickness of sashimi is determined according to the collagen ( main protein in the connective tissue ) content of the fish used . * [ Foods Food Ingredients J. Jpn. , Vol . 212 , No. 8 , 20 ] Keiko Hatae Wayo Women 's University 2-3-1 , Kohnodai , Ichikawa-shi , Chiba 272-8533 , Japan
You can get red jalapeños at some markets , but you 're right , most places sell them when they 're still green . They sell them for the same reasons they sell green bell peppers , which includes : some people prefer the milder , grassier notes ( or just do n't know better ) they 're cheaper to produce ( do n't have to wait for them to ripen , reducing water use ) they store and ship better ( as they 're not ripe yet ) . it lowers the risk of losing the harvest ( due to weather , blight , etc. from waiting 'til they 're fully ripe ) it reduces the number of field hands needed ( as they 're not trying to pick all peppers at the peak of ripeness ) if frees up the field for another planting . In the case of hot peppers , it 's more complex than the simple colored bell peppers -- the ripe peppers are often further processed ( smoked or dried ) and then sold under a different name : chipotle == smoked &amp; dried jalapeño ancho == dried poblano colorado == ripe anaheim
i have found that a lampe berger works well to eliminate strong scents after cooking ( http://www.lampeberger.us/ ) -- after all , they were originally invented to help reduce the odors in hospitals and mortuaries ! ( you can read about their history at wikipedia : <URL> ) . i use mine after a night of deep frying food to get that smell out . i 'm pretty certain it would work on fish just as well .
Certain people who are " super smellers " who have a heightened sensitivity to smells . Assuming you are n't one of them : fish smells " fishy " when it 's starts to age . If you can find a reputable fish monger , that would help . That said , if you 're sure you have fresh fish , and some fish just simply smell more , you can cut down on the smell , by a quick rinse and a <URL> . As for why fish smell fishy ... it has to do with <URL> . Amines get released as bacteria work to release them . Salmon , Tuna , others ... are higher in amines , while <URL> . You 'd have to do a bit more research to find out more specific species ...
According to <URL> , the main reason is that in raw packing , more air is introduced into the jar . This may lead to discoloration over time , which is an aesthetic issue , rather than a safety issue . Regarding hot packing , they describe the benefits : This practice helps to remove air from food tissues , shrinks food , helps keep the food from floating in the jars , increases vacuum in sealed jars , and improves shelf life . Preshrinking food also permits filling more food into each jar . They provide the following guidelines regarding which method to use : Use the hot-pack method , especially with acid foods to be processed in boiling water rather than a pressure canning method . The Raw pack method is fine for pickles and for vegetables to be processed in a pressure canner . See also : <URL> describing the differences , benefits , and reasoning in great detail .
To answer your main question , you can bake very just about any type of fish . Looking at that recipe though , down in the " tips " section , it suggests you use a flaky white fish . So in that category , you have lots of options , snapper , cod , tilapia , for starters . Their flavours are often a little more mild and will pair nicely with the tomatoes and other flavours in there . If you 're prone to overcooking it , take it out sooner . I find many fish recipes that give cooking times tend to get you to overcook it . It 'd done as soon as the fish " flakes " fully . Leave it any longer it will start to toughen quickly .
If you are speaking of a salmon filet , you must remove the pin bones one by one . The easiest way to do it is with tweezers or needle nosed pliers . This <URL> demonstrates the technique : Run the back of your knife across the line where the bones are , from tail to head , to make them pop out more . Pull each bone , on an angle towards the head of the fish
I would say no . The function of the egg in the cake is to go in raw , mix with the other stuff , and once the raw egg has penetrated and coated the other ingredients thoroughly , bind it all together with that bouncy , sticky solidified eggy property which comes into existence as the egg cooks . Cooking the egg first all by itself , then adding to a cake would be like drying some crazy glue , then grinding up that hardened crust and putting the resulting powder between two things you want to stick together . The gluing action is all over when the glue has dried .
Kudos to your wife for giving it another shot ! Let me start with what I feel is the most important part of my answer : find a good fish monger and make friends . If the supermarket is the best you can find , so be it , but learn the name of the person behind the counter , ask about the fish , be interested . Ask what 's just in , ask what 's fresh . If the fish is frozen at sea , ask if you can get some from the freezer instead of the stock in the case that 's been thawed and sitting all day . Ask to touch and smell the fish . Look at the stock - do the whole fish have clear eyes ? Does it smell like a dumpster ? Getting the freshest , best fish will help you and your wife enjoy it more . <URL> on shopping for fish . Now , on to your bullet points . Fish should never smell or taste " fishy " . Fishy smelling fish is a sign of bad fish . I find that a lot of my friends who say they do n't like fish have had experiences with poorly handled or old fish . Fish must be fresh ( or frozen at sea and handled properly afterward ) to be good . I 've stopped ordering fish in restaurants unless it specializes in fish ( and I do n't mean Red Lobster ) or is well known for their freshness . That said , some fish is certainly more strongly flavored than others . I <URL> here with a few varieties of mildly flavored fish . I do agree that flaky , white-fleshed fish is generally the mildest . Flatfish , like sole or flounder tend to be consistently mild . Tilapia has become an extremely popular fish lately . However if you do find a good fish monger , talk to him about it and you should be able to find plenty of interesting venues : monkfish has been called the poor man 's lobster , and I had some arctic char the other night that knocked my socks off . As for why white fish tends to be less strongly flavored than meatier fishes , I ca n't really answer authoritatively . My guess would be that meatier fishes tend to be more oily and fatty , which equals more/stronger flavor .
According to the crumb recipe on the Epicurious <URL> , the crumb mixture should be the texture of wet sand and then packed down on the mound of filling : 1 cup all purpose flour 1/2 cup sugar 1/4 cup ( packed ) golden brown sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon salt 6 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter , cut into 1/2-inch cubes Blend first 5 ingredients in processor . Add chilled butter cubes ; using on/off turns , cut in until mixture resembles wet sand . ( After mounding the filling in the crust , pack topping over and around apples . Bake pie on baking sheet in pre-heated 400-degree oven , until topping is golden , about 40 minutes ( cover top with foil if browning too quickly ) . Reduce oven temperature to 350 ° F. Bake until apples in center are tender when pierced and filling is bubbling thickly at edges , about 45 minutes longer . Cool until warm , about 1 hour . Serve with ice cream .
Texture is the main reason , but if you 're going to be blending the sauce , there can be off-flavors from cracking open the seeds . Even if you do n't blend it , they can be these slippery little things that I never much liked growing up . To reduce the amount of waste , you can : cook the sauce , then put it through a food mill to strip out the seeds and skins , thus keeping you from wasting the gel around the seeds . freeze the peeled skins , to save for when you 're next going to be making vegetable stock . collect the seeds and gel , then put it into a muslin bag and hang to let drip to extract ' tomato water ' . ( you typically use crushed tomatoes for this ... I do n't know for sure if the gel will go through the muslin ) . Tomato water is strange as it gives good tomato flavor , without the red color .
Skimming is for aesthetic purposes . The scum is denatured protein , mostly comprising the same proteins that make up egg whites . It is harmless and flavorless , but visually unappealing . Eventually , the foam will break up into microscopic particles and disperse into your stock , leaving it grayish and cloudy . The more vigorously your stock bubbles , the faster this process will occur . If the grayness or cloudiness bothers you but skimming is not an option for some reason , you can always remove the micro-particulates later through the clarification process used to make consomme .
There 's an old children 's story about making Stone Soup . In it , a penniless begger offers to teach people how to make his favorite recipe : soup , made from a stone ! He boils some water and drops a stone in , and while it 's " cooking " , keeps mentioning offhand things like " It 'd go great with some carrots " or " Celery would be lovely in this " . The townspeople rush off and get celery , carrots , potatoes , onions , and the like to add to the soup , until eventually , they 've made proper soup in his pot along with the stone . So basically , the whole " stone soup " thing was a clever con game by which the begger can eat for free ( or , in kinder versions than the one I recall , to trick the townspeople into learning a lesson about sharing ) . The stone adds nothing to the soup .
It was called <URL> , and indeed the ancient Romans used it , as did the ancient Greeks : Garum was prepared from the intestines of small fishes through the process of bacterial fermentation . Fishermen would lay out their catch according to the type and part of the fish , allowing makers to pick the exact ingredients they wanted . The fish parts were then macerated in salt , and cured in the sun for one to three months . The mixture fermented and liquified in the dry warmth , with the salt inhibiting the common agents of decay . Garum was the clear liquid that formed on the top , drawn off by means of a fine strainer inserted into the fermenting vessel . The sediment or sludge that remained was allec . Concentrated decoctions of aromatic herbs might be added . Flavors would vary according to the locale , with ingredients sometimes from in-house gardens . Like the fish sauce of today , it was extremely high in glutamic acid , AKA umami . In <URL> the author says : There appears to be no historical mention of fish sauce being used in Asia before the Early Middle Ages in Europe , which oddly enough is around the same time its use was dwindling in the remnants of the Roman Empire . That begs a question , right ? Did the concept travel , or did Asians develop it independently ? Greater minds than mine are working to definitively answer that question : ... flowed from west to east and was eagerly adopted by Asians on the Silk Road . The recipes for garum changed and adapted as they moved east and became nuoc mam and nam pla according to cultural preferences and what gifts the Asian seas had to offer . Archaeologists and food scientists are working to confirm these flows and linkages ... The production of garum and Asian fish sauce is virtually the same as well . Fresh fish and salt in some proportion ( recipes vary widely from 5:1 to 2:1 ) are layered in barrels , clay pits or earthenware crocks . Because of their large size , tuna were cut up before fermenting to prevent putrefaction , but most fish -- especially the small species are processed whole and intact . In Rome , oregano and other herbs were added at the production phase for both flavor and to suppress bacterial overgrowth , but this step is largely omitted in the production of Asian sauces . The vats are then left to ferment -- sometimes covered or sometimes uncovered ( Carthaginian and Roman ) in the heat and stirred every few days to a week to ensure even enzymatic digestion of the fish . From <URL>
Convenience : It 's more convenient and easier to monitor the temperature inside the home . The oven has a thermostat , where the grill temperature needs to be monitored and adjusted manually . No smoke left : Is could be assumed that the smoke has been exhausted . Too much smoke : The smoke flavor could become too strong if finished on the grill .
From what I 've read , caffeine content can be variable even within varieties . There are possibly seasonal variations , variations in harvesting and processing technique , variations in the original plants ... Psychological effects ( e.g. what smells perky to you ) might be just as strong , and steeping for 10 minutes instead of 5 might make as much difference as any choice of variant . So take any answer with a grain of salt , and do n't be afraid to simply go with what seems to subjectively work best for you . That said , <URL> than other sencha teas , and I believe compared to other Japanese green teas as well . ( I found similar information elsewhere ; it 's not just wikipedia . )
There are three good reasons to oil your pan beforehand : Your pan needs to be ready as soon as your batter is . For cakes , the batter can fall apart while you are greasing the pan . This is especially true for cakes that have air whipped in , such as genoise , which can fall apart in a few minutes . Recipes containing baking soda can lose their fizz in this time too . You ca n't forget to oil up the pan . In the heat of the moment , it 's very easy to forget to apply lubrication before transferring the batter/dough ; inevitably this wrecks the recipe . Greasing the pan is part of baking mise en place and should be done before main cooking . Mise en place is a key principle of professional cooking , and means " everything in place . " The idea is that ingredients should be prepped and ovens preheated , so you can do the actual cooking efficiently .
Japanese spicy mayo is made with <URL> and <URL> . You really just mix them to taste .
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
end question
start question
Are there alternatives to okra as a thickening agent ?
Strictly speaking most gumbo recipes I am familiar with rely on the use of a roux as the primary thickening agent . Sure the okra contributes somewhat but in my experience using a darkened roux is what is called for . Please keep in mind that the more you cook the roux the less thickening power it has so you need to use a little more .
It depends . If you need it to soften up for just a little while you can throw it in the mircowave for about 10-15 seconds . And by a little while , I mean the time it takes to make and eat a sandwich . Other than that , you can use the bread for breadcrumbs or croutons . Also , dry bread makes the best french toast you will ever have . Basically , you ca n't turn back time on a loaf but you can make it last longer by freezing it and thawing a slice at a time .
They are both soft-ripened cheese , and there are certainly many similarities , but they are by no means the same . Camembert is aged at least 3 weeks ; Brie may be aged as little as 1 week . Brie is generally drained for 18 hours ; Camembert is drained for 48 hours . Brie may be salted before aging ; Camembert is not . Brie is more often pasteurized than Camembert ( although " genuine " Brie is unpasteurized ) . That said , there are many different varieties of Brie and many different varieties of Camembert , and it would n't be too surprising to find at least one Brie that tastes exactly like another Camembert . Still , they are quite different - different moulds , different draining , different aging .
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
Yes , and Wikipedia has a <URL> of these scales ( with some further details in other portions of the article and the links ) . Basically , at least four of the five recognized primary " tastes " have a reference compound that other foods are compared to subjectively . For sweetness , a solution containing the test compound is diluted until sweetness can barely be detected by a human taster ( similar to the Scoville scale ) . Sucrose is given the reference value of 1 ( or sometimes 100 ) . Sourness is similarly rated in comparison to a dilute hydrochloric acid solution , saltiness is rated in comparison to a dilute table salt ( sodium chloride ) solution , and bitterness is rated relative to a dilute quinine solution . ( I 've not heard of any similar scale for umami . ) In most cases , the reference compound is given a value of 1 . The most common way to reference these scales is as the " [ taste ] index , " as in " Citric acid has a value of 0.46 on the sourness index , " which means it has to be diluted slightly less than half of how much hydrochloric acid would be for it to be on the threshold of human sourness detection . ( By the way , while these scales show us something , they are mostly useful for comparing single pure substances . For culinary purposes , their value is somewhat limited by the complex interactions among various tastes and flavor components . Even individual substances can change flavor depending on environment : for example , a complex molecule may taste relatively neutral at neutral pH , but with increased acid and thus sourness , it may acquire a salty flavor . )
This depends on what you mean by a gelatin " substitute " . What you have to understand is that while most hydrocolloids have gelling and stabilizing properties , they are not simply interchangeable . You ca n't substitute one of them 1-for-1 where you need gelatin and expect everything to just work . A great place to start would be the <URL> which , despite its name , is almost more of a cookbook , because it has detailed information on the properties of each hydrocolloid . <URL> is actually a stronger gelling agent than gelatin in the sense of having to use less of it to get the same strength , but you need to use it properly . The most important property of agar is that unlike gelatin , which gives hydration at temperatures as low as 50 ° C , agar requires a temperature of 90 ° C . In other words , you need to heat the water all the way to a rapid boil before the agar will actually " activate " . A light simmer is not enough . The other notable property of agar is syneresis , which is the loss of moisture over time . Agar sets extremely fast compared to gelatin and above room temperature , but unless you combine it with a small amount of <URL> , it will actually dry out . Otherwise , though , you can absolutely , definitely substitute agar-agar for gelatin if you actually get pure agar ( I made the mistake of buying the " dessert agar " once , which is not the same thing ) and hydrate/set it properly . In fact , the biggest concern with using agar as a substitute for gelatin is that you might end up with something too stiff , since gelatin produces a much softer gel . Perhaps the closest hydrocolloid to gelatin in terms of its properties is iota type carrageenan . Here 's a side-by-side comparison of the most important characteristics ( this is all taken from the HRC ) : Property | Gelatin | Carrageenan | Agar ------------------ + ----------- + ------------- + --------- <URL> | Yes | Yes | Yes Strength | Soft | Soft | Hard Elasticity | Elastic | Elastic | Brittle <URL> | No | Yes | No Hydration | 50 ° C | 70 ° C | 90 ° C Setting Temp . | 15 ° C | 40-70 ° C | 35-45 ° C Setting Speed | Slow | Fast | Fast Melting Temp . | 25-40 ° C | 45-80 ° C * | 80-90 ° C Viscosity | Low | Medium | Low Gelling Conc . | 0.6-1 .7 % | 1.0-1 .5 % | 0.2 % Syneresis | No | No | Yes You should be able to see by this how much closer carrageenan is to gelatin ; trouble is , it 's difficult to find , and you have to get the right kind ( the kappa type and other types have very different properties ) . There 's actually an even better type of carrageenan to use a gelatin substitute , if you can find it : It 's called <URL> and it 's specifically designed to be a gelatin replacement . I 'd like to also note for the record that the answer in your <URL> is not really appropriate for gelatin desserts that need to hold their shape . Xanthan gum is a fantastic and versatile hydrocolloid but ( to the best of my knowledge ) it does not " set " the way that gelatin , agar , or carrageenan do . It 's more of a thickener/emulsifier/stabilizer , at its highest concentrations being used to produce foams ( but not gels ) . It 's often used to stabilize other gels/foams but I 've never heard of it being used to create a gel on its own . Guar gum is also largely just a thickener , that you could use a stabler replacement for corn starch or arrowroot , which is also mentioned in that answer . None of these are appropriate at all for gels ( desserts ) , they are only useful as thickeners .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
Toasted almonds match well with hazelnuts , cumin , nutmeg , rosemary , vanilla and cinnamon . Cranberries do match well with garlic , lime , chili and onion . So from a flavor-pairing point of view , if you want a spicy dip , it would be better to make a cranberry dip in itself with cranberries , sugar , chili , pineapple and coriander , like a chutney . Mustard is a gamble . Cranberries do match well with some acidity , like lime or pineapples . I would be worried about the vinegar to be too stingy . If it 's a garlic-based dip , I would focus on garlic , onions , rosemary and cumin .
You should only start using one if you have a pressing need . That is tongue-in-cheek , but unless your have a need , there is no ' should use ' . One such need may be hygiene ( or saving effort , or lack of strength in the hands ) , but only you can determine whether that 's true . UPDATE : original post was modified ( and better for it ) As in the earlier answer , benefits may be : Hygiene Economics ( more juice from your lemon , if normal squeezing is n't enough for you ) Speed / efficiency Catches the seeds for you A possibly disadvantage may be that it mangles your lemon skin ( depending on type ) , which you might still want to use . On the other hand , models may also exist that allow you to squeeze efficiently after you 've scraped some of the skin ( if you needed to ) , which can be a hassle if done by hand . As to specific models : I do n't use any . ( probably just use the orange juicer if I had a bunch . Like hobodave - do n't need another singletask device that sees uncommon use ) .
Growing up , my mother always used to bake them . They do turn out a bit drier than if you deep-fried them , but not overmuch . They cook for about 15-20 minutes at 400 ° F ( ~ 200 ° C ) , or until golden and crispy on the outside . Alternately , you can pan-fry them , as other answers have suggested . Or you can split the difference and oven fry them . If you 're unfamiliar , Google can acquaint you with the process . Here 's a good NPR article to get you started : <URL>
We get a bushel of apples every year and make and freeze pies . We do a double crust without problem . We put a couple of tablespoons of flour on the bottom for the juices , but we do that for fresh pie as well . We use tin and pyrex , whatever we can get our hands on . The main concerns we have is the apples juicing too much in the pie , so we assemble and freeze them as fast as possible . ( And we made 18 two weeks ago Saturday ) so every time one is done we run it down to the freeze to freeze it immediately , we freeze them uncooked . Do n't thaw the pie as again the fruit will have time to juice . We unwrap it ( we wrap ours in plastic wrap and then foil to protect the foil from some of the acidic fruits ) and put it in the cold oven and start cooking it as normal . My family has frozen , apricot , apple , and blackberry . Also when doing the pies en mass like this , we roll our open crusts for the holidays as well , since the mess is already made . These are for the pumpkin , banana , and chocolate pies . The crusts alone we do let thaw before cooking , as they cook so fast .
Good question @mfg . I hope I can help a little bit . The basics behind the egg wash are to provide for a couple different thing . These being shine , crispness , and color . Shine The shine is primarily provided by the egg yolk . The higher concentration of yolk the more shine . Crispness This come from the egg whites . The whites make things a little crispy and sometimes can crackle a little bit ( mainly when usually by themselves ) . Color This comes from the fat and protein . Leaving the yoke in along with the shine will add color . You can add water to lighten the color a bit . I find that using the white also dilutes the color a bit but not as much ( but the white also makes it crisp ) . Add cream or milk to get it a little bit darker . Salt I often find people adding salt to an egg wash . I does provide some flavor to the crust , but I have noticed that for some reason ( when using a whole egg ) it does allow it to get a little darker than it would normally . Sugar Like salt it adds flavor ( sweetness ) to the crust . And it will also add some color . Especially if baking at a higher temp and using a raw or brown type sugar . Alcohol I have seen the use of alcohol quite a number of times . From the results I have seen it behaves like water . Although not the the same degree . My guess is that it has to do with how fast the alcohol evaporates . As far as flavor , I ca n't say that it added much at the levels used . I did once definitely get a hint of a bourbon being used in the wash on a pretty plain white loaf . But they did mix in quite a good amount of bourbon to just an egg yolk . That is all I have really used myself or seen . I am sure that you can use other liquids although I do n't know what vinegar would do . Just keep in mind if they are high in fat , protein , or sugar they will add color . Otherwise they will lighten the color . I have also seen melted butter just used as a wash . It adds a nice color and buttery flavor . I have n't seen it added to egg wash but I would assume you could add to egg yolk to get a shine and probably darker color than cream/milk . Another important thing to remember is to beat your wash well when using for a bread coating . Unlike if your just using the was was to seal say a ravioli . If your egg was is spotty not one nice fully incorporated mixture your crust can also be spotty .
The slime is called mucilage . It is around the seeds on the inside of the pod . It is made of protein and carbohydrates including fiber . The mucilage is ( as you alluded in your question ) used for thickening gumbos and similar stews . Besides this , I 've only ever seen it referred to as an annoyance and avoided by leaving the pod whole or dry cooking like frying . I imagine there could be some creative halloween uses of mucilage but those would be off topic for this site . :) EDIT I was embarrassed that this answer was the accepted answer . I do n't like answers that are ( as mine was ) " no that is n't possible because I 've never heard of it . " I was hoping someone else would shatter my world with some amazing new use of okra slime . My curiosity piqued I used some of my copious free time while code compiled to do some more research . I was able to find a couple of non traditional okra recipes that seemed interesting - such as candied okra slices or using the seeds from pickled okra as a caviar-like dish . But none of them took advantage of the mucilage - they all avoided it . Carbohydrate based mucilage is used in ice cream and for other reasons . I found the following study about food health that did experiments with replacing milk fat with specifically okra mucilage ( they refer to it as " okra gum " ) <URL> Two pertinent quotes : " Although not currently produced by food manufacturers , previous studies produced fat-free chocolate bar cookies with acceptable sensory characteristics using okra gum as a fat ingredient substitute . " " Specifically , color and smell of frozen dairy desserts containing okra gum replacement for milk fat did not significantly differ from the control product . Texture , flavor , aftertaste , and overall acceptability ratings also averaged five or higher ( neutral to like ) for all products . " The study was about replacing milk fat where I think it would be more interesting as an enhancer as you asked in your question . It seems perfectly reasonable that okra mucilage could find a place in more modern recipes . But I could n't find anyone doing it .
In my experience ( I 'm Texan , I 've seen my share of okra ) , 2.5-3 " is pretty small , and 6 " is on the big side but I would n't expect it to be inedible . It 's certainly going to be much more tender at 2.5-3 " ; there 's no possible way it 'll be too tough to eat . Larger does mean tougher , but at that size they might still be okay ( for example <URL> says 4-6 " is good ) . It looks like different varieties can have pretty different sizes - for example , this <URL> is supposed to be best at 6-7 " but still be good at 14 " ! In any case , test the okra you have ; no reason to choose just based on the length . Just try cutting it with a sharp knife , and if it 's really hard and fibrous , you 'll know . If it 's borderline , any sort of long stewing method will be your best bet . You 'd also want to cut it fairly thinly , so that you do n't have very long fibrous strands to try to chew . If it 's really too hard to soften even like that , you might still be able to get some use out of it as a thickener but I do n't think you 'll ever be eating it on its own . If you want to try thickening with it , I 'd cut it into bigger chunks , so that you can easily fish them out once they 've done their work .
There are cultured soy and coconut milk products ( generally sold with yogurt ) which can be used as a sour cream substitute ; it 's frequently advisable to add a little extra vinegar or lemon juice as these products do n't generally provide as much kick as real sour cream .
To some extent , this is a question to which the answers are necessarily quite subjective . However , as a general guideline , I would suggest that you look at the bread as just another ingredient in the dish -- not as somehow distinct from the filling choices . Like any other ingredient pairing , you can evaluate the characteristics and choose things to complement each other . So if you pick your bread first , evaluate if it 's rich or mild , savoury or sweet , dense or light , crusty or soft , thin or thick , etc , and then choose fillings to complement those properties . For your fillings , there 's not only the flavour pairing of the filling and the bread to consider , but also the texture/properties of the filling . A dry filling might not be as pleasant on a dense bread because the texture would be too much the same . Similarly , a saucy filling needs an appropriate bread selection to contain it and make it easy to eat . Many pairings that are considered standard will just taste " good " to us because of tradition and familiarity , but originally , someone probably put them together for a reason . That does n't mean it 's not worth trying something different , though . With the globalization of cuisine , we have many more filling/bread choices available and you might find a new favourite by pairing a bread from one culture with a filling from another , based on their complementary qualities .
I think you 've answered your question yourself . You use the bean itself to make vanilla sugar , so obviously there is much flavour in it as well and not just in the seeds . My experience is that you get much more flavour out of the pod if you let it simmer in warm milk/fluid .
Okra is great in curry . I 'll do an okra and tomato curry , but you can find plenty of recipes online .
With flax seeds I like using 1T of seed ( ends up being 2.5 T of powder ) to 3T of water , and use it for thing that are suppose to be light like cake or something that needs a nutty flavor . But with chia seeds I use exactly 1T of powder to 3T of water ( ends up looking like egg whites ) and use it in brownies , cookies and so on . Also chia does n't add flavor like flax does . ** For me chia is definitely stronger . The first time I used a chia egg I thought it was like a flax ( 1T seed = 2.5 T powder ) but I was wrong , my baked good came out very dense in the middle and tasted raw . You can still use a chia but you have to be exact . Also a chia egg will become very thick and gloppy once it 's mixed with water whereas a flax just get gooey .
I think this is a good question , as it is an issue that is frequently misunderstood . There is an aromatic flavoring called angostura bark , though it seems to be more used in traditional medicine than in any food or cooking situation . Angostura brand bitters , on the other hand , do not actually contain the bark at all -- they are instead a brand -- House of Angostura -- named for Angostura , Venezuela . As a flavor , this formula belongs to a class of bitters called " aromatic bitters " ( as opposed to , say , <URL> . Angostura is probably the best-selling brand of aromatic bitters , at least in the US , but they are by no means the only player . Fee Brothers and Peychaud 's are both popular alternatives . Though there is a fairly wide variety among aromatic bitters , and their formulas are secret , they do have some commonalities . For example , <URL> tends to be the strongest flavor . They are also , as the name implies , very aromatic , so that a " dash " or two is plenty to flavor a drink .
end question
start question
How to set yogurt in the room temperature between 20 to 16 degree Centigrade ?
You can make the yogurt in an insulated container , like a thermos bottle . A wide-mouth bottle will probably be best . Pour hot water in and let it sit for a minute or two to warm up , then pour it out . Heat and add your milk and starter culture as usual .
Making <URL> means letting <URL> alter the texture and chemical composition of milk by digesting lactose and producing lactic acid , which in turn interacts with the proteins in the milk , causing the milk to thicken and taste sour . Unlike in cheese making you are not separating curds and whey , so you are not " losing " significant amounts of substance . Yes , there might be some fluctuation - an increasing number of lactobacillae and them eating lactose - but on a very small level . For our general kitchen precision , 500 g milk makes 500 g yogurt . Side note : 500 ml milk is not exactly 500 g , in fact , it 's 510 g according to my sources , but I consider these values precise enough for general cooking purposes . Otherwise , you ca n't even stir , as minute amounts will remain on spooons or in your pots and pans . This is a kitchen , not a lab .
This is not an argument you can win . Say your prepared food item is a raw carrot . Clearly carrots are safe at room temperature for weeks and months . They might get rubbery and unpleasant , but they are n't going to make you sick . You can probably even prove this . Now consider a bowl of chicken stock . Rich in both nutrients and water , bacteria are going to love growing in it and even an hour or two at room temperature might be dicy . And between those two things you have items like baba ganoush which , yeah , is probably ok for a few hours . But that 's not the point . Inspectors and rules ca n't do " spectrum " and they ca n't do " read the ingredient list " or " read the ingredient list and cooking instructions " ( since raw beaten eggs would poison you way faster than a hardboiled egg would . ) They need a simple rule that inspectors and vendors alike can understand and enforce . The actual facts of how that particular dish spoils do not and can not come into it . Customers , vendors , and inspectors need to see at a glance " yes , this place is following the rules " not " well , that might be ok but I 'll need to see whether or not they have icing sugar in this version " . It 's not about what would be safe at home . It 's not about the science of bacteria growth . It 's about overall consistency and overall safety . A beautifully-optimized set of rules with 10 or 20 or 50 categories might feel fairer , but would confuse entry-level employees , require tons of signs , labels , written procedures etc , and a vendor would never be completely confident that an inspector would n't say " this isnt A-1B dip , it 's clearly A-2B dip and I 'm writing you up ! "
Cacio e Pepe is a great traditional roman dish ( I 'm roman ! ) . The ingredients are : pecorino cheese , 160g for 4 people ( I use <URL> , but you can use an equivalent sheep ( not cow ) cheese ) . Freshly ground black pepper olive oil ( optional ) Boil the pasta in salted water . In the meantime heat some olive oil in a pan . Keep in a little bowl some pasta cooking water and drain the pasta about one minute before the suggested cooking time ( it will continue the cooking in the pan ) . Put the pasta in the pan and add the cheese and some cooking water , about two ladles ( the starch will help to bind the cheese and make the sauce creamy ) , whisk for a minute . Add a lot of pepper . Another way to do that is to whisk directly in an hot bowl ( or in an hot dish , but it 's a little harder ) , to use this methodology I suggest you to see <URL> , it 's in italian but there are a lot of pictures ( plus google translate ) .
The only way I know is by adding some more liquid and warming the mixture , It may or may not improve things ... For what its worth , the consistency of the jam after cooking , tends to be related to the amount of sugar added for a given fruit , with hard skinned fruit typically requiring a slightly different process to soft skinned fruit . It 's also controlled by the amount of pectin added to the brew as well as the overall cooking time and temperature .
Frozen yogurt made with full fat yogurt is very creamy and full flavored . You might find that the eggs are unnecessary . If you do do the custard watch you temperature carefully as yogurt curdles easily when it is heated . If you have a lot of fat in the yogurt then it will be resistant to curdling otherwise you can take out some insurance by mixing in a little bit of corn starch - if that is allowed . Honey is perfectly fine and many frozen yogurt recipes call for it .
Yes . Make it again and do n't add horseradish . I 'm totally serious - no traditional hummus recipe in the known universe has horseradish in it . There is nothing you are going to be able to do to your existing batch to remove that flavor , other than diluting it , but I do n't think you 'd be able to dilute it enough to be worth the effort .
The resting period is not generally done by an absolute temperature -- you would have measured for ( near ) your target temperature before before taking the piece out of the oven or off the griddle or whatever . Traditionally , it should be proportional to the size of the cut or roast . 5-10 minutes is good for a steak or individual chicken pieces , depending on their thickness Medium size roasts and smaller poultry , say 10-15 minutes Large roasts and large poultry ( like a turkey ) , up to 30 minutes . If you do want to measure by temperature for more precise results , Kenji Alt of <URL> recommends based on practical experimentation , for steaks : Ideally , no matter how well-done you 've cooked your meat , you want to allow it to cool down until the very center has reached 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) . At this stage , the muscle fibers have relaxed enough that you should have no problem with losing juices . He also reviews some of the science , and various explanations for why the resting works . Cook 's Illustrated 's <URL> performed an experiment with several roasted pork loins , cutting them with no resting , or resting of 10 , 20 , 30 , and 40 minutes . They found that even a 10 minute rest cut down on juices expressed by 60 % compared to the unrested roast . They found far less difference in the roasts that were rested for longer periods , although there was continued improvement in the juice retention . They summarize ( original emphasis ) : So what to do ? Curb your enthusiasm and let your meat rest . But not for too long . The most dramatic decrease in moisture loss for these pork loins took place during the first 10 minutes of rest . Additional time helps -- but not if that means your dinner will be cold . If you 're cooking a big roast , you can wait longer -- about 30 minutes . Thin steaks should only wait 5 to 10 minutes before you dig in . This shows that the traditional advise on resting times is actually fairly effective . Note : Thanks to <URL> for sharing this reference .
You said that you 're using deep pans to get the right shape for decorating . If you 're using something deeper than the recipe calls for , you should expect to have trouble . It will take longer to bake through , while the top and bottom overcook , and if you 've gone too far , the structure may not hold up as well during baking . You can probably get away with something 25-50 % taller than the recipe is meant for , baking longer at a lower temperature , but in general , you should really try to use the correct size pan , and make multiple layers if you want something taller . Wrong sized pans aside , reducing the temperature is definitely the best first thing to try . In pretty much all types of cooking , burning some parts before cooking others is a sign of too much heat . You should also check the temperature of your oven . Ovens thermostats can easily be significantly off . If you 're having this problem with multiple recipes , it 's plausible that yours is too hot . Depending on the source of your recipe , it 's also possible that whoever wrote it was compensating for a too-cold oven . Also , make sure that the cake is centered in the oven . The top of the oven is hotter , and too high a rack can definitely cause overbrowning on the top . Of course , if you lower it too much , you may overcook the bottom . Shielding the top with foil is also very effective . If it 's just that this is a particularly sensitive cake , I 'd definitely try loosely covering with foil . Protecting the pie crusts is such a common version of this that you can buy pie shields , rings of metal to cover just the outside edge . I would n't try to turn your oven into a steam oven for this ; steaming will affect the texture of the surface of the cake .
A mixture of flour and water at room temperature is a very hospitable growth medium for many bacteria , yeasts , and molds ; and indefinitely is a long time ... Even if you are extremely vigilant when it comes to kitchen hygiene , the mixture will eventually start to grow some form of microbes . This process could take a week or more to become obvious . If you use the batch up within a week or so it is unlikely to cause any problems . For longer storage you should refrigerate the dough and/or add salt ( in the proportional amount you would use for bread ) . If it develops an off smell or visible mold you are better off throwing it away . Keep in mind that hydrating flour , especially whole grain flours , activates amylase enzymes that break down starches into simple sugars . This process , called autolysis , improves browning and flavor , but if allowed to go on too long it leads to a gummy crumb or poor overall structure .
Use a meat thermometer . If you overcook the chicken , it will dry out . The standard temperature for chicken breast is 160 degrees Fahrenheit .
Overly sour yogurt is a sign of inconsistent inoculation Check the type of culture you are using , and ensure you are keeping the yogurt above 37C for more than six hours . The yogurt should finish as a solid lump that resists pouring , not a thick liquid , or a lumpy paste Pouring off the whey and straining the yogurt makes it more creamy and taste sweeter Thickeners are not required , just complete inoculation For sweet yogurt dishes I mostly use sour berries ( blackberry , raspberry etc ) so it is expected to be somewhat sour anyway
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
My guess - and this is just a ( somewhat educated ) guess - is that it 's just to promote more even cooking . Since you 're talking about a layered dish , some parts are definitely going to cook faster than others . If the entire dish starts from room temperature , as opposed to fridge temperature , then that means less time is required to cook it through . Less time and less heat required to cook means that all of the layers will be more likely to end up at similar internal temperatures - as opposed to having burned bread , liquefied cheese , or rubbery eggs ( I 'm not sure offhand which cooks the fastest ) . Even if it 's not an issue with the thermal capacities of your individual ingredients , you 're also layering these each several times over , creating a very dense product , so there would still be a significant risk of the middle layers being undercooked , or the outer layers being overcooked . You might be able to bake it straight out of the fridge ; however , you would definitely have to increase the cooking time to account for the temperature difference , and there are a lot of variables that come into play which would affect how evenly it cooks : the intensity and location of your oven 's heat source ( s ) , the density of the casserole , the kind of baking dish you use - I probably would n't chance it , at least not when preparing this for other people . You tend to see the same recommendation for anything particularly dense , such as a roast , or anything layered , such as a lasagna , and generally , you do want to follow those recommendations for the same reason . They cook rather poorly if you cook them from cold or frozen , leaving you with a charred surface and an only-mostly-cooked interior . It can still happen even if you start off at room temperature , but it 's less likely and the effect tends to be less pronounced .
Strangely enough , I do live near Campinas ( where UNICAMP belongs ) , where water once " was " <URL> ! ( non-english site ) , what a coincidence ! I 'm noticing the local water smell is terrible in chlorine , I wonder they 're adding water in milk or cows are drinking thw water , very strange ... I will buy milk from differente towns and test this again .
There are a variety of ways to make yogurt . One that might be " easy " would to use a thermal cooker ( giant thermos flask ) if you happen to already have one , which would be under the " maintain temperature " ( actually temperature will fall , but slowly ) classification - but if you already have one , it 's no extra cost or equipment needed . Others have a thermostat and heater , but it 's rarely an adjustable thermostat . I am currently using a dehydrator which is adjustable as my temperature control device ; I have in the past used an oven with a standing pilot light ( not adjustable , but a good temperature . ) Regardless of which type you use , you need to cool the milk ( after scalding ) to 35-40c before adding the yogurt culture ( a small amount of any yogurt with live culture ) or you will kill the culture - so you ca n't just dump 80C milk into " whatever " and expect yogurt , regardless of temperature controls or lack of temperature controls . My research and personal testing W.R.T. the tradeoffs of time and temperature has lead me closer to 35C ( for up to 24 hours ) than 40C as a default setting . On the other hand , some go as high as 45C .
Time for a safety lesson . When you are dealing with food products that can spoil , what you are concerned about is the <URL> , which is the temperature range at which bacteria multiplies fastest . While specific numbers will vary , a decent rule of thumb is 4-60 degrees Celsius . What that means is any food prone to spoilage must be kept out of that temperature range , and if it is going to be within that temperature range , it must be for less than four hours , aggregated across the product 's lifetime . What this also means is that when you are chilling hot food you need to do so as fast as possible , in order to minimize the time spent in the Danger Zone . Foods that are dangerous are the ones you would expect : anything which requires refrigeration . Potatoes , for example , are perfectly safe to keep at room temperature when raw , but must be refrigerated once cooked . ( Perhaps a poor example , as potatoes fare better when kept below room temp but above fridge temp , but you catch my drift I hope ) . So we 're talking about raw meats , most dairy ( very hard cheeses may be kept at room temp with no ill effects other than possible softening ) , many vegetables and fruits , that sort of thing . Eggs and butter can be considered a somewhat special case ; eggs can be kept at room temp with few problems ( and in fact eggs used to be kept right out on kitchen counters , in the shell of course , not after they have been cracked ) , while butter can generally be kept at room temperature for a few days before the fats will start to become rancid ( anecdata : we never kept butter in the fridge when I was a kid , except for butter my mother needed for baking , where the temperature is a matter of physics in the recipe , and not health . Never had any problems . ) Harder vegetables -- potatoes , carrots , parsnips -- can generally be kept at room temp without problems , as can many fruits -- apples , oranges ( all thick-rind citrus really ) , bananas , and so on . So . According to the food safety experts , you absolutely should not leave even cooked poultry out overnight , as any bacterial contamination will be severe after a few hours . In real terms , unless you are very young/old or immunocompromised in some way ( e.g. leukemia , chemotherapy , HIV/AIDS , etc ) you 're probably going to be okay . I am a professional chef , and at home I 'm pretty lackadaisical about expiry dates , how long most things have been sitting out , etc. . In the context of work , however , I am extremely anal about rapid chilling/heating and keeping food safe , and I will always advise other people to be cautious with their food ; what I choose to do with my own body is my concern . When In Doubt , Throw It Out is always good advice ; there 's a reason it was stencilled across the inside of the walk-in refrigerator door at one restaurant I worked at . You should also bear in mind that much of the time bacterial contamination is not detectable by the eye , nose , or tongue until it has become severe . Even when contamination is not detectable with our senses , serious illness can occur ( see , for example , recent outbreaks of E. coli , listeria , and salmonella , none of which can be detected with eyes/nose/tongue ) . So the ' smell test , ' while in use by almost everyone who cooks food , is really not all that reliable as a gauge for spoilage ; taste and smell can definitively say that a given product has gone bad , but it can not say that a given product is definitively okay to eat . ( As a side note on food safety , if cheese has gone mouldy , do n't trim off the mouldy bits . Just throw it out . While much of the time any such mould will be entirely harmless , it 's not worth taking the chance over , especially given that if mold has bloomed on the surface of the cheese , spores will be present on the entire surface , with penetration into the cheese itself . Seriously , just toss it , and re-examine how you store your cheese and/or how much you 're buying at a time ) . Even easier to remember : keep hot food hot ( above 60C ) and cold food cold ( below 4C ) . Make things hot as fast as possible , and cold as fast as possible . ( Note that I am a cooking professional , not a medical professional , and nothing here should be construed as medical advice . Always err on the side of caution . )
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
According to reviewers on <URL> and this <URL> , you should bake the waffles in an oven preheated to 220C ( 430F ) for about 9 minutes . If the outside gets done before the inside , drop the temperature so you can bake longer . Other , more obscure sites and blogs say the same thing . Did your box not include a recipe book ?
Many of the commercial yoghurts use stabilizers like <URL> to prevent the yoghurt from separating during transport . All fruits naturally contain pectin ( some more than others ) , so one option , if you are making your own yoghurt at home , is to add some fruit to it . Here in the US , supermarkets carry small bags of dry pectin powder ; if you can get some of that , you could try adding it to your yoghurt . Another option is to initially heat your milk to 85 ° C for a half hour before cooling it and adding your yoghurt starter . This heating serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it gets rid of some of the excess moisture through evaporation , and ( 2 ) the heating will denature ( i.e. , stretch out and relax ) some of the milk 's proteins . Denatured proteins will be able retain more of the liquid that is in the final product . Finally , you can add powdered milk to the mix ( about 125ml of powdered milk per liter of milk ) . Powdered milk is basically just milk protein , so the added protein will help contain some of the final liquid .
end question
start question
How do I make homemade Salsa thicker ?
There 's a few types of salsa -- salsa fresca ( aka pico de gallo , aka salsa cruda ) , which is " fresh salsa " and uncooked , and if made fresh , it should n't be too watery ( unless you add to much liquid , eg , lime juice ) , but letting the vegetables sit after salting will start to draw out extra liquid and could become watery . For truly thick salsa , you have to treat it like a jam , and cook it to release the pectin in the tomato . ( or I guess you could use some other thickeners ... I 've never tried . tomato paste , maybe ? ) You do n't necessarily have to cook the other ingredients , too , but I personally like roasting the peppers and onions to sweeten then up and remove some of the extra liquid . ( halve the peppers and seed them , lay them on a tray cut side up with the onion cut into wedges , roast 'til they 're softened , then dump into a food processor and either pulse or liquify it , depending on how chunky you like it . And the skin falls off the peppers , so I leave 'em out ) . You can do the same roasting with the tomatoes , and it 'll be thicker from the food processor , but you wo n't get the same cling without letting them cook slowly in liquid to develop the pectin . If you roast the tomatoes , I like to use plum tomatoes , as they have more " meat " to the gel around the seeds , and take out the gel and seeds .
I think you may reach the point of diminishing returns if you try and fix your oven because there 's lots that could be going wrong . It could be that your oven design is just bad , in which case you ca n't fix it anyway . It could be a faulty temperature sensor , or a bad gas valve , or a faulty burner . Your gas supply pressure could be inconsistent . By the time you replace all these you 'll have spent more than a new oven would cost . I 'd first clean it really well . Get all the dust and gunk out and see if that helps . Then you should see if you can find a pro who can have a look at it , test the gas supply , see if there 's any quick wins . One suggestion I 'd make would be to post this on the <URL> forum , the home improvement site . As this is more a question about mechanics and repair you 're likely to get a better answer there .
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
How long this will last depends largely on the ratio of sugar to water in the final syrup . Sugar can inhibit the growth of microbes by reducing the <URL> of the solution , but this is dependent on the amount of sugar . According to a <URL> that I consider quite reliable on these matters , a syrup composed of equal parts sugar and water ( by mass , not volume ! ) will generally keep unspoiled for about 2 weeks . A syrup with 2 parts sugar to 1 part water will keep as long as 3 months . These both assume that you 're keeping the syrup refrigerated in an airtight container , which it sounds like you are . Unfortunately , unless you know the exact ratio , it 's tough to predict exactly how long this will last . Discard immediately if you notice any of the following : Any visible mold ( hopefully this one 's obvious ) A cloudier appearance ( harder to judge since you have some suspended particles ; you might try running it through a fine-mesh strainer ) Any gas bubbles or outgassing when you open the container ( this is a sign of <URL> ) You might also consider adding a small amount of alcohol . This provides another hurdle to microbial growth , and would extend your syrup 's shelf life to somewhere between 3-6 months . I generally add about 1/2 oz of 80-proof ( 40 % ABV ) vodka per 8 oz or so of syrup . Regarding a mason jar , the main advantage these have is that they wo n't trap flavors the way that plastic can when re-used . A strongly-flavored substance stored in plastic for a time can contribute some of its flavor to the next . Since you 're storing a strongly-flavored ginger syrup in a former soda water bottle ( which is nearly tasteless ) this probably is n't a concern , but if you used the bottle again whatever you put in it might come out tasting subtly of ginger . Glass does n't have this problem .
Peanut butter is just ground roasted peanuts essentially . The american style peanut butter tends to be sweetened , as well as having extra oil and salt . But they are only slight flavour/texture enhancers ( not that I think sugar enhances it , UK peanut butter is unsweetened usually ) . Satay sauces are essentially just peanut butter sauces , roast some peanuts , grind them , then add to some lightly fried shallots and garlic , with chilli , soy sauce , lemon juice , salt , sugar and if you want it authentic probably some nam pla ( fish sauce ) , or blachan ( shrimp paste ) , all of the above to taste . Thin with water and reduce to the consistency you desire .
There are many myths surrounding yogurt making : UHT milk is bad . This is simply not true . I have made yogurt with whole fat UHT milk for years and it comes out nice and thick . In fact for the past several months I have been using a high quality whole milk powder that makes a lovely , thick yogurt . Store bought yogurt will always be thicker because of additives . Also not true . My yogurt is as thick as a high fat sour cream and contains no added milk powder , gelatine , etc. . You need many hours of ' fermentation ' to make yogurt . Again I do n't agree . My yogurt sets in 3-4 hours , after which it goes in the fridge to cool and finish the culturing process . The milk must be exactly x temperature when you add the starter . This is only somewhat true . As long as the milk is at or below 45 ° C it is fine . If you can stand the temperature , so can the bacteria -- ie , if you can hold a finger in it for ~ 10 sec , it 's ok . That said , too low and you 're losing some effects of the protein denature explained below . Everything must be sterilized . This is only somewhat true . Clean everything carefully , of course , but you are adding a starter with billions of cultivated bacteria into an ideal environment for it to grow . It will easily dominate other bacteria that happen to get in -- and they will , since there are bacteria in the air all around us , so even post-sterilization there will be plenty of foreign stuff entering the yogurt . That said , an over-long incubation will give other bacteria a chance to express themselves , so best to avoid that . Do n't move , touch , or cause the yogurt to shake in any way during incubation or it will fail . I used to believe this myself but it 's really not that sensitive . Obviously less agitation is better , but it will not fail even with fairly substantial movement during the incubation . Drinking yogurt is shaken quite violently during incubation in order to keep it liquid and even then it 's still quite viscous . The keys to making good thick yogurt are : Protein . The milk becomes solid because of a protein in the milk , and for that to happen , the protein must first be heated to above 70 ° C. I heat it to 75-80 ° C for just a few minutes and it still turns out very thick . A milk with high quality protein will make a great yogurt . Incubation temperature . If you want to make good yogurt in 3-4 hours ( beyond which it will not get thicker , only more sour ) , it must be incubated at a steady 40-45 ° C . A lower temperature will also produce yogurt , but you are in a race with other bacteria , so the quicker it 's done the better . Buy a 75-cent indoor thermometer and start looking for ways to create the right temperature environment . Time between generations . Try to bake a new batch every 4-5 days . After a week in the fridge the bacteria are starting to suffer and will not be as strong and active when introduced into the next batch . A short generation cycle will let you go on making yogurt with the same culture for dozens of generations . Sugar quantity . This is my own personal guess based on bread making , etc. . A little sugar will boost the bacteria , but too much will slow it down . I use 2 tbsp per litre of milk and it works very well . Tart with a hint of sweet . Up to double this amount should be fine but more could affect it . Like I say I 'm guessing here but it seems to make sense . Two final notes . The " water " that separates out of the yogurt is whey protein -- generally seen as a very healthy thing to eat . A firm yogurt will let you pour it or spoon it off if you do n't like it , but there 's no reason not to just scoop it out with the rest or stir it back in . Fat content is important , but the milk protein is what will make or break the yogurt . I have made a very thick yogurt with skim milk powder or skim milk with added skim milk powder . Soy milk , which has quite a bit less fat than whole milk , makes a very solid yogurt . It 's all about solids . Of course a > 3 . x % whole fat milk will produce a tastier yogurt , because milk fat is oh so tasty ! Further reading from an industry source : <URL> Additional tips : <URL>
Using a large amounts of seeds will significantly influence the humidity of your dough and bread . Dry seeds will soak up quite a bit of water - either during resting time or afterwards . This is especially bad when this soaking happens after baking , as your bread will get very dry ... Wholemeal tends to have the same effect . The best way to counteract this effect is to add more water and add more time This can be done either by pre-soaking the seeds , which will then " bring " the required extra water to the dough or letting a rather wet dough rest for a long time , preferably over night . The first approach is easier , because the seeds take up the required water " automatically " , the latter preferable taste-wise . Longer resting times allow for the development of complex flavors and need very little yeast or sourdough . As for recipes , you should be able to find plenty on the internet .
Are you absolutely certain that the " grittiness " is caused by the cheese not melting , and not because the sauce is curdling ? If you cook it too long or too fast , that is what will happen . If you must use the Kraft stuff ( personally , I think it has no flavour compared to real Reggiano ) , try melting the cheese on low heat in a very small amount of cream first , before you add it to the main sauce pan . If it 's still gritty , either it 's curdling or you need to use a better cheese .
Though I 've never dried extruded pasta . I regularly make and dry out cut pastas like fettuccine . I prefer egg based pastas , as they 're richer . I dry mine at room temperature in nests . Even with the egg I 've never gotten ill . This is how my great grandparents had done it . So I 'm fairly certain its very uncommon to become ill from the conditions you dry the pasta in . Especially since you are n't using eggs , I doubt you 'll have a problem when it comes to food safety . Most drying methods are done at room temperature . I 'm assuming extruded pastas take a bit longer to dry , but I do n't think this is going to be an issue . The only time I have trouble with pasta is when I put it in a ziplock without properly drying it . This pasta will mold , and its pretty easy to spot . I 'll leave pasta to dry for more than 24 hours before I put it in a plastic bag . Even then I keep the bag only half sealed for the first couple days just to be sure . Really the drying period is what would worry me . I 'd be worried about it being dry enough before storing , than I would be worried about it molding or spoiling while drying . Which you do n't really need to do . Small insects tend to enjoy flour , so storing in a tuperware container with some cheese cloth over the top might be a better approach , as it allows moisture to escape . I would n't be so much overly worried about bacteria , as these will be killed in the cooking process . However , mold , even when killed , is still dangerous . Throw out any moldy pasta . It wo n't go moldy unless you store it airtight while its still damp . Simply put , dry it thoroughly , and you do n't need to worry about spoilage . The dried pasta will easily last for months . If you 're going to cook it the next day , you can even just refrigerate it without drying . As drying thoroughly might take longer than the period of time between prepping and cooking . If you 're prepping a few days or more ahead , drying would make sense . It 's very common to dry pastas at room temperature , and there is n't any safety regulation against doing so even if your pasta has egg in it . Doing so in a cooled environment is just an added precaution . However , I 've made and dried pasta for years without any ill effects of doing so at room temperature . So some simple rules : Dry it thoroughly , it should be bone dry . At least 15 hours ( it 's humid here , so I do at least 24hrs in summer ) . Use your best judgement . It takes a long time to dry , so making in larger quantities less often is often prefered if you 're prepping for short order . Do n't store it in an airtight container , but something that can breath but does n't allow insects/debris to come in contact . Store in a cool , dark place . Remove any excess flour that could trap moisture .
It is possible to do at home , but it is very labor intensive and requires equipment that most people do n't have at home . The first major step is to <URL> ( ie tapioca flour ) . The cassava must be cleaned and peeled , then finely grated or milled to break the cell walls and expose the starch . This mass is then washed in a large amount of water and the insoluble pulp is strained out and the starchy water reserved . The starch-water mixture , called " Starch milk " , is allowed to settle for 6 + hours and the water is drained off until a thick slurry is left . This slurry is then either purified further with more water then dried to form the flour . The additional washing of the slurry is important to remove residual insoluble fiber and , more importantly , cyanide-related toxins naturally found in the cassava . Traditional cultures dried the slurry on basketwork trays , but it is more efficient to do it in an oven at low temperature with regular raking and turning . The dried starch would then be sifted and used for cooking . <URL> or pearls from tapioca starch is relatively easy compared to the processing of the cassava . The tapioca starch is mixed with boiling water to form a dough which is then kneaded and rolled into the desired size balls . The tapioca balls are then cooked in boiling water until transparent . Other sources : <URL> <URL>
You could put them in a pan of boiling water for 3 or 4 minutes ( not so to they 're cooked through ) before putting them in the oven . The potato on the outside of the wedges will soften and cook a little bit which will help the outsides crisp up a little . Make sure you allow them to drain completely before you put them in the oven .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
My partner has a very sensitive " dirt-flavor " sense ... One of the ingredients that may be found in salsa that often triggers it for her is cumin .
In the accepted answer to <URL> , it says that you can try wringing the pumpkin purée out in cheese cloth ; or in a comment , that you can let it drain in a colander .
You can give your candies hard shells by dipping them into a melted mixture of one part water , two parts sugar , and 1/2 part corn syrup . Melt those ingredients together over medium to medium-high heat until the sugar has totally dissolved and the mixture is at the hard crack stage ( 295-310 & deg ; F. / 146-154 & deg ; C. ) . Remove your pot of glaze from the heat and place it into a waiting metal bowl of ice water . Once the glaze has stopped bubbling , begin dipping your candies immediately . Once dipped , set them on an appropriate , lightly greased surface to cool ( use a flavorless oil or kitchen spray for greasing ) . You 'll want to skewer your candies to dip them ; never attempt to dip candies into hot glaze by hand . You 'll also want to set everything up for dipping before you make your glaze : have your bowl of ice water ready ; have a greased tray or marble slab/counter ready to receive your dipped candies ; have your kitchen to yourself ( distractions are n't good when working with hot glaze ) . Your glaze will cool very quickly , so work carefully but efficiently .
Real cheese crackers are always going to be a little greasy . You can reduce this by using a lower fat cheese like mozzarella . I think you 'd benefit by adding some flour to absorb some of the oil . Try starting with a 1/4 to 1/3 ratio of flour to cheese . From what I understand , whole wheat , whole grain , and oat flour are much more friendly to diabetics . You could even try something exotic like mesquite or yellow pea flour .
Speaking as a Brit - we are a nation of chip lovers :) Use an oil which can cope with the high temperature such as groundnut . For that proper chip experience ( * heart attack alert * ) add some beef dripping or lard . I add a small amount to give the chips a nice flavour . Whilst heating the oil regulary dip a chip in the oil . When it starts to bubble then it 's time to cook . If the oil is too cold the chips will absorb it and they 'll go soggy . ( This is easier to achieve with a traditional chip pan or I prefer a deep saucepan ) . For the perfect chip the potato variety is important but this is personal taste . Last seasons reds will make dark delicious chips but I prefer new potatoes which make a crisper lighter coloured chip . ( The potato variety also affects the colour when cooked ) . Finally , drain on kitchen paper and a sprinkle of salt .
First , finely chop the onions . This makes them smaller , faster-cooking , and less of a textural presence in the dish . Do it by cutting straight through the poles of the onion , resulting in two halves . Then chop off the knobs and peel off the outer layer . Run the knife 8 or 9 times along the vertical ( from pole to pole ) , but do n't sever one end completely . Cut finely across these verticals to make a fine dice . Run the knife over the pile a few times if your cut is n't small enough . Second , cook the onions . The purpose of sweating is to draw moisture out , concentrating the flavor and enhancing conversion from starch to sugar . Heating the onions releases their aroma and reduces the chemical bitterness they exhibit when raw . Heat up some oil in a pan to medium-low heat . Add the onions . Add salt . I would n't cover the pan , since the lid will prevent steam from escaping . Stir/shake to prevent sticking or burning . The onions will get soft and then translucent . ( Eventually , if you kept going they would get limp and browned ; this is referred to as caramelized and considered a different thing than sweated , so although it 's just further along the same spectrum , you should n't go that far for this recipe ) . That 's how I 'd do it and why . I do n't know if it 's a textbook answer .
Panko wo n't stick to chicken ( too dry ) , but will stick to egg . Egg wo n't stick to chicken ( too smooth and non-absorbant ) , but will stick to flour . Flour will stick to chicken . Dredge first through flour , then through ( well beaten ) egg , then through panko . It 's a tricky combination , but if you do it right the results are excellent . Any dry spices you want to put in can go in the flour . While I do n't know for sure , I would certainly would n't include any oils in the coating , as none of flour/egg/panko will stick to oils .
Spanish hot chocolate and Italian cioccolata fiorentina both use cornstarch as a thickening agent . Both are used more for dipping or sipping ( churros in the former case ) , however you could easily just use less cornstarch to make it more ' drinkable ' . Try a teaspoon of cornstarch , mixed with a little cold water , added to the milk when you boil it . As Kate Gregory suggests , you could also use full-fat milk , or loads of shaved chocolate .
end question
start question
Why is lettuce rarely cooked ?
First of all , visual similarity has little to no importance in cooking . The way an item is handled depends on its texture , taste , flavor and interaction with other ingredients , and it is rare that these are connected among similar looking substances . When it happens , it is because they are related chemically , physically or biologically , not because they look alike . Now on to the lettuce , and why we do n't need to cook it . There are a few reasons why we cook vegetables . Because they are too hard to chew comfortably . That one does n't apply to lettuce , it has very tender leaves . In fact , once you cook it , it goes not from hard to soft ( as does a , say , carrot ) , but from tender to limp . On the other hand , it can be useful for cabbage . Try to wolf down a salad made from cabbage only , especially if you are a medieval peasant with no access to a mandoline ( so your wife did n't cut it up in 2.5 mm stripes , but hacked as good as she could with whatever knife she had ) . It is possible , but requires much more jaw work than spooning coleslaw . Because we want to mellow their taste . Joe 's answer covers this , there is n't much reason to mellow the taste of lettuce . Because we want to neutralize toxins or irritants . Plants like beans and potatoes come to mind in this category , but this does n't apply to lettuce ( neither to cabbage ) . To kill off germs . Traditionally , this has n't been a concern with most vegetables . Because we like a filling , warm meal . This is by no means a universal preference , but the more you get into the North , the more likely it is that the main meal is served warm . Cabbage makes for an excellent main meal for said peasant - easy to grow in abundance , relatively carbohydrate rich , especially before starchy crops like potatoes and maize got widespread . It is also easily preserved for the winter ( and after imperfect home fermentation , the taste mellowing part becomes important ) . So it is frequently cooked to soups or casseroles . Lettuce , on the other hand , is not really a main meal . It has much less calories per volume , and also per unit of cultivated land . So it is eaten in addition to the main , filling meal , not as a main part of it . So there is no need to make it warm too . Note that there are examples for cooked leaf soups without much calories , but these are poor man 's food , and made from leaves usually foraged , not cultivated ( nettle , sorrel , dock ) . They are used more as a diversion against hunger than actually stilling it , when there are no resources for better ( = more caloric ) food . They do deliver micronutrients though . I do n't know why lettuce is n't commonly used this way , but I suspect that there is no wild lettuce in the places where nettle and sorrel are eaten . Of these , only spinach seems to have survived the cultural shift to centralized food production . Because it is a structural part of some cooked dish . Other answers mention wrappers . Its shape lets it be used in this way , but it is a poor wrapper , both tastewise and in terms of durability , leaf size and thermal isolation . Wherever you live , you are likely to have a better wrapper lying around . As the other answers mention , it does get cooked from time to time . But it is more of a whim , or a wish for diversity I guess . None of the usual reasons for cooking other vegetables applies to it . You can still cook it if you want to , but it is better suited for a fresh salad appilcation .
The nature of deep frying , contrary to expectation , is that it is a dry cooking method . The heat from the oil vaporizes water at the surface of the food . The steam coming of the food pushes the oil away from the food , and keeps oil from soaking in during the main frying process . This is also what causes the bubbling . The consequence of this is that by its very nature , deep frying rapidly dries out the surface of whatever is being cooked . From some foods , including some meats , this would leave the outside of the meat dry , tough , and rubbery . A coating of breading prevents this by providing a barrier between the hot frying oil and the meat . The breading itself also browns , which adds flavor and crunchiness that can greatly enhance the appeal of the food item . It may also have spices or other flavors or seasonings in the breading to compliment the food . Still , not all meats have to be breaded before deep frying . For example , chicken wings are often deep fried plain . The skin browns and bubbles and gets very crispy . So , the main reasons for breading are : Protect the food product Add brown , delicious crunch Add flavor through other seasonings
Garlic is full of sticky ( and tasty ) oils , which is what makes it stick to your knife and fingers . Dipping your fingers in olive oil and carefully rubbing them on the flat of the knife blade should prevent the garlic sticking .
This depends partially on the cooking technique and the shrimp variety/size ( = > thickness of the shell ) . If the shrimp is deep fried the shell can turn crispy and is super fun to eat . However , if boiled , the shells are chewy and extremely unpleasant - in this case you have to peel them . I am not familiar with the spicy garlic shrimp , but you can just try if the shell is crunchy , is pleasant to eat , and does not require excessive painful chewing - go for it , if not return to your old practice of pealing it and just licking the flavoring of the shells .
Spaetzle is basically a noodle . Throw together egg , flour and salt ( maybe some water to thin it out ) and force it through a mold . Anything with holes can be used as a mold ( for instance , I 've used my old metal colander and that would work fine ) . Once the dough is formed into little pieces ( it does n't usually hold together for long threads ) , put it in boiling water to cook for a few minutes and dress it to eat however you desire . Note : some people say Spaetzle is a noodle , some say a dumpling , I have no preference , I just call it tasty !
A roux is just cooking flour in an equal amount ( or thereabouts ) of fat . If you 've already done it in butter , you already know what you are doing . Butter is tricky because there is some water left in the butter and the fat itself has a low smoke point . After making a roux with butter , another fat is easy . Butter contains water , but it 's not so picky that the small amount of water matters as far as measuring the butter ; it 's more about compensating for the butter 's behavior and not allowing it to burn . Do the same thing with any oil as you have with butter , and you will be fine . If anything , you will find it easier with another fat . Just go roughly 50/50 and take your time .
<URL> is as good advice as any I 'd give . In my experience , it gets some slimy mold stuff on it . If it feels slimy , its probably not good to eat , although the mold might taste delicious , you never know ...
It is traditionally served with coffee when getting together with friends for coffee ; kind of like tea-cakes are served at tea-time .
I think the thing boils down to how much you need to get from the lettuce . If you demand the best of the best performance for your salad , you want to blot it dry with paper towels , so that the texture is best preserved and the appearance is undisturbed . For my purpose , in my kitchen , a salad spinner saves money ( the paper towels ) , time ( my time ) , and allows me to do something more interesting than blotting it dry , and the time saved can be used to better decorate the dishes I love better than the salad . In essence , there is nothing wrong with any method of cooking if you enjoy the result , and it does n't involve health problems . Spinning it dry is fine for me , and if you accept the result , there is little to hesitate using one . Thomas Keller also told us that after vegetables release the flavors in the soup we should discard them , and replace them with fresh cooked vegetables with better colors and better flavor for better presentation . In my kitchen , I am not serving a Michelin 3-star soup to my family , and thus it is fine having those vegetables in the soup for some more fibres in our diet . It is a matter of fine dining , it is not a matter of home kitchen . Insist if you have to , but relax if you actually can .
It means the butter is made from cream that has n't been fermented . Butter made from fermented cream is known as " cultured cream butter " , and it has distinct sour , lactic acid notes . Sweet cream butter tastes , well , sweet , and if it is from really good fresh milk you may be able to taste grassy notes . Both are good in their own way .
Food quality is n't binary ; it does n't go from perfectly good to perfectly bad in an instant . Even if it did , the time it would take depends on the storage temperature . And for non-liquid foods , it 's possible that only a part went bad ( how well does it mix ? ) . So , you do n't get a precise date , but a rough interval at which time the decay starts to set in . As a result , the manufacturer will just pick a rounded date from that interval . Example : the engineers might calculate that under reasonable circumstances , the product may start to noticably deteriorate after 52-75 days , and become dangerous after 81-112 days . They manufacturer could then say that the expiry date would be 60 days . ( The other answers explain why you 'd use the first interval , but not why they 're actually intervals . ) : edit : The likely reason why they 're all the same 60 days is probably also engineering . How much preservative do they use ? As noted in the comments , the primary preservatives are the acids , but you need quite some sugar to compensate . It seems 60 days is a commonly accepted balance .
Gravy is supposed to be opaque and is a result of using flour as the thickener . If you want clear gravy , like what you would get in a Chinese restaurant , then you need to use corn starch or arrowroot as your thickener . But the opacity is considered to be a good thing . It 's the canned stuff you buy in the store that is clear .
I do n't know much of the science behind the super-soft bread on supermarket shelves , but I can give some insight into the history that led to it becoming so ubiquitous in the US . The idea that whiter breads are classier than darker breads goes all the way back to the 5th century BC . The belief that white bread was superior to dark bread , a common theme in many cultures over the ages , was already taking hold in Greece by the 5th century BC . Darker , denser breads made from barley or rye were the breads of the poor . White breads were believed to be pure , more refined , more cultured . They cost more too , since growing wheat was more labor-intensive than other grains . And on top of that , removing the bran and the germ to make wheat flour white instead of brown increased the work and the cost still further . Interestingly , up until the 17th century there were even separate baker 's guilds for bakers of white breads and brown breads . This prejudice against darker breads generally continued all the way until the 1960 's , when growing health consciousness finally seemed to turn the tide . From <URL> The desire for soft came a bit later ( same source ) : I 've often wondered why bread baking in this country-descended as it is from the great European traditions-turned so ... let 's say ... soft . The decline of good bread baking may have had its roots in the 18th century . The introduction of pan baking made bread softer and puffier . In the 19th century a distaste for " sourness " ( ironically the same " sourness " that makes San Francisco sourdough and other sourdoughs so great ) led to the introduction of baking soda to bread , which made it puffier still . In the 1870 's industrial milling techniques were introduced . Flour became whiter and whiter , and " deader " - bakers began adding sugar to get yeasts to react as they had in the past , and bread got puffier still . Bread continued to get sweeter and puffier , until finally in the 1920 's , we reached the pinnacle of puffiness-Wonder Bread . It 's with the birth of Wonder Bread things really take a turn for the insiped . Did you know you can squeeze an entire loaf into a ball the size of a tennis ball ? I once know a guy who never missed an opportunity to show off that little stupid-human-trick ... but I digress ... Alexander Taggart , the founder of Wonder Bread , was a marketing genius . In the 1890s he sold the first company that he had built to The United States Baking Company and he accepted stock in The United States Baking Company as a part of the purchase price . The United States Baking Company subsequently became a part of the National Biscuit Company . You might know that company by another name , Nabisco . So at this point he owned a chunk of Nabisco , but he sold that to start another baking company , the Taggart Baking Company , out of Indianapolis , Indiana . At first he zeroed in on the large number of German immigrants in the area , and prior to WWI he advertised heavily in German language newspapers using a Puritan logo : From <URL> This was a good time to own a baking company in the USA . Between the start of the century and the end of WWI , the market was burgeoning . between 1899 and 1919 the value of bread and bakery products produced in Indiana grew 620 % . Americans were rapidly growing richer , and they could afford to replace labor-intensive homemade goods with manufactured alternatives . - <URL> But events of the era were causing a shift in the attitudes of American consumers . The war and its aftermath caused a tremendous amount of discrimination against German immigrants , and in Indiana , Germans were plentiful enough that there was a significant backlash to those attitudes . To make matters worse , Protestants in Indiana were banding together against Catholics , and the KKK was getting hugely powerful in state politics ( an interesting bit of history in its own right <URL> ) . Our marketing genius knew just how to capitalize on the social unrest . In 1921 the Taggart Company had a new wrapping technique that could keep bread fresh for several days , and set about to rebrand the product.The new Taggart bread would n't carry religious or ethnic connotations that could hinder it 's sales , or even falsely identify itself with the work of Puritan mothers -- it was going to be better . It was going to be from the mechanized world of the future , a utopian world with factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their smoke ; bridges with the leap of gymnasts ... and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propellers sound like the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds -- a vision outlined in Filippo Marinetti 's Futurist Manifesto , published in 1909 . The new Wonder Bread did n't suggest hearth and home . On the contrary , the unnaturally vibrant colors of the logo and visual purity of this new , virgin white , 1.5 pound loaf perfectly evoked the otherworldliness of the enormous manufacturing system that was seen as America 's future . - <URL> It was the righ
I would imagine , if the book is of reasonable quality , by prepared , they mean one that you have prepared earlier . If there 's a recipe for pizza base in the book , that 's probably what they 'd like you to use . Personally , if you 're going to the trouble of making home-made pizza , make your own base . Invariably , the pre-made bases you can buy from stores taste like chalk . There 's a few topics here that may be useful : <URL> <URL> <URL>
When I made scones for the first time , I also found the taste a bit unusual . The recipe I used specified a total of 11 g baking powder and baking soda per 250 g flour , and also 5 g salt . I used less salt , but the taste is definitely unusal for people accustomed to continental Kleingebäck . I can see two reasons for this . First , the dough for scones is quite unusual , something between cookie and pastry . It is a lot tougher than the usual soda-leavened dough . So I guess that it needs additional leavening power in order to create a light texture , unlike the semiliquid batters which raise without a problem . Plus , it gets no help from egg whites the way some cakes do ( in fact , my recipe specified egg yolks only ) . The second point is one you already mentioned in the question . It seems that the English tradition is to eat scones with cream and jam . I tried it with my own scones , and the combination was quite good . I do n't eat much jam , as it is too sweet for my taste , but the pairing with the bland scones was really nice . A sweeter or richer vehicle would have made the whole thing overwhelming .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
Well , you 're definitely right . Onions cooked at a high temperature act differently than ones cooked at a low temperature , per " the bible " aka On Food and Cooking . However , it does n't go in to much of an explanation as to why . Probably the most relevant aspects of what is in there are : When onions and their relatives are heated , the various sulfur compounds react with each other and with other substances to produce a range of characteristic flavor molecules . The cooking method , temperature and medium strongly affect the flavor balance . Baking , drying , and microwaving tend to generate trisulfides , the characteristic notes of overcooked cabbage . Cooking at high temperatures in fat produces more volatiles and a stronger flavor than do other techniques . <URL> Since a low temperature produces less volatiles , I assume that the natural sugars of the onion shine through instead . It 's probably also important to understand where the oniony flavor comes from . The spice , as you describe it , is the onions natural defense mechanism . However , it does n't exist defacto in the onion , but is rather the result of a chemical reaction . The onion stores very reactive sulfur in the cell fluid , and a seperate trigger mechanism in a storage vacuole . When you cut / crush / cook / peel the onion , you break the vacuole and the enzyme and sulfur cause a chemical reaction giving off the spice . <URL> &amp; <URL> )
I use an instant-read thermometer . It 's by far the simplest method . I use the <URL> . As Darin states , you 're shooting for 165 ℉ for turkey . My old Taylor died a few weeks ago . After reading rave reviews from Cooks Illustrated , and Alton Brown 's recommendation , I splurged and got a <URL> . It is amazing !
I feel the same as you Anderson . I found that too and you just made me to do some research , which I found they have different smoke points . Unrefined sunflower oil 225 ° F 107 ° C Unrefined peanut oil 320 ° F 160 ° C see the link : <URL> Also , one of the reasons food stick to the pan is the evenness of the temperature of the pan . If you use a thicker pan or copper pan , the heat will be distributed on the pan more evenly and food will stick less . The higher smoke point of oil makes me to believe the oil helps to distribute heat more evenly .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
end question
start question
Does whiskey go bad by freezing ?
Putting strong spirits in the freezer should not harm them . The solubility of air gases increases at low temperature , which is why you see bubbles as it warms up . Drinks with a lower alcohol content will be affected in the freezer . There is potential to freeze water out of anything with an alcohol content of 28 % or lower . Many people use the freezer to increase the alcohol content of their home brew in UK , by freezing water out of it - the alcohol stays in the liquid portion .
It 's not going to be nice to drink a day later , no matter what . I 'd use it in baking a chocolate cake or something like that instead , if you ca n't bear to throw it out . The problem is not just the reheating , which will further cook the coffee and affect flavour , but that it 's been losing aroma and oxidizing for a day first . If you 're serving it to anyone you like even a little bit , serve them fresh coffee !!
If it grows a grey or pink mold around the edges , or a black mold , throw it out . That 's an undesirable mold . Those molds are n't usually dangerous , but they can make the cheese taste bad . With gorgonzola cheese specifically , the mold is injected in to the cheese via needle-like things , and then it grows veins from there . If a mold is a different color and it 's coming from somewhere other than the veins , that is probably not a good mold . See also <URL> . .
Wine will eventually turn into vinegar . So , other than having a really icky taste by itself ( unless you like drinking vinegar :) ) , it is n't bad for your health and you can cook with it .
YES ! If food is quickly heated and kept above 140F/60C , microorganisms ca n't grow in the food . Professional kitchens use steam tables to keep food warm at this temperature throughout a day 's service . If the product is cooled quickly ( generally using an ice bath ) , then it can be used for more than one day . Another approach is often used for stocks and soups : heat them to 165F/75C daily or every two days , to kill microorganisms , then cool them quickly with an ice bath to under 40F/5C . This can be done 2-3 times to extend the fridge life of the product . The most important part of both approaches is to use a food thermometer to verify that food is fully heated/cooled , and Another trick to extend the fridge life of food is to immediately transfer it from a still-hot pot to a cool container , and then leave the top of the container open to allow steam to escape . This greatly reduces cooling time ; even in a refrigerator , a sealed container may take over an hour to cool down to a safe temperature .
Surprisingly , the answer seems to be a qualified yes , however the texture is not the same . The dried gnocchi turned out to be much better if fried after boiling ; see below . Here are the results of my experiment : I dried a small amount of the fresh Gnocchi by placing them in a 150 degree ( Farenheit ) oven for about an hour , then turning off the oven and leaving them in all day . It is very dry here , so that did the trick . I boiled the dried gnocchi after several days of storage . They took about ten times longer to boil than their fresh counterparts . Even after they were fully cooked , they were not as soft as the fresh gnocchi , and they never regained their original size or shape . Overall , they were denser , firmer , and less sticky . Not desirable traits necessarily , but they were quite edible . I decided to pan-fry a small batch in about a tablespoon of oil , and these turned out wonderfully ! I have pan-fried gnocchi before , and it tends to be hard to keep them intact and keep them from sticking . The previously dried gnocchi , however , did not stick and held up to vigorous frying . The result were gnocchi with a crispy exterior and soft ( if somewhat dense ) interior . The crispy outside and flavor reminded me of samosas . These were n't just edible , they were great . I plan to dry about half of my next batch and use the dried gnocchi exclusively for frying .
To me , the key to your question " five minutes . " I 'm no scientist , but I ca n't imagine that this is harmful . I agree with Aaronut 's answer in that I think it takes a much , much longer period of time for problems to develop . When people warn you about thawing in hot water , they 're envisioning something more like taking a solidly-frozen piece of meat from the freezer , and thawing it in hot water .
According to <URL> , as reported in Fine Cooking , the sugar should weigh slightly more than the flour : The sugar should weigh the same as , or slightly more than , the flour . Remember that this is weight , not volume . A cup of sugar weighs about 7 ounces , and a cup of all-purpose flour weighs about 4-1/2 ounces . So , if we 're building a recipe with 1 cup sugar , we 'll need about 1-1/2 cups flour ( about 6-3/4 ounces ) . Sugar plays a very important role in creating the structure and bite of cakes , and also helps to retain moisture and inhibit spoiling , so you can not simply reduce the quantity without limit to control the sweetness . That being said , most recipes have a certain amount of tolerance . You can probably reduce the sugar by about 20 to 25 % without completely altering the nature of the recipe , although the crumb may suffer a little . Vanilla and rose are delicate flavors . If you are making a yellow cake with butter , and egg yolks , they may be competing and masking the flavor . Using a white cake base may allow these flavors to show through more clearly .
easiest way is to mix it with the sauce and heat both up together . Usually I 'd do this in a pan , but you could use a microwave . If you have to heat the pasta up on its own , what I usually do is do it in a pan and add a little boiling water , just a couple of tablespoons , enough to stop it sticking , and keep stirring until its warmed through . If it starts to stick add a little more water . You could do this in a microwave I 'd bet , but I do n't have one .
Fruits that are high in pectin are not necessarily sour and sour fruits are not necessarily high in pectin . However , pectin is typically found in high concentrations in firm fleshed fruit such as apples and in the skins of citrus . Unripe fruit has even more than the ripe . So - I can see why you would come to that conclusion . It is easy enough to <URL> <URL> of pectin levels in various fruits . As you may notice many of these charts list not only fruits high in pectin but those high in acid . This is because acid is necessary to make pectin gel as it removes a charge on the pectin molecules that prevents them from tangling with each other . Low acid fruits , even if they are high in pectin , need extra acid for this reason . If you are feeling all scientific about it , you can <URL> . There is no danger in experimenting . At least no danger of illness . You might end up with grainy jam if the pectin is too high or syrup if it is too low but it will all taste great .
Do n't bother soaking them . Dried hardwood does n't readily soak up water , so for this to work you 'll have to either soak for a rather long time or start with green wood ... but if you 're using green wood then you do n't need to soak it . For good , consistent smoke , you want to control heat and airflow : <URL> , you can control heat by simply moving the chips away from the coals . If the design of your BBQ allows , you can do as he suggests ( horizontal separation ) ; otherwise , try placing the chips in a pan above the coals . For airflow , you can adjust the vents on your BBQ - if you 're getting flair-ups with the lid on , chances are you 're letting too much air through . You can also limit airflow to the chips themselves by wrapping them in a packet fashioned from sturdy aluminum foil with holes punched in it ( but you 'll still want to separate them from the coals , or you 'll just burn through the foil and be back where you started ) .
Butter and margarine freeze perfectly . I generally stock up during sales and thaw it as needed . You just have to make sure it 's wrapped tightly in the foil , to prevent oxidation . It 'll keep at least 6 months , probably more if you do n't have a self-defrosting freezer . Thawing butter does take quite a while , however . I usually give a package a few days to thaw fully . If you need butter in a hurry , you can always put it in a Ziploc bag and fast thaw it a bowl under running running water . Or , just soften it in the microwave .
Generally ... not as quickly . The salt content of the wine is much higher than drinking wine , which will preserve it longer . It will still " go bad " eventually . ( Going bad is more a decrease in quality . It will still be edible , but unpleasant . It wo n't make you sick , except by the bad taste ! ) See this from <URL> : " Cooking wine typically available in North America is treated with salt as a preservative and food coloring . " So , it 's safer than normal wine , but I 'd try and use it soon . The sooner , the better .
<URL> You can definitely become intoxicated , but this is not advised . When you drink alcohol , it is absorbed through the lining of your digestive system and passes through the bloodstream to reach your brain . This means that the alcohol will be buffered by the contents of your digestive system , getting you drunk more gradually . When inhaled , the alcohol is absorbed directly into the bloodstream through the lungs , so intoxication will happen much more quickly , not giving you time to " back off " if you think you 've had too much .
Blanching is done to halt enzymatic action that would start to destroy the plant cells . You can freeze without blanching and the veggies will still be edible even after 6 months but their quality will decline faster . If you are planning on juicing those veggies within a month then you are going to be doing a lot more damage than the freezer will and I do n't think you would see much benefit from blanching . The spinach and celery might stay a little greener when it thaws - the carrots and zucchini would probably not be effected at all . As for the sugar water . Are you planning on freezing them in the water ? I do n't think that would do much but dilute their juices when the ice crystals rip them apart . Of course you would n't be able to keep spinach in a bowl of water for a month - that would be more like a swamp than food .
All the blender does is emulsify the mixture -- it has no effect on how long it will keep before the dressing begins to spoil or go off . Normally , oil and water do not like to mix . The oil will coalesce into droplets , then rise to the top due to buoyancy , so that you will have a layer of oil above the water-based liquids . Blending the mixture will break up the oil droplets into very small droplets . These take much longer to coalesce together , so you have a creamy dressing for a time . Over time , the oil can coalesce and separate back out . If this happens , assuming the ingredients have not spoiled , you can always remix or re-blend the mixture -- it s not a safety issue . I suggest storing your dressing in the refrigerator , where it will be good for several days , probably up to a week , although the oil may separate out . You can freeze it , but this is likely to encourage the emulsion to break . Note : I have not discussed emulsifiers like lecithin from egg yolks or mustard which help keep oil-water emulsions stable , because I do n't see any in this recipe .
The recipe 's goal is to use the natural bacteria in the beets and beet peels to cause the fermentation . The thing about using natural bacteria is that you never know what these are going to be , so it 's a crapshoot what flavors you are going to get . Beets produced in one farm may have radically different bacteria in them , different varieties grown in the same patch of land could also vary significantly . It 's the same process as making a sourdough bread starter using natural yeasts - you may get a nice smooth and delicate flavor , or you could get something that will take the paint off of a door . The point is that you may be doing everything right , it 's just that 's what you are going to get from the process . Looking at the science of the natural yeasts and assuming the recipe writer is not talking complete BS , it could be that the delicate bacteria spoken of in the recipe is being out-competed by the other natural bacteria in the water you use , and on the surface of the container , lid , and airlock . The thing to do in this case is to reduce or eliminate these other bacteria so that the beet bacteria will be the only game in town . To do this use sterilized water ( buy distilled or simply boil your water for a few minutes before letting it cool completely ) , or run your water through a filter which will remove or kill bacteria . Then use a chlorine solution to sterilize every single piece of equipment you will use . That means the container , lid , lock , spoons - anything that will come into contact must be very clean . Wash your beets in sterilized water as well . I 'd do that to the equipment even if I used a culture , it will increase my chances of a good result . If that does n't work you may have to accept that is the way natural kvass will taste . It could be that the writer of the article likes it that way , or simply does n't know what he/she is talking about . In that case consider using a culture - there 's no dishonor in it and you 'll get something drinkable .
It is due to a combination of several factor , depending on how the particular sausage was made : Dry cured sausages contain <URL> , a mixture of regular salt and sodium nitrate ( which breaks down into sodium nitrite ) , which prevents the growth of <URL> while the sausage cures . Meat for dry cures sausage is also often frozen to specific temperatures for prescribed periods of time to kill any <URL> which may be present . As the sausage cures , it becomes too dry and concentrated in salt to foster pathogens , as well as too acidic from the action of friendly bacteria , and thus is relatively shelf stable . It may also simply have acid ingredients as part of the initial recipe . Modern cured sausages may also be subjected to irradiation , cooking , or another " kill step " to satisfy the needs of regulatory agencies , according to the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL>
According to <URL> : Scallions ( also known as green onions , spring onions , salad onions , green shallots , onion sticks , or syboes ) , are the edible plants of various Allium species , all of which are " onion-like " , having hollow green leaves and lacking a fully developed root bulb . In the grocery stores I 've been to most ( east cost of US ) , if they are n't called scallions , they 're called green onions . I 've never seen grocery stores label them with any of those other names from Wikipedia ( though I 've seen recipes calling for syboes ) . Then of course there are stores / vegetable stands where nothing is labelled , in which case knowing what they look like is the most helpful ;) ( Google image search yields plenty of decent results . )
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
end question
start question
How do I feed a sourdough starter ?
I feed starter with a 50-50 mix of water and flour . Usually 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup flour for a small container . You can eyeball the ratio . It is n't critical to get it perfect . If you keep the starter in the fridge you can get away with feeding it twice a week depending on your yeast strain . You can do this by eye ... if the starter starts to look ugly when you take it out to feed , you should feed it a little more often . One thing I will say is that you can resurrect a starter that seems long past edible . The starter will get a cloudy fluid on top of the batter and develop a really strong smell if you let it go too long . My personal experience is that you can pour off the watery fluid and some of the batter if need be . Then add a good feeding of flour and water . It will take a little longer than usual to build up again . Yeast is a very durable critter .
That is wax , it 's done to help keep the moisture in the root . Turnips are also . You know it 's getting along when it gets soft and spongy or when the skin starts to wrinkle , same with turnips , beets , parsnips , carrots ... You pretty much can tell whether they are good or not in exactly the same ways . Are the firm and crisp or soft , flabby and spongy ?
While if you have the opportunity to improvise a lid I recommend you do so as per the other answers , however it is n't always possible . I have unexpectedly been thrust into the " grill master " role when I 've shown up to parties and the charcoal is hot , food expensive , and nobody but me knows how . In situations like this you have to do the best you can with what you have , and sometimes you wo n't have a lid or anything you can use as one . The reasons you want a lid are that it evens the heat out , and reduces the oxygen supply to the fire which cools things down a bit and reduces flare-ups . Without a lid you will get a hotter temperature at the base of the grill and much cooler temperatures above , with fat having a much greater tendency to flare . You can still get good results through making good choices of what to cook , and good technique . Bad technique will lead to food that is burnt to a crisp on the outside and raw in the middle . There are some foods that you do n't need a lid for , in fact you should n't use one , like thin to medium cut steaks . Other foods like burgers you can use a lid or not and still get a good result . So part of your success will come from choosing the right things to cook . Thinner is better , as is picking foods that do n't necessarily have to be cooked through . Some food you just ca n't grill without a lid . Avoid anything that requires long , indirect heat like legs of lamb or roasting joints . Some food is best cooked with a lid , but you can get good results without one , like chicken and sausages . Your main problem is heat control , and flaring . Chicken and sausages need longer cooking temperatures , so the goal is to cook them through without burning the outside , you can do this by keeping them around the edge of the charcoal where they get enough heat , and dripping fat wo n't hit the coals and flare up . Turn them often , like once a minute to keep them from burning . If they are getting close to done and they do n't have enough char then you can move them to the center of the grill for a bit . It also helps to have some sort of baste to coat them with to keep them moist like bbq sauce or a marinade . With sausages you can cheat a bit by slicing them down the long way and cooking them flat a few minutes over high heat . If you are cooking different foods at the same time , like burgers , sausages , and chicken then separate your grill into zones . Burgers get high heat , sausages medium , and chicken low . If you want to cook mostly food that needs a medium to low heat then you will get a lot of mileage from arranging your charcoal intelligently , like in a long strip down the middle of the wide part of the grill , or in a square grill in a torus shape . This will give you much more area of your grill with the temperature you need . Really important for lidless grilling is a spray bottle full of water to put out flare-ups , a mist sprayed on the base of the flare works magic and it wo n't kick up ash all over your food .
It 's actually a bit of an old wives ' tale that the yeasts colonizing your starter are from the air . Almost all of the yeasts in a starter are from the grains used to make it . This is why starters are frequently started with either whole grain kernels or grains like rye that are left mostly intact when milled . All of the microorganisms on the outside of the grain kernel are then included in your starter . As to leaving your jar open , I certainly would n't seal it up , especially if the jar is glass . The carbon dioxide produced by the starter could cause the jar to explode if it ca n't escape .
It 's very difficult to give an answer , as the size and shape of the casserole can greatly affect the reheating time . I 've found to get the best results , I start the casserole covered in a cold oven ( put it in the oven , then turn the heat on ) , and cook it at low heat ( 300 ° F / 150 ° C ) until it 's heated through . Once it 's up to temperature , I uncover the dish and turn the oven to broil ( called ' grill ' in some areas ... when only the top element is on at very high heat ) , and brown the top . If you need to , once the dish is warmed through , you can turn the oven down to its lowest setting and hold it there until you 're near time to serve it . ( it only takes a few minutes to brown the top , especially if you adjust the oven rack so the casserole is an inch or so ( 2.5 cm ) from the heating element ) I 'd probably give myself an hour minimum to heat it , preferably 1.5 hours , and 2 hours if it 's an especially large dish .
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
Robert Cartaino 's answer hits a main point : sourdough cultures are adapted to what they are typically fed . When switching flours , it may take a while for the culture to adjust . The starter may seem a bit sluggish at first . That said , I would NOT recommend trying to start a wheat culture if you already have a healthy starter that began with rye . There are two main reasons . First , rye is particularly rich in certain sugars and food that natural yeasts tend to like , so rye starters naturally tend to look more " lively " than wheat starters , especially in the early stages of a starter . Part of what you may be seeing in your transition to wheat is simply less activity produced because the food source is less rich in nutrients , not necessarily because the yeast and bacteria ca n't digest it . Second , a lot of recipes to generate new starters recommend using rye at the beginning , regardless of what you ultimately plan to feed the starter . Because it provides a strong food source for young cultures , it 's usually a lot easier to begin with rye ( perhaps this is why you did ) . In my experience , it tends to take new wheat starters at least twice as long to get strongly established compared to rye , and there 's a higher chance of failure if you do n't use a good recipe . For both of these reasons , some people even recommend always feeding your starter with rye flour , even if you tend to make wheat-based bread . Since many people have success doing that ( and I have personally ) , I do n't think you need to begin a whole new culture with wheat alone . If your starter really is sluggish ( and not just a little less active than it was with rye ) , you can help your starter to adapt to the new food . I 'm not sure what your typical feeding routine is or what the hydration level of your starter is . But the general thing to do in these circumstances is to dilute your starter and feed it large quantities of the new food . For example , if you maintain 200 grams of your starter normally , I would discard all but maybe 40-50 grams and then add enough new flour and water to get back to 200 grams in whatever your usual proportion is . ( Some people would be even more extreme in diluting the starter and cut the starter proportion even further . ) Within a few days of feedings like this , you will have strongly selected the yeast and bacteria that thrive on whole wheat and your starter should be strong again . After a week of feedings like this , I doubt you could distinguish the performance of your starter from one that was begun on wheat . ( Note that the specific microorganisms may still be slightly different , but your starter should do a fine job raising dough and providing flavor . )
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
If you have one , a potato ricer is very effective at removing moisture from things that do n't drain effectively with gravity alone , e.g. sauerkraut , cooked spinach , salted cabbage , salted squash/marrow , etc. . In my experience , it 's more effective , and easier to clean , than a salad spinner . <URL> ( For best results , look for the kind that 's pictured above , with holes only on the bottom , not the sides . Otherwise , you 're liable to end up shooting sauerkraut juice halfway across your kitchen . )
For very high hydration loaves , you want to create your gluten development without adding an excess of flour which would reduce the relative hydration . <URL> shows the classic stretch , slap and fold method , using a 70 % hydration dough . Basically , you lift the entire dough from the work surface , allow it to stretch under its own weight , then slam it down again . Rinse and repeat . A somewhat less labor instensive method is described at <URL> ( the article has a lot of introductory material , keep reading and there are really clear instructions with lots of photos ) : Initially stir the dough together until it is is a thick and cohesive liquid , which the author describes as " like porridge . " Use the stretch and fold method of kneading to create some development : Flour your work surface moderately Pour the dough out onto the surface Use your bench knife knife ( also called a dough scraper ) to lift and drop the dough back on itself , stretching it . Images from the Fresh Loaf Allow the dough to rest and autolyse , that is , develop gluten from the reaction of the water and precursor proteins in the presence of enzymes naturally in the flour . This limits the amount of hand kneading you have to do . Repeat the stretch and fold method a couple of times to get the final development Finally , note that very wet doughs can also be kneaded entirely in a stand mixer simply by beating them for a couple of minutes . These doughs are wet enough to be nearly pourable , and do not climb and clump onto the paddle ; if they do , the hydration is not high enough for this method , and you need to use the dough hook instead .
There are two ways to thicken gravy : simmer down Requires time , patience and a wide pot to get a large surface area for optimum evaporation . Simmering down results in very concentrated flavours ( including salt , so be careful with salting in the beginning ) . use a thickener This is often something starchy like flour or corn / potato starch that binds the liquid . Note that the flavours wo n't be as concentrated , sometimes even a bit dulled by the starch . So try your sauce and depending on the flavour level you have reached now , you should simmer longer , use starch or do both sequentially . ( If your guests are hungrily gnawing at the tablecloth already , whip out the starch , adjust the seasoning and serve asap ^_^ )
I do n't believe there is a fool-proof way to determine ' ripeness ' without taking a slice out of it . The best you can do is look for certain signs : Ripe melons have a hollow sound when you tap or slap the outside Look for the patch where the melon would have been on the ground ( called the field spot ) . If it 's a yellow colour its probably ripe , if it 's white , it 's probably not . It should feel relatively heavy when lifted Weird areas on the skin are n't necessarily bad . insects may have tried to start eating the fruit because it is ripe , but have only marred the surface . Unfortunately , melons do n't continue to ripen once picked , unlike fruits such as apples , bananas etc. which contain ethylene . As a tip do n't store melons with these kinds of fruit , they may well go ' soggy ' . Extra : <URL> .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
Mayo that splits is typically from one of two things : Insufficient water Insufficient mixing leading to large droplets ( It 's hardly ever insufficient emulsifier , as one yolk can do many cups of mayo . ) The lack of mixing can happen fairly easily with a whisk , but it wo n't happen if you 're using a food processor , blender , or immersion blender . You 're probably normally making mayo that is on the border of insufficient water , so it 's fairly easy to get it to break . When you added more water , the emulsion actually became more stable . That explains why you ca n't get it to break , I have a few suggestions on how to fix : Freeze it . It should break upon thawing . If hand-mixed , use an immersion blender on it . That should thicken a little , by better mixing . ( Assuming you 're not using extra virgin olive oil , which should not be blended ) I 'm sure there are some thickeners that could be added , but I 've never tried thickening mayo like this . Keep in mind that some flavors are fat soluble , some are water soluble , so if you discard part of the water , you may be changing the flavor balance .
Just treat them as you would corned beef . I like the pressure cooker method
Most bakers refer to this as a starter and it is extremely easy to keep up . You will need a plastic bag or a jar to keep it in , a cup of warm water , and some flour . You can either grow some wild yeast or add a particular strain to the growth solution depending what you are trying to do with the yeast . Once you do that , just leave it someplace warm but not over 100 degree F . Then once a day , you feed the yeast by removing half and adding back a half cup of flour and a half cup of water . Once it starts foaming remove to the fridge and remember to feed once a week . It will be with you for the rest of the your time on earth . Also , that half you take out when you feed it ? Makes a great gift to other baking or cooking friends . Also , if you devolop a dark smelly liquid , just stir it back in , it is normal and nothing to worry about .
I 've always done it with my hands . Just do n't let it soak too long , it will still be in one piece and will be generally easy to handle .
Trim your carrots , rutabaga , turnips , etc. to consistent sizes and put in a large saute pan . Add stock or water ( amount will depend on vegetables and their density along with quantitye of vegetables . Start with enough to come about 2/3 up the volume of veg . ) along with some salt , a couple tablespoons of butter and a couple tablespoons of sugar . Bring the liquid to a simmer and cover lightly with a lid or a circle of parchment paper . Simmer until vegetables are getting tender . Remove the lid and continue to simmer until liquid evaporates and sugar and butter create a nice glaze . Watch at the end to make sure the sugar does n't burn . Add any desired herbs , taste and adjust seasoning and serve .
end question
start question
How was the usage of yeast for bread discovered ?
The first yeast was " just there " - in the environment , everywhere . People discovered very early on that leaving the dough ( or just a flour-water slurry ) out would lead to it getting " sour " and " bubbly " , thus leavening the bread : What we today call sourdough is in fact a mixture of yeasts and bacteria ( lactobacillae ) . The origins of bread-making are so ancient that everything said about them must be pure speculation . ( M.G. Gaenzle : Encyclopedia of Food Microbiology ) Early sources are the Bible ( - > the explicit demand for of " unleavened " or " unsoured " bread during Passover suggesting that otherwise was the norm ) and sources from Ancient Egypt . The " modern " yeast that was explicitly added was mentioned by <URL> in his Naturalis historia as a foam skimmed from beer : In Gaul and Spain , where they make a drink by steeping corn in the way that has been already described - they employ the foam which thickens upon the surface as a leaven : hence it is that the bread in those countries is lighter than that made elsewhere . Source : <URL> . Pliny the Elder . John Bostock , M.D. , F.R.S. H.T. Riley , Esq. , B.A. London . Taylor and Francis , Red Lion Court , Fleet Street . 1855 . Sources from the 18th century describe how the <URL> ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) was used for baking , leading to the " specialized strains " of <URL> cultivated separately when the brewers switched to bottom-fermenting yeast ( S. pastorianus ) in the 19th century , which preferred cooler temperatures and was not as easy to harvest as the top-fermenting types . The use of separately cultivated yeast allowed to bake " milder " breads than the sourdough types with their typical acidic undertones but is restricted to certain flour types .
Salt that is used for food consumption is always meant to be sodium chloride ( and may or may not contain other things such as iodine ) . Other " salts " ( to use the term in the chemistry sense ) such as potassium chloride are not generally used by themselves for human consumption or specified in food preparation , even though they are potentially safe to eat . <URL> is still 85 % sodium chloride but because it has additional chemicals/elements/compounds in it , does have a different taste . For best results when baking , use plain table salt , sodium chloride , with or without iodine ( which is added to provide a necessary nutrient for those not living near a salt-water source of fish or not eating enough salt-water fish ) . Note from the link that sea salt does not contain enough iodine to supply a nutritionally adequate amount .
Some answers to your questions , based on my experience with wild sourdough starter in San Francisco : 70-80F is the ideal temperature range . Below that the yeast incubates very slowly ; above it , the starter will tend to ferment alcoholically . Do not leave the starter in direct sun . UV light is a powerful sterilizing agent . An organic , cold-processed ( i.e. stone milled ) flour works best , because it will retain the maximum amount of its own wild yeast on it . Cheeseboard : Collective Works likes to start with rye flour and gradually add bread flour , but they do n't give a tested reason for this . I have never heard of using fruit juice in a sourdough starter . I would be dubious about it ; you 'd be likely to end up with vinegar . Sugar is unnecessary for sourdough starters . Use purified water ; chlorine/chloramine/ozone in tap water can kill your starter . Finally , starters incorporating milk are fridge-only starters ( as opposed to flour-and-water starters , which can be kept at room temperature if split frequently ) which depend on the bacteria and lactic acid from the fermenting milk for part of their sourness . They can be effective , and actually a good choice if you live somewhere with weak/poor wild yeast . Note that you can not transform a milk sourdough into a water sourdough , and using up 2 cups of milk every 2 weeks is more expensive than 2 cups of filtered water .
From <URL> I found that there are two major benefits to using a pie bird Prevent the pie from boiling over in the oven by allowing the steam created when the fruit filling or other contents are cooking to escape from inside the pie Support the pastry crust in the center of the pie , so that it did not sag in the middle Based on the site it seems that they can be put in any type of pie .
Cut it in half before peeling , so that only the end is exposed . Wrap the exposed end with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator . The skin may darken , but that is okay . You should get a day or two easily . Or put all the half bananas in the freezer , and when you have enough , make banana muffins .
Short answer : no , you can not without radically changing the recipe until it is something completely different . See my answer here for more information : <URL>
It sounds like you have Fleischman 's Pizza Crust Yeast ( or a no-doubt quite similar product if from another manufacturer ) . The relevant phrase from the Fleischman marketing web site is : Pizza Crust Yeast is specially-formulated with dough relaxers that keep the dough from pulling or snapping back when shaping it . It is intended to make it easier to stretch the pizza dough into shape . The yeast itself is normal instant yeast , to the best of my knowledge -- the additives in the packet are what make it " pizza crust yeast " . Researching the additional ingredients other than yeast : Sorbitan monostearate -- According to <URL> is an emulsifier with a polar and non-polar ends : Sorbitan monostearate is used as an emulsifying agent in cake mixes , icings , baked goods , puddings , imitation whipped cream , hemorrhoid creams , and creams to treat dry skin . <URL> mentions that this helps the dough absorb the water . l-cysteine * -- is an amino acid , which is naturally occurring , and often extracted from hair or feathers . <URL> explains the science in bread dough , where it acts as a reducing agent : During mixing the gluten in the ﬂour is stretched and pulled apart so that it can be reformed during prooﬁng and baking to provide the needed strength and structure . Reducing agents act like mixing to reversibly break down gluten so that once they have been used up the gluten reforms . This mechanism is the opposite of oxidizing agents , which build up gluten . Reducing and oxidizing agent ascorbic acid * -- is of course Vitamin C , and a fairly strong acid . According to <URL> in Czeck Journal of Food Sciences , at concentrations under 0.6 % it has little effect on wheat flour , so it is unlikely to have any practical effect in a full batch of pizza dough . Its inclusion is probably ( as mentioned in <URL> ) as an anti-oxidant and preservative in the packet , rather than as an active ingredient in the bread dough . enzymes -- no doubt the particular enzymes and their ratios are proprietary to the brand you have , but according to the Wikipedia article on <URL> , they are used to increase transformation of starch into sugars to facilitate the action of the live yeast . Common enzymes used include : Amylases break down the starch in flours into simple sugars , thereby letting yeast ferment quickly . Malt is a natural source of amylase . Proteases improve extensibility of the dough by degrading some of the gluten . Lipoxygenases oxidize the flour . See also this <URL> which discusses various commercially available forms of yeast . My personal opinion is that I would not buy " pizza crust yeast , " since recipes are not designed for the presence of its dough conditioners . I would rather control my dough 's ingredients myself . However , since you have the product , why not try it using the vendor 's recipe ? I would be fascinated to hear how it performs .
Dry biscuits ( American ' biscuits ' - not cookies ) , or anything other flour based quick bread that dried out - if you 're trying to replicate the bread crumbs . You may be able to get by with a modified muffin recipe as well . You 'll want to avoid fats and oils to reduce the moistness . Yeast bread develops a particular flavor and larger hole structure than quick bread though . The flavor of a quick bread breadcrumbs should be slightly different , but in many dishes the subtle difference wo n't be overwhelming unless the breading is a ' star ' of the dish . The hole structure really does n't matter luckily - as developing that is a large part of the time factor of real bread . Drying it out will be the harder part . The denser structure holds moisture better , so slice it thin and give it low , dry , long heat . Personally , anything that you 're going to make for the purpose of breadcrumbs that is n't just a substitute ( like cereal , crackers , etc in the other answer ) , sounds like it 'd be easier just to make a loaf of fast rise bread to me .
Given that the frying of a cube of bread is a test for oil temperature , I suspect one or both of two things are happening here - 1 The oil is not at the correct temperature when the cubes of bread are dropped in it ; and 2 The oil temperature drops when you add too many cubes in at the same time so some get burnt and some end up soggy for the single time duration you 're cooking them for . Suggested solutions - 1 Ensure the oil is at the correct temperature for the level of browness you want the cubes of bread to be fried to . 2 Do n't over-crowd the pan . Fry them in batches , ensuring the oil temperature rises back to the correct one before the next batch is fried .
actually seafood 's country origin does make a very relevant difference . Why ? ocean floor type , water tempearture , tradewinds , upwelling and feed availability . Best octopus comes from Spain and Portugal ( actually portuguese octopus is the best ) Viet , China , Indonesia or Mexican octopus live in hot water . Portuguese coast has a very mild water temp , from 10 C to 20 C and a lot of sun exposure that triggers phytoplankton blooms . I could expand on this as I am a professional fisherman . Now , any country can import any seafood from anywhere and then label it as " theirs " so one must know which species are native to a certain location . Sustainability is also very imnportant and both Portugal and Spain are EU members where sustainability is a very serious matter .
In both cases , you do n't add the recipe 's amount of water to the proofed yeast . If your recipe says e.g. 500 g flour , 300 g water and 10 g fresh yeast , you measure these 300 ml water , then pour some of the 300 ml over 10 g of pressed yeast to proof it , adding a teaspoon of sugar if you want it quicker . After that , you mix flour , proofed yeast and the remaining water together ( for simplicity , I left out salt and possible other ingredients ) . You do it exactly the same way with dry yeast , only you have to use the correct substitute ratio , which is 3:1 . So you measure 300 ml of water and ( 1/3 ) * 10 g = 3.3 g of dry yeast . Then you pour some of the 300 g of water over the dry yeast , and after it has bloomed , you mix flour , sponge and the remaining water . The bread hydration stays correct , and the fermentation time/amount is equivalent to the fresh yeast case .
<URL> describes the process by which yeast is commercially prepared in good detail for an overview . There are several stages of cultivation and growing and increasing the yeast biomass , culminating as its final steps : Treatments and packaging The yeast in the final trade bioreactor is concentrated by centrifugation and finally harvested by a filter press or a rotary vacuum filter , until it contains 27 -- 33 % of dry cell mass . The yeast cake is blended with suitable amounts of water and emulsifiers and cutting oils ( soybean or cottonseed oil ) to obtain its extrudable form . The yeast is then packaged and shipped as compressed fresh baker 's yeast , or thermolysed and dried to form various types of dry yeast . The dried yeast is packed under vacuum or nitrogen atmosphere . The packaging method varies among manufacturers and depends on the type of yeast product . Note that this process requires assorted items of industrial or laboratory equipment which may not be suitable to the home environment , including centrifuges and filter presses or vacuuum filters . If you really only want to preserve your starter strain without maintaining an active starter , simply drying a sample and then storing it in the freezer may be a better option . This process is described at <URL> .
Summary : It 's impossible to give a good statistical answer to this question , since historically botulism was associated with only certain foods , and diagnosis was mostly based on symptoms occurring after consumption of those foods . Thus , old statistics include a small subset of actual cases . Actual medical testing for botulism in an ambiguous case was not common until at least the mid-20th century ( after most modern food-safety protocols to prevent it came into effect ) . In any case , the reason why protocols came into effect was likely due to the seriousness of the illness . Between 1900 and 1950 , the U.S. fatality rate from confirmed cases of botulism was greater than 60 % . So , even if the incidence of this type of food poisoning was very small , there was great interest in prevention . The two main botulism prevention techniques ( nitrate/nitrite curing of meats and pressure-canning ) were understood by the 1920s and widely implemented commercially . More details ( including more than you ever wanted to know about the history of sausage illnesses ) below . Part 1 : Why We Cure Meat I should start out by noting that this is a very hard question to answer . The specific botulism bacteria <URL> , so we can not know the exact cause of illnesses before then . Historically , botulism illness was also associated with certain foods , so cases caused by other foods were not considered to be " botulism . " Foodborne illness in general was probably quite common in the past , but it 's hard to come up with exact numbers for the same reason that we tend to have arguments and questions periodically here about people saying , " I 've been doing this all my life in this way , and the food never caused me a problem ! " Even if a particular illness is frequently associated with food , it 's hard to identify the cause without a lab test . And if illness is delayed by hours or even a day or more , people may not make any association with food that was previously eaten . Botulism is one of the few foodborne illnesses that was identified earlier ( back in the 1700s ) only because its death rate was so high . Historically , it was likely a significant cause of illness , particularly in processed meats . The word botulism comes from Latin botulus , meaning " sausage , " because it was originally associated with sausage-making . Botulism was clearly identified in the <URL> . Due to the efforts of Justinus Kerner , the Kingdom of Württemberg ( now a part of Germany ) passed laws requiring the reporting of all incidents of sausage poisoning . Within a 35-year span , there were 234 reported cases , with 110 fatalities . Keep in mind these are deaths from one type of food ( and most of them specifically from blood sausage ) in a population of only a few hundred thousand . ( For comparison , there were a bit over 1000 cases of foodborne botulism from all foods in the entire U.S. from 1950-2000 , in a population nearly a thousand times bigger . ) And these estimates from Württemberg are still low , since more and more cases were identified over that period as people became more familiar with the symptoms and likely cause . Of course , we can not confirm that all cases from Württemberg were actually botulism , since no bacteria test could be done ; some were undoubtedly early cases of trichinosis or other diseases . But Kerner identified many of the symptoms , as well as realizing the necessity of the absence of air . ( Sausages which were not stuffed fully did n't seem to cause the illness . ) So it 's likely many if not most were actual cases of botulism . Even after the cause was discovered and more sanitary methods encouraged , sausage botulism was still a major problem in Germany until the early 20th century ( with about 800 cases and 200 fatalities occurring between 1886 and 1913 ) . Once the bacteria had been identified , new protocols could be put in place , and these numbers declined dramatically . The use of nitrates and nitrates as a curing agent for meats ( which dates back centuries ) became standard practice in the 1920s , since nitrate/nitrite was shown to prevent botulism bacteria growth . Although they are criticized by some today , nitrates or nitrites are absolutely essential to guaranteeing the safety of meat stored for long periods . ( It should be noted that most " uncured " meats advertised today actually contain adequate amounts of added nitrate/nitrite to prevent botulism growth ; these chemicals are just added in " natural " sources like celery powder/juice . Thus , they 're still " cured , " just with a different source for nitrate/nitrite . ) Uncured meats continue to be a problem , for example , in Alaska , where <URL> result in a botulism rate many times the rest of the U.S. ( The CDC reports that Alaska accounts for around 15 % of botulism cases , despite having only about 0.2 % of the U.S. population . ) In an era where more people are becoming interested in homemade charcuterie , it 's important to keep in mind the etymological root of the word botulism and why it 's abs
In the general case , it is not possible . As you cook meat past about 165 F , all of the proteins will have denatured and contracted , squeezing out moisture . This is what makes well done meat tough and stringy or rubbery . This process can not really be reversed , although you can try to mask it with a sauce . In the specific case of certain cuts -- the ones famous for braises or barbecue , the " low and slow " cooking techniques -- there is some hope , but it is a thin one depending on what you have been doing . These cuts , the most active working parts of the animal such as the shoulders ( chuck for beef or butt for pork ) have a great deal of intramuscular fat , as well as connective tissue made of a protein called collagen . Over time , when cooked slowly at temperatures of about 180 F , the collagen in the meat will turn into gelatin , which has a silky , smooth mouth feel , and the fat will lubricate the meat . They still have their proteins irreversibly dentures and tightened , but the gelatin and fat provide a new kind of moisture and unctuousness that is highly prized . The cooking techniques for this ( braising , barbecuing , slow roasting ) are rarely employed for chops or steaks that you would do in the frying pan . They also simply do n't have the collagen or the fat to make it possible . That is why they are better off with the higher temperature , faster cooking methods , but should not be overcooked , as you have discovered to your dismay . Your best option is not to try to recover from this situation , which is very difficult to do , but rather to learn to prevent it : Get a good instant read thermometer to check the internal temperature of your steaks or chops Learn what the safe temperature is for that type of meat . For example , poultry and pork should both be cooked to at least 155 F ( and for poultry , many people have learned to like even more done meat ) The FDA recommends 165 F for ground meat ( which is quite well done ) Measure the temperature of your meat and learn to recognize when it is done Assess what level of risk you are willing to accept Over time , you will learn to recognize when cuts are done to your liking by how they feel when you poke them with your finger ( which is a pretty good indication of how done they are , based on how resilient they are ) , but the thermometer will be your guide until you build that experience . Still , this will require that you adjust your expectations of what completely cooked meat looks like . Pork may still be a touch rosy , for example .
I believe you 're thinking of " mignardises . " This is what they call it on the french laundry menu , and others . Another possibility is " Petit Fours " , which are small pastries typically served at the end of a meal . I believe there is some overlap in the use of the two terms .
I 'm not going to comment on whether or not it is safe , because that could be any number of issues other than the brown coloring of the meat . However , the brown in and of itself is not an issue . When meat is exposed to air it turns a brown color . This does not effect the falvor of the meat , but the color turns a lot of people off . Grocery stores will actually throw this meat away , not because it is bad but just because people wo n't buy it . Terribly wasteful . From the <URL> : Optimum surface color of fresh meat ( i.e. , cherry-red for beef ; dark cherry-red for lamb ; grayish-pink for pork ; and pale pink for veal ) is highly unstable and short-lived . When meat is fresh and protected from contact with air ( such as in vacuum packages ) , it has the purple-red color that comes from myoglobin , one of the two key pigments responsible for the color of meat . When exposed to air , myoglobin forms the pigment , oxymyoglobin , which gives meat a pleasingly cherry-red color . The use of a plastic wrap that allows oxygen to pass through it helps ensure that the cut meats will retain this bright red color . However , exposure to store lighting as well as the continued contact of myoglobin and oxymyoglobin with oxygen leads to the formation of metmyoglobin , a pigment that turns meat brownish-red . This color change alone does not mean the product is spoiled
Generally , no , it should not be overly gritty . The grind itself should be very fine , finer than an espresso grind . Secondly after the coffee is brewed , it 's generally covered and left for a while so that the coffee grounds settle to the bottom of the pot . Then , when being poured , it should be poured carefully so the settled grounds are n't disturbed and end up in the cup . If you do n't let it settle , you 'll have a lot of the coffee grinds floating in the cup and it 'll have a powdery texture ( although it should be overly gritty given the fineness of the grind ) . You 'll generally still get a little of the coffee grinds in the cup but it should n't be a small amount and it should settle to the bottom . Generally , the coffee is unsweetened ( as many take it unsweetened ) but it is commonly spiced with cardamon . The host will generally sweeten each cup to taste or will provide a small bowl of sugar allowing drinkers to sweeten the coffee to their own taste .
I 've used yeast that was even older than yours and although the taste of the resulting bread was fine , and it foamed up properly when tested , I found I had to use about 50 % more of it to get the same density of the bread . In the end , I threw it out because it was too much trouble to experiment with it every time .
There are three major things that will cause collapsed yeast raised breads : Underdeveloped gluten ( possibly from insufficient kneading ) , which does n't create enough of the gluten network to hold the gas from the yeast , especially during oven spring . This may be exacerbated by using low-protein flours , which do not generate as much gluten as high-protein flours ( called strong flours in Europe ) . This tends not to manifest as a collapse , so much , as a failure to rise . Considerable overkneading , to the point where the gluten network begins to break down , and can not hold the gas ( this is quite unlikely , unless machine kneaded ) Over-proofing ( allowing to rise or ferment too long ) , which creates more gas than the gluten cells can hold , leading to their rupture and collapse when the heat of the oven causes expansion and oven spring . This leads to collapse of the loaf . Without more information , it is difficult to tell which of these you are experiencing .
They 're likely referring to di-ammonium phosphate , which is used in wine making and mead brewing , as it provides nitrogen to accelerate the yeast growth . I found a site giving <URL> as a replacement , but it might be easier ( and safer ) to just go to a shop that specializes in brewing or wine making supplies and getting the right stuff . ( I have no idea how expensive it is , as I 've never done it ) Your other option would be to find an alternate recipe that does n't call for it ... it might take longer to brew , though .
end question
start question
What differences , practical and aesthetic , are there between egg washes ?
Good question @mfg . I hope I can help a little bit . The basics behind the egg wash are to provide for a couple different thing . These being shine , crispness , and color . Shine The shine is primarily provided by the egg yolk . The higher concentration of yolk the more shine . Crispness This come from the egg whites . The whites make things a little crispy and sometimes can crackle a little bit ( mainly when usually by themselves ) . Color This comes from the fat and protein . Leaving the yoke in along with the shine will add color . You can add water to lighten the color a bit . I find that using the white also dilutes the color a bit but not as much ( but the white also makes it crisp ) . Add cream or milk to get it a little bit darker . Salt I often find people adding salt to an egg wash . I does provide some flavor to the crust , but I have noticed that for some reason ( when using a whole egg ) it does allow it to get a little darker than it would normally . Sugar Like salt it adds flavor ( sweetness ) to the crust . And it will also add some color . Especially if baking at a higher temp and using a raw or brown type sugar . Alcohol I have seen the use of alcohol quite a number of times . From the results I have seen it behaves like water . Although not the the same degree . My guess is that it has to do with how fast the alcohol evaporates . As far as flavor , I ca n't say that it added much at the levels used . I did once definitely get a hint of a bourbon being used in the wash on a pretty plain white loaf . But they did mix in quite a good amount of bourbon to just an egg yolk . That is all I have really used myself or seen . I am sure that you can use other liquids although I do n't know what vinegar would do . Just keep in mind if they are high in fat , protein , or sugar they will add color . Otherwise they will lighten the color . I have also seen melted butter just used as a wash . It adds a nice color and buttery flavor . I have n't seen it added to egg wash but I would assume you could add to egg yolk to get a shine and probably darker color than cream/milk . Another important thing to remember is to beat your wash well when using for a bread coating . Unlike if your just using the was was to seal say a ravioli . If your egg was is spotty not one nice fully incorporated mixture your crust can also be spotty .
In the U.S. biscuits are made with chemical leavening , they use baking powder to cause them to rise . Rolls ( or dinner rolls ) are yeast bread . There are obviously other differences in the recipe ( s ) but baking powder vs. yeast is the essential difference .
The problem is , both Sarge 's and Carmi 's answers are right depending on who is using the word . Some people use the word seasoning to just mean salt , some mean salt and pepper , and some mean " anything you want to use to bring the flavor to the desired point , including salt , pepper , lemon juice , spices , herbs , etc. " If you are dealing with someone in person , it is best to ask . With a cookbook , sometimes you can figure it out from context or from other recipes . Otherwise , you 'll have to make your own best call . In my own recipes , I will generally write " taste and adjust seasoning , adding salt and/or more lemon juice as needed " .
Butterscotch and caramel are very different things . The taste difference between the two is far from ' slight ' in my opinion . Caramel is typically made with granulated sugar , milk and/or cream , butter , and sometimes vanilla . The primary flavors of caramel are the sugar and milk/cream . Butterscotch on the other hand is made with brown sugar . It 's primary flavors are brown sugar and butter . It typically also contains milk/cream but they are not as prominent as caramel . Toffee is butterscotch that has been cooked to the <URL> stage . There is no liquor in butterscotch . There is a lot of leeway in what things get called caramel , butterscotch , and toffee . The important differences to keep in mind are that caramel is made with granulated sugar , whereas toffee and butterscotch are made with brown sugar and much more butter .
With chicken and turkey , the most important " trick " to cooking it is to make sure the dark meat gets done before the white meat dries out , and to make sure the skin crisps up somewhat . Duck is all dark meat , and has a thick layer of fat that must be rendered out . There is not a lot of danger in drying out the breast meat like with a chicken . Like Martha said , it 's best to make a few shallow cuts in the skin over the breast ( do n't go all the way through to the meat ) to help the fat render out . A simple ( western ) roasted bird would be cooked at 350 & deg ; F for about 1 hour 45 min , with the oven turned up to 500 & deg ; F for another 15 minutes to crisp up the skin . There is a LOT of fat rendered out , so it 's best to roast in a sturdy roasting pan , on a rack ( so it does n't sit in the fat ) , and drain the fat about an hour into cooking ( save the fat , though ; it 's delicious ) . Personally , I think duck is easier to cook , but it 's definitely different from roasting a chicken .
Yes there is a significant difference between the two . I would put them at pretty close to opposite ends of the coffee spectrum . French Press : Generally made with a coarse grind , longer steeping time . Result is a weaker ( less concentrated ) more typical American style coffee . This will likely be consumed in the same way as a typical filtered , drip coffee would . Moka Pot : Made with a much finer grind . And while many will argue it 's not true espresso . It is much closer to being an espresso . I do n't really care what you call it , but it 'll be a much stronger more robust coffee . The same amount of coffee will be extracted to a smaller quantity of water . This would be consumed in the same way as an espresso would . You can water it down to make an Americano , etc. . .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
While I found many references to Chinese egg noodles , I did not find much information on Japanese egg noodles . Digging into the edit history of your question , it appears that the actual product you would like to substitute for is <URL> . Their website is parsimonious with information , but does call the product vermicelli , and only indicates that they are made with wheat , and does not mention egg . <URL> , a producer of Asian ingredients for the US market , suggests using suggests substituting Italian style fettuccine or spaghetti for Chinese egg noodles . Putting this all together , you should be able to substitute dried Italian vermicelli , spaghetti , fettuccine or angel hair in the your recipe with good results . Check the package to ensure that the ingredients are only semolina ( and water ) , as some Italian pastas are made with egg ( this is most likely with the fettuccine shape ) . Any non-egg based semolina pasta will be completely cholesterol free . See also : <URL> from Recipe Tips .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
Yes , yes there is . Black truffles are dark , earthy , sexy in flavour . Renaissance writings compare them to ' unwashed slatterns ' and ' bedchambers , rooms of sexual congress , unaired and reeking of the recent activities contained therein . ' White truffles are lighter in aroma and flavour , with distinct garlicky notes . Each has their place -- black works better on its own , white works better as an adjunt or finishing note to a dish . I am personally partial to white truffle oil drizzled on cured duck breast , or a black truffle risotto with charred endive .
Good Answer Hobodave ... tacking onto that : Most southern U.S. brands ( White Lily , Martha White ) of all-purpose flour are bleached because southerners tend to make more quick breads ( biscuits , cornbread , hoecakes , pancakes , as well as cakes , pie crusts , cobblers ) where tenderness is desired . White Lily has just started producing unbleached all-purpose flour as well . Brands from the Northeast ( King Arthur ) and midwest are usually unbleached because those regions tend to make more yeast breads and the additional gluten forming capability of unbleached flour produces better results . National U.S. brands ( Pillsbury/Gold Medal ) often produce both types or stick with unbleached . Cake flour is always bleached ( usually chlorine gas ) . More information on differences in types of flour can be found in my article titled <URL>
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
" Tahini Sauce " and " Taratour Sauce " , which are sauces based on tahini , are often simply called " tahini " . Generally the recipe is tahini , lemon juice , salt , and optionally herbs and/or garlic . Example recipes : <URL> <URL>
Mincing produces smaller , more irregularly-shaped items than dicing . Dicing is generally uniform , usually 1/8 to 1/4 inch on all sides , kind of like a tiny cube . The best way to explain the size difference is visually , check out <URL> for a great picture near the top .
As a Chinese , who have had many mitten crabs in my life , I think I can provide 2 insights : In Chinese culinary culture , it 's not only meat that 's the most appreciated , but rather the taste , texture and the freshness especially with seafood . Mitten crabs during the autumn season contains a lot of eggs under the shell . The flavour of the eggs are what 's appreciated as well . Mitten crabs ( not sure in the US ) are safe to be consumed from food safety perspective as long as it 's being cooked properly like any other seafood .
I very quickly found nutritional information for storebought ( Swanson ) <URL> and <URL> . As you 'd expect , neither one contains all that much protein . The stock does contain substantially more : 4g per cup compared to 1g - this should also be expected , since stock has some gelatin in it , and gelatin is mostly protein . Of course , it 's commercially made ; I imagine you 'd be hard-pressed to find good nutritional data for homemade stock and broth .
I 'd say yes , honey is a bit healthier than sugar , but this really depends on the type of sugar or honey . Raw honey is better than pasteurized honey . Highly refined sugar is less healthy than some less refined sugar . Assuming you are talking about table sugar and raw honey , in general : Sugar is sucrose . You need some enzymes to split it into fructose and glucose , your body has to make these enzymes and can digest those mono-sacharides . When you eat honey , there is no need for such body-made enzymes , because the fructose and glucose are n't combined , but they appear there as mono-sacharides . So honey is less demanding for your body . Honey is better for your blood-glucose level ( this level raises more if you eat sugar than if you eat the same amount of honey ) . Honey contains some vitamins and minerals , which sugar lacks . As a consequence of all these points : If you use sugar , you have a higher risk of high cholesterol and obesity than if you use honey . I did n't mention anything about the taste , since that is not health-related . Source and more info : <URL>
A regular electric oven uses a large coiled resistor as a heating element . A large electric current is passed through this element which generates heat , similar to the tungsten filament of an incandescent light bulb . An induction stove does n't actually generate heat itself , but rather induces it the pot or pan . It does this using a rapidly oscillating magnetic field . This field induces an electric current in a ferromagnetic pan which generates heat , thus heating the food . Induction stoves are faster , safer , and more energy efficient than traditional electric stoves . It requires significantly less electricity to create the magnetic field than it does to drive enough current through a resistor to make it heat up . They are safer because they do n't actually generate heat themselves . After taking a pot off the " burner " ( glass surface ) it quickly begins to cool . With regards to differences in the cooking process , there 's not much . You just need to be aware that it heats up much more quickly and cools down much more quickly than a traditional electric stove . It does affect your choice of pans however . All aluminum pans will not work , nor will some lower quality stainless steel ones . If a magnet sticks to the pan then it will work just fine . The pan must also have a flat bottom to make full contact with the surface .
end question
start question
How do I " evaporate " milk ?
Very easy . All you want to do is to remove the water through heating . As you are not going to can it , you do n't have to sterilize it afterwards . The only concern when evaporating milk is to not end with a layer of scorched milk solids on the bottom . First , start with homogenized milk ( you do n't want to risk undissolved fat swimming on top of it ) . If you want the pure milk flavor , heat it to 70 ° C and wait until you are left with half the initial volume . This takes several hours , depending on the quantity of the milk . My great-grandma usually did it overnight . If you do n't mind a " scorched " taste , you can do it much quicker . Take a very big pot . It should be at least 6-7 times higher than the milk depth , because the boiling milk will foam up a lot . The width is up to you , but the wider the pot , the quicker it will go . Bring the milk to a vigorous boil . Use a setting which is just hot enough to sustain boiling , too much heat will increase the scorching . Stir all the time . You need maybe 10 minutes of stirring , again depending on quantity of the milk and pot width . You are aiming for the same rate of evaporation - you should be left with half the original volume , or somewhat less . You do n't have to add sugar to evaporated milk , the sweet taste is caused by the heating . Especially the boiling-evaporated milk is quite sweet , because you get some caramelization .
I have n't used goat milk in my baking because I do n't like the taste of goats milk . I suspect it would be a good idea for you to taste goats milk first to see if you like it if you have n't already . Other than that , there 's no reason to not use it . As far as fat content goes , I only use full-fat dairy in my bread . No adjustments to the recipe are needed .
If you have one , a potato ricer is very effective at removing moisture from things that do n't drain effectively with gravity alone , e.g. sauerkraut , cooked spinach , salted cabbage , salted squash/marrow , etc. . In my experience , it 's more effective , and easier to clean , than a salad spinner . <URL> ( For best results , look for the kind that 's pictured above , with holes only on the bottom , not the sides . Otherwise , you 're liable to end up shooting sauerkraut juice halfway across your kitchen . )
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
Just treat them as you would corned beef . I like the pressure cooker method
Yes , you could certainly reconstitute evaporated milk by adding water . The outcome would give you similar but not identical results as fresh milk , due to the change in flavor the milk underwent while being cooked down to the evaporated state : it will retain the slightly cooked , caramelized flavor . This may or many not have a significant effect on a given recipe . Milk also freezes , and still is suitable for most cooking purposes , should you choose to do so . Finally , if you use milk very rarely , unless you are making a dairy dominated recipe like custard or cream soup , you may not have to use milk at all . Water or another liquid might perform similarly or well enough -- it depends on the specific application .
I would guess your main problem is the protein in the flour . To get that stretchy dough that will not tear you need bread flour . Your water , the proportion between kneading and resting of the dough , and the salt also matter . The recipe you are using has way too much fat in the dough . The <URL> suggested by bonCodigo is closer to the needed proportions . <URL> on roti canai . Flour . You can buy roti flour from an ethnic grocery store , but many of the chain supermarkets in the US now carry bread flour . It has higher protein content without being whole grain . Different flours have different proportions of gluten . Those with lower content ( called weak flours ) being better for cakes and those higher content ( strong flours ) , better for breads . Gluten is not one protein , but a mixture of two protein families : gliadins , which give the dough its plasticity , and glutenins , which give the dough its strength . Different strains of wheat have different ratios of gliadins to glutenins , hence the need to find an appropriate flour . In the US and Canada , high protein flours tend to be optimized for loaf breads and not flat breads , so some hunting around for a good brand may be needed . Ghee The recipes on the net vary dramatically in the amount of fat added to the dough . The basic process of dough making is to get the water to break up the gluten in the flour and then stretch those giant molecules to create a network of stringy , tangled molecules . Too much fat interferes with this process . About 5g of fat for every 100g of flour is a good ratio . As ghee adds flavor , the trick to make a dough with higher ghee content is to think of it as a croissant and fold the fat in after the dough has incorporated some water . This is done by brushing the ghee in later stages of stretch and fold . Kneading and resting Making the network of gluten proteins requires energetic changes . Lots of water and rest could do it ( as in no-knead breads ) and so could a little water , a little rest , and a lot of kneading . With flat breads one does not need to wait for the yeasts to create the bubbles in the dough . The resting is for the water to do its work of untangling the gluten . The trick is to know if the water activity , resting , and kneading have brought the dough to the right point . There are many <URL> that are better explained through a video . The dough in the leaner recipe is a wetter dough that is a bit trickier to knead by hand . <URL> is to place it on an oiled countertop , pinch a corner , and fold it over . Repeat a few times and it will become easier to handle without having to add extra flour as it often suggested . Water . Do n't use tap water . It may be too alkaline , to hard , or too chlorinated . Andrew Whitley in his Bread Matters book has a chapter on how guilty he felt using Evian to make his bread , but it improved his bread . For flat breads one is less worried that the chlorine in the water will kill the yeast , but depending on your tap water composition , the other chemicals could be an issue .
SAFETY should be your primary concern in all cooking methods . The danger inherent in cutting dense , hard , ROUND foods is that they tend to roll or shift when pressure is applied , thus allowing hand or fingers to suddenly slip under/against the cutting edge . One key to safety is STABILITY . Hasty chopping , hacking , swinging , or stabbing motions are dangerous -- especially if you ca n't be sure the food will stay put . Firm , controlled movement upon a stable surface is the safe way . Placing the squash on a nest fashioned from a tightly-wadded or rolled , clean kitchen towel is a good way to achieve stability . It is also important to work with a very sharp knife that has a rather thick blade . This acts like a wedge acts in wood-splitting . The knife should also be several inches longer than the diameter of the widest place on the squash , to allow for gripping both ends of the blade during the final cut through . Place the squash on your towel nest , use another kitchen towel , folded , as a sort of mitt . This " mitt " should be thin enough that you can grasp firmly with it . ( 100 % cotton towelling usually grips better . ) Using your mitt , grip the wider end of the squash ; insert the tip of the knife into one of the longitudinal ridges , with the cutting edge away from that mitted hand , until the knife has nearly come out the opposite side , lodging in the flesh of the squash on the opposite side . Then , lever the knife edge down in a motion that uses the lodged knife-point as a fulcrum . ( Think of the motion of a paper-cutter . ) Flip the squash over , repeating this , until the pointed end is cut all the way through . Up-end the squash , placing it on its stem end in the towel nest . Check for stability . Place your knife into the slit , perpendicular to the axis of the squash . Use your gripping towel to pad the non-cutting side of the knife , then press down until the squash is cleaved through .
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
Handling raw milk is risky , and please note this information is not professional advice and is not to be taken as an authoritative response . I will , however , attempt to provide some thoughts on handling raw milk below . Selling unpasteurized milk is illegal in some countries , and official sources usually discourage the consumption of raw milk instead of offering handling instructions ( for good reason ) . The FDA has <URL> on dangers of raw milk . There are other real dangers such as <URL> with which I bouted as an 8-year old . Think of 107F fever . Also , keep in mind when you boil the raw milk you are going through a similar process as pasteurization in regards to the theory on breaking down the complex proteins and <URL> . Probably even more than pasteurization since that occurs at lower temperatures . Those theories , however , are n't proven ( yet ) as far as I know , but you do burn some of the sugars in milk if you go above 70C . The actual answers : 2 : It is better to boil first for sure . Do n't store raw milk for lengths of time . 3 : Theoretically , if you do everything right and vacuum pack the milk , it might last a couple of weeks , but the longer it stays , the more dangerous it can get . Freezing might be a better option ( we keep our pasteurized milk a couple of months in the freezer ) . 1 : I ca n't tell you how long to boil it for , though the last time I had fresh milk , it was kept simmering on the burner for about 5 minutes by the folks at the farm . It was also minutes after it was collected ( fresher is better ) . one of the safest things you can do if you 're going to have raw milk , is to know the source and get it from a farm that takes care of the conditions . If you know the farm , the farmer , and the cows conditions are safe , you 're more likely to be able to enjoy raw milk in peace .
The problem that most people make when doing a breading is that they try to put on too thick of a coating of any given layer . Breading sticks because wet sticks to dry , and visa-versa . As such , you need to give the item a good shake after it leaves each dry station , and a moment or so to drip ( and a little bit of shaking here helps , too ) after it leaves a wet station . I 've also seen recommendations to let the breaded item sit for a while before cooking -- I can only assume that this is to allow moisture to migrate into the dry breading , or for the egg to set up some before it turns to steam ( which could result in that layer separating ) . So , some suggestions to fix your recipe : Do n't use the milk , but also do n't dry your meat . Use whole eggs , but make sure they 're well beaten ( the color will go to a pale yellow ) . The whites act as more of a ' glue ' while the yolks only serve to wet things down . Make sure to shake the item after it 's gone in the flour . If the eggs layer is going on too thickly , thin it with a bit of water before you do the next item . Really press the crumbs in on the final station . Shake the container to get a good distribution , then set the item in there . Spoon the crumbs from the side on top of the item 'til you ca n't see it , then press the crumbs into the item . Shake the item as it comes out of the breadcrumb station , or leave it to set for a few minutes on a sheet tray or wire rack , or both .
I do n't believe there is a fool-proof way to determine ' ripeness ' without taking a slice out of it . The best you can do is look for certain signs : Ripe melons have a hollow sound when you tap or slap the outside Look for the patch where the melon would have been on the ground ( called the field spot ) . If it 's a yellow colour its probably ripe , if it 's white , it 's probably not . It should feel relatively heavy when lifted Weird areas on the skin are n't necessarily bad . insects may have tried to start eating the fruit because it is ripe , but have only marred the surface . Unfortunately , melons do n't continue to ripen once picked , unlike fruits such as apples , bananas etc. which contain ethylene . As a tip do n't store melons with these kinds of fruit , they may well go ' soggy ' . Extra : <URL> .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
Depending on where you live , there is a pretty simple approach you can try . In the next few days , head out to places that specialize in particular kinds of foods and in making them appeal to you . A farmer 's market , a butcher 's , a cheese shop , a bakery , etc. . Chat with the staff and buy whatever speaks to you in the store . When you come home , make whatever meals you feel inspired to make according to what you 've bought . Be creative and impulsive and seasonal . Keep doing that until one day you notice there is n't any food , and either go out and shop or eat something canned and go to shop the next day . In probably a week 's time , one of two things will happen . Either you will be feeling free , creative , inspired etc and so happy you are doing things this new way , or you will have thrown out a lot of expensive food that spoiled before you could use it , and be feeling very stressed and unhappy at 4 or 5 pm each day because you have to figure out what to make . If it 's the former , mission accomplished . If it 's the latter , you now have your motivation for the planning and the list making , and should find it more pleasant since you know its purpose and what it is saving you from . Either way , the " I hate having to plan my meals " feeling should diminish drastically .
Your best bet for this is xanthan gum , which is an excellent stabiliser . Whilst the distinction between ' natural ' and ' unnatural ' is fraught with difficulties , insofar as xanthan gum is a product of microbial fermentation then it is no more ' unnatural ' than alcohol or vinegar . Be careful not to use too much though ( unless , of course , you want your drink to have the texture of mucus ) , you really only want to use about 0.4 % of the volume of the liquid you 're trying to stabilise : so if you have 500ml of milk then you would use 2g of gum . Add it to your liquid and use a blender or an immersion stick to incorporate , a few pulses should do , any more than that and you 'll just incorporate air and you could just end up with an annoyingly stable foam !
Poaching is a gentle process - the milk is n't boiling so there is no risk of it burning or the like . It will of course not spoil in the sense of it going off , that 's a totally different process . Fresh milk is better because , well , it 's fresh . Powdered milk would probably work , but if you have fresh , use that .
Empty the water from inside the coconut , as this is not the milk you want . Crack open your coconut and scrape out the meat . In a blender , take about half your meat and roughly 1 1/2 cups of hot water ( more or less depending on your desired thickness ) , and process . Repeat step 3 with the other half of the meat . Place a few layers of cheesecloth over a bowl and strain the milk through . Wrap up the cheesecloth and squeeze the rest of the milk out . No special press or tools needed . However , some sort of press could help get the last few drops out when squeezing the mass through the cheesecloth . I do n't think the water necessarily has to be hot . Some sources say to just use water , while other say hot . You may also want to start out with just 1/2 cup water and see how much it yields . Keep in mind : coconuts are n't super juicy . So expect the yield to be roughly equivalent to the amount of water used . The flesh is still perfectly usable , but its applications may be limited based on how much you processed it ( in terms of size ) . <URL> has the step-by-step I used with a few ( albeit not very helpful ) pictures .
Water treatment often uses chlorine or chloramine to kill germs or algae . If you are smelling it it 's more likely to be Chloramine than Chlorine . Chlorine will dissipate from water over time naturally , but boiling for 20 minute will drive it out . Chloramine will also dissipate naturally , but in a much longer time frame , and would take over a day to boil out . So boiling water will get rid of chlorine but not chloramine ( at least not in a useful time frame ) , and boiling will concentrate other minerals in the water which is usually undesirable . It will also de-oxygenate the water , making it flat . Flat water is n't great for cooking - compare the flavor of a cup of tea or coffee brewed with flat water as opposed to fresh and you 'll see what I mean . Your best option for water treatment chemical removal at home is an activated charcoal filter unless you want to invest in a UV treatment system , which would seem to be a bit OTT . You could also use a reducing agent from a brewery supply company , but if all you want is some fresh tasting and smelling water then the filter is your best option . <URL> has a thread on this which is worth reading .
Mayo that splits is typically from one of two things : Insufficient water Insufficient mixing leading to large droplets ( It 's hardly ever insufficient emulsifier , as one yolk can do many cups of mayo . ) The lack of mixing can happen fairly easily with a whisk , but it wo n't happen if you 're using a food processor , blender , or immersion blender . You 're probably normally making mayo that is on the border of insufficient water , so it 's fairly easy to get it to break . When you added more water , the emulsion actually became more stable . That explains why you ca n't get it to break , I have a few suggestions on how to fix : Freeze it . It should break upon thawing . If hand-mixed , use an immersion blender on it . That should thicken a little , by better mixing . ( Assuming you 're not using extra virgin olive oil , which should not be blended ) I 'm sure there are some thickeners that could be added , but I 've never tried thickening mayo like this . Keep in mind that some flavors are fat soluble , some are water soluble , so if you discard part of the water , you may be changing the flavor balance .
end question
start question
During flambé , what is the powder that is shaken into the fire to create sparks ?
just a cinnamon or cinnamon blend with nutmeg and other spices will make sparks when tossed into the fire . You do need a big flame for this ; I typically use a camp chef stove with a modified propane regulator to get the big flame needed .
According to <URL> and confirmed by several others I found on the internet , the Humboldt Squid produces ammonia chloride as a defense mechanism , or as a side effect of asphixiation , or maybe both . I could n't find terribly reliable advice on how to avoid the contamination , but two points were repeatedly suggested on various bulletin boards : When you catch the humboldt squid , cut its head off , clean and ice it immediately ( on the boat ) . when cleaning it , be careful not to puncture the swim bladder . The other suggestion repeatedly offered was to catch some other kind of squid . Hope that helps . For more 3rd-hand advice , search the internet for " squid ammonia flavor " and you 'll see lots of bulletin boards and similar sources .
Place on non-stick sprayed foil ; broil for ~ 4 minutes in oven with some source of moisture or a glaze over top ( ie , you might take salmon and add a soy/mustard glaze ) to protect hydration levels .
I believe you 're thinking of " mignardises . " This is what they call it on the french laundry menu , and others . Another possibility is " Petit Fours " , which are small pastries typically served at the end of a meal . I believe there is some overlap in the use of the two terms .
The world record holder is currently the Carolina Reaper <URL> ( as of AUG 2013 ) . This pepper began its family tree as a crossbreed between a Ghost Chili pepper and a Red Habanero . The LA Times <URL> that the hottest Reaper has been clocked at 2.2 Million Scoville units . That 's higher than some commercial pepper spray products . They go on to cite a study conducted by Winthrop University ( South Carolina , US ) that claims the average is closer to 1.5 M. For funsies , <URL> of my buddy eating a Scorpion pepper ( the pepper that originally surpassed the Bhut Jolokia at 1.2 M Scoville in 2012 ) to celebrate a viewership milestone on his Twitch channel . Contains cursing and lots of spitting . It 's not pretty . What a time to be alive .
Garlic flavors are soluble in oil , simply chopping up garlic and putting it in with the rice will not distribute the flavor well . I would recommend you chop the garlic finely and then infuse into a tablespoon of oil or butter by putting the pan on very low heat for a few minutes . Then add the rice and stir to coat the grains with the infused oil before adding water and cooking as normal . How much garlic to use depends on how strong your garlic is and how garlic-y you want it to taste . 5 tbsp of rice is n't much , for a medium garlic flavor using average strength garlic a whole small clove or half a large is probably enough . With the garlic I grow I 'd add a few slices from a clove at most . Another option would be to cook the rice and then stir in the garlic infused oil afterwards , The benefits to this option are that you can drain the rice after cooking without all the flavor going down the drain .
just a cinnamon or cinnamon blend with nutmeg and other spices will make sparks when tossed into the fire . You do need a big flame for this ; I typically use a camp chef stove with a modified propane regulator to get the big flame needed .
It 's a little hard to understand exactly what you 're asking , but flavor and fragrance scientists have been at this for a long time , and yes , there are people who specialize in flavor research , using methods like " collecting headspace " ( gathering flavor compounds ) and analyzing those with techniques such as gas chromatography . They work to figure out what the " most relevant " compounds are in a particular food . Seasoned professionals are usually able to recognize and name specific flavor compounds by smell . But with a few exceptions , most of those chemicals are n't super easy to just buy off of a shelf somewhere without consulting with IFF or a similar company . ( You can buy artificial vanilla , for example , and methyl anthranilate , the dominant flavor from concord grapes used in artificial grape flavoring , as a bird repellant ) . So for most of us without labs for fermenting synbio vanilla , we will find it more cost effective to use the original ingredient . Most foods have hundreds of distinct flavor compounds and fooling the tongue , and especially the nose , is n't super easy . But it can be done in some cases , sure . It 's worth noting that a great portion of how we experience flavor comes from texture in addition to the flavor compounds , however . Even when you buy a flavored chip that is meant to taste like steak or mango salsa or whatever , you 'll often find it a bit off , perhaps the food industry 's equivalent of the " uncanny valley " problem , thanks to texture and context differences .
Chilies are dried before grinding . There are several ways to dry them : Leave them in an exposed part of the fridge for several weeks . There should be a lot of open air around it , to allow moisture to escape . String them up outside . To do this , poke holes and run strings through them and tie the strings up so they 're spread out . For best results , you should do this during hot , dry weather , and ensure they get plenty of sunlight . Expect it to take several weeks . Oven-dry them at low temperatures . You want temperatures to be under 150 ° F/65 ° C so as not to cook them , and it will take several hours to a day or two . Reduce the temperature if you see the peppers darkening or turning black . Rotate the peppers regularly to allow even drying , and leave the oven door slightly open to allow moisture to escape . If you wish to have a little more roasted flavor , increase the temperature . Use a freeze-drying machine or dehydrator . Discard any peppers with rotten spots , both before and after drying . Before grinding , remove stems and seeds . Grinding : I 've successfully used a blade-type coffee grinder to grind dried peppers into flakes . A blender or food processor should also work , assuming you are handling larger quantities . I must confess puzzlement about what exactly a " mixer-grinder " is , even after consulting the link . I believe the appliance may not have an exact equivalent in Europe or the United States . However , if it is suitable for blending or grinding it should work fine for dried peppers . I should add that you ought to wear gloves when handling the peppers , and beware of the fumes from the dehydrator or oven , as they may be very pungent . In extreme causes , protective goggles may be a good idea .
The notion that salt or spices specifically do n't scale linearly sounds like nonsense to me . In any recipe involving salt and water , the salt is dissolved , so all that matters is the concentration , and that concentration is going to be the same with linear scaling . Scaling in general is problematic when scaling more than 2x or 4x . When you take into account that : Recipes targeted at home cooks are imprecise to begin with and often use volumetric measurements that are sensitive to heat , humidity , and other environmental conditions , so the imprecision is magnified at larger scale ; Larger portions of food may get cooked less evenly and/or at less consistent temperatures due to the volume/surface area ratio ; that part is correct , but it has nothing to do with salt , it has to do with your equipment . On the stovetop , most of the heat is coming from the bottom of the pan unless you use induction , and even in an oven you 've got one or two heat sources radiating heat in a specific pattern . Cooking times are also going to vary due to changes in things like rates of evaporation . The total amount of heat you 're able to deliver at any given time generally does not increase as quickly as the amount of heat you need to deliver , so very often you need to increase cooking times . I 'm sure you probably already know all this , but the reason I 'm pointing it all out is that I 'm pretty sure that this odd-sounding assertion about non-linear salt/spice scaling is due to some mutation or misunderstanding of general scaling issues . Probably , salt and spices are typically present in very small quantities in most recipes , and those quantities are already wild guesses much of the time , so the effect of compounding all this wild inaccuracy , especially with volumetric measurements , is actually pretty noticeable at large scale . Scaling sucks with these ingredients because the initial quantities and scaling method are both nonsense . Assuming you have a precise recipe that gives weight measurements , and you scale by weight , then you 're not going to have any problems as long as you either cook it in batches or adjust your cooking time/temp accordingly . I suppose I could be wrong , but I spent 20 minutes digging for some evidence to contradict my claims above and came up dry ; you 'd think that somebody would have presented some evidence if the claim were true .
In the type of recipe you reference , all of which are quick breads , the result is supposed to be tender , not chewy . Wheat flour has proteins in it , which if agitated in the presence of water , will combine to form a new protein , gluten , which is very chewy . Sometimes , this is desirable as in yeast raised bread , where the gluten forms the structure of the bread , and gives it its bite and chewiness . In fact , this is why ( most ) yeast raised breads are kneaded . Gluten development is not desirable in tender quick breads , like cornbread or banana bread . Biscuits are a type of quick bread where the lumps of butter will promote flakiness , but you still want a tender crumb . The flour and the liquids are combined as quickly as possible , with the least reasonably possible agitation , to minimize the development of gluten , and thus maximize tenderness . The idea of leaving some lumps is to help prevent over mixing , and thus toughening the product . Even if there are some small lumps of unmixed flour , the liquid from the batter will penetrate them in a few minutes during baking , and they will not be a factor in the final product .
I always used to reach in and grab stuff , but I would always put a piece of tape over the switch first .
There are lots of different techniques for preparing rice , and all are equally valid . They do lead to different results , but it is up to you do decide which one you prefer . There is not one " right " way we can recommend over the other . Yes , there is a noticeable difference . Rice pre-fried in fat has a different texture . It is less fluffy , and can be even slightly slimy if cooked in too much water . It does not dry out as quickly as rice cooked in watery liquid only . It also has a slightly different taste , especially if you use a non-neutral oil . But this difference in aroma may be too subtle to notice if your paella is heavily seasoned , it is most pronounced when the rice is cooked on its own and served as a side .
Another route for day to day cleaning is vinegar . I use a spray bottle with half white vinegar and half water at night on my counter tops before bed . ( Use soap after cooking or prepping . ) The vinegar does a good job cleaning bacteria , mold , and germs . Once you get accustomed to the smell of vinegar , you will realize it deodorizes after the vinegar smell goes away . A nice touch is rubbing a lemon on the counter beforehand , but it really does n't do much other than smell nice and break down oil .
You will get the roasty , caramelized flavors ; how much influence they will have on the overall flavor of your stew will depend on several factors including : How deeply you roast the them How much you add , proportionately , into the stew How strongly flavored the other items in the stew are Roasting the vegetables will also cook them , so you will want to add them to the stew much later , so they do n't overcook . If you google <URL> , you will find several recipes for inspiration . As to whether this is a superior , or heartier flavor , that would be a matter of opinion . You do n't mention roasting celery or onions ( partners with carrots in the classic mire poix ) , but these are also excellent candidates for roasting , as are all types of root vegetable .
As I understand it , when you combine high heat and vegetable oil you get a fairly stable polymer ( much like a plastic or resin ) . The polymer bonds with the surface ( which is porous ) , and results in robust surface . This is what we use to season cast iron cookware , but it 's less desirable on stainless and other lighter colour hardware . You can prevent the coating from forming by never allowing he oil to maintain a high temperature for long periods by itself . Keeping food in contact with the pan will both help keep the temperature down , and reduce the chance of the oil bonding with the steel . Cleaning the oil off once it 's formed is usually pretty simple : add water ( or soda water ) and heat for 10-15 minutes . Often the oil will wipe out ( or need mild scrubbing with an appropriate scrubbing pad ) . You should not have to use steel wool ( or a caustic cleaner ) , both of which can damage the smooth surface of many pans .
If it 's " green tea powder " it 's probably <URL> . Matcha is finely ground powder of specially grown and processed green tea . It 's special in two aspects of farming and processing : The green tea plants for matcha are shade-grown for about three weeks before harvest , and the stems and veins are removed in processing . The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation , serving , and drinking of matcha . In modern times , matcha has also come to be used to flavour and dye foods such as mochi and soba noodles , green tea ice cream and a variety of wagashi ( Japanese confectionery ) . <URL> The drink you had in Thailand is probably an iced matcha shake of some sort , made with condensed milk . In Japan , the drink is served by itself as part of tea ceremonies and is opaque even without milk added to it . There 's a guide to how tea ceremonies work and the process of making tea <URL> , if you 're interested .
Yes , it is perfectly safe uncooked , although it may be unpalatable without being sweetened . For example , you can make your own chocolate milk mix with cocoa powder and powdered sugar . Simply mix it into milk , without cooking , and enjoy . It is also dusted uncooked as a garnish or accent on some pastries or cakes .
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
If your beef shank is chewy , it 's undercooked . Period . Whatever the amount of time is , even if it seems like a lot to you , it 's not enough . Overcooking will cause meat cuts with a lot of connective tissue ( like shank ) to dry , and even fall apart because it is too tender . But it will not still be chewy .
end question
start question
What to do when too much liquid added to flour mixture ?
If everything is already combined , you ca n't really boil off the liquid without also cooking the flour , killing the yeast , and ruining your dough . If you do n't want the large amount of dough you would have from just adding flour to what you have , your best bet is to just throw away a portion of what you 've made , add flour to the remainder , and proceed . In the future , try adding 75 % of the water , then adding the rest as needed . Sometimes this is the only way to account for additional moisture your flour may have absorbed in humid environments . In the case of pizza dough though , if you have too much , if you portion it , lightly oil the portions , and freeze them individually , they should keep fairly well .
Flour labeled as Cake flour usually is weak flour : low value , or less formally " low protein " or " fewer gluten " . This is somehow weird , as some cakes will require weak flour , whether others nedd strong flour ( for yeasted dough cakes , if they add lots of fat/oil to the dough , if they add lots of sugar , pieces of fruits/nuts , etc ) . I specifically do n't know whether Maida is strong or weak flour , despite <URL> . Wheat plants has been selected for several milleniums to get more productive varieties , and , yes , grains that give stronger flour . Substitutes as weak flour Trying to get flour from a more " primitive " variety of wheat , such as <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . These are expensive where I live , and usually sold as bio , but maybe spelt is easily found in India . As they have not been so " genetically selected " , they still have less gluten than today 's " normal " flour . They also tend to have more and better taste than " normal " flour . Another flour with low gluten content is rye . It has a different taste than wheat , but I thing it fits really well with cakes . This grain grows better in colder climates , so I 'm not very sure how hard will it be to get it where you live . Other flours , as rice or corn / maize have no gluten . It means gas bubbles wo n't be trapped in , and will result in a much too dense crumb . You might search some gluten-free bread tricks to solve this . Substitutes as strong flour Any bread flour will probably work . Maybe it wo n't rise as much and you 'll get a crumb with a denser consistency , more similar to a " chewing gum " than a " soft cake " . But if you are ok with this , you can go on . Note ( Thank to @Anisha for the suggestion ) : Notice that different flours have different absorption , so some readjustment on hydration should probably be made to the original recipe .
Just slice it into thin discs ( a mandoline is quick ) and the kids use it as chips 'n' dip . Try some natural or Greek style yoghurt and whole seed mustard as a dip . Very crunchy and tasty If the skin is dry or blotchy I quickly run the potato peeler over it first Otherwise , just grating it into soups or stews is a nice vegetable filler EDIT Doh , forgot the best thing to use it for Coleslaw , it replaces cabbage perfectly . Or you can mix cabbage and broccoli . Just coarse grate it with some carrot , onion . Blend it up with a little mayo and yoghurt , or lemon juice and olive oil . Add some ground fennel and cumin seeds or some chopped mint for extra zing
I usually assume that if the bottle does n't specify ( and you bought it off a shelf , not out of a refrigerated area ) , then it 's safe to store in the cupboard . You can also ask at the store if you want to be sure , though I suspect unless it 's a small , specialty store with knowledgeable personnel , they will err on the side of caution and just tell you to refrigerate it . For your specific examples : Soy sauce is definitely fine to store in the cupboard , though some brands will recommend refrigeration for " best quality " . Fish sauce I 'd usually store in the fridge once opened .
It 's really no different from cooking something on a stove : if you have no liquid at all , things are probably going to start getting too hot , sticking on the bottom , and maybe burning . As long as there 's some liquid , you 'll be fine . The important thing is to add enough ; if you keep having to open it to add more , it wo n't stay hot . This is basically the minimum level : enough that it wo n't boil dry in an hour or so . If you 're cooking something really simple like a piece of meat , using too much water just provides more water for the flavor to get diluted into . This is precisely what the first page you linked to says : if it 's not full enough , it might all boil off . The writer is just way off about quantities . I suspect his cooker 's lid does n't fit well , or he 's unnecessarily cooking on high . I do n't think my slow cooker would boil dry from half full in 8 hours on low , and there 's no reason to put it on high if I 'm cooking that long . The recipe at the second link is n't exactly empty - a can of cranberry sauce will provide a good amount of liquid . It also might not be a great recipe . On that note , I might suggest you look for more authoritative recipes . Perhaps check out a slow cooker cookbook from your library ( these tend to be pretty common ) to get an idea of the kinds of things you can do . ( Of course , if all you want is a plain piece of meat , I guess you do n't need much . )
If you 're boiling something rapidly , and it 's not in a terribly deep , narrow pot , then essentially all of the heat output of the burner is going into turning water into steam . The latent heat of vaporization of water is 2260 kJ/kg , so if you want to reduce something by a volume V , and your stove has power P , the time required is : If V happens to be in mL , and P is in W ( J/s ) : This would be modified slightly if you 're using a really tall , skinny pot , since the convection within the pot , from the bottom to the top of the liquid , would be less efficient , with more heat transferred to the sides of the pot and out into the air , but I doubt you 're actually going to try to reduce something like that . The P here is the effective power ; for example , a gas burner wastes a lot of heat out the sides , so the advertised power will be higher . See <URL> for approximate efficiencies . If you do n't know the power of your stove , in all honesty , the easiest way to measure it would probably be to just see how long it takes to boil away a given volume of water , and work backwards . To get an accurate result , you should not boil a pot dry - once the water is a thin enough layer , the heat transfer might start working differently , with the pot itself heating up more , and water splattering . So you could , for example , put in a liter of water , boil away at the stove setting you intend to measure until it 's substantially reduced in volume , record the time , then pour it out to measure how much you boiled away . At this point , knowing the power output might be overkill , though ; you can really just measure the time per volume reduction , and use that , unless you care about the power for other reasons . Trying to deduce the power of the stove from , say , the temperature of an empty pot or of the burner without a pot on it ( assuming it 's electric ) would be difficult ; you 'd have to deal with the heat transfer between metal and air , and the convection in the air . Dependence on ingredients should n't be significant - you 're still just boiling water , unless there 's a substantial amount of alcohol , in which case the latent heat of vaporization will be different . Pure alcohol has a latent heat of vaporization of 841 kJ/kg ; I have n't found a good table for mixtures . For solutions , as I noted in the comments , the latent heat of vaporization should be that of water , plus/minus the heat of solution of the solutes ( I forget which direction that 's measured in ) . The most common solutes are probably salt and sugar , which have heats of solution of 70 and 16 J/g , respectively . ( I found <URL> , and converted . ) The next most common thing I could think of that might be present in substantial concentrations is citric acid ; <URL> reports a heat of solution of -57 J/g . In all these cases it 's small compared to the latent heat of vaporization of water , so pretending the liquid is water should be a good approximation . It 's possible that things change if you 're reducing really far : heat of solution does depend on concentration . That is , things are different thermodynamically ( statistical mechanically ? ) in a nearly-saturated sugar syrup than in slightly sweet water .
Since it sounds like they are basically a dried out batter at this point , I would turn to implementations that rely on those kind of food-stuffs ; With some further baking and possibly additional brown sugar and butter or apple-sauce , I would use them for a crumble topping . If they are coffee and cinnamon an apple-cardamom cobbler would benefit nicely . The crumbles could be incorporated into a biscuit batter recipe In all likelihood , any kind of recipe that relies on a granola could probably be referenced for further ideas . You could also use the crumble as a stand-in for oat based no-bakes . The no-bakes might feel mealy to the tooth , so not entirely eliminating the oat might work best . If you wanted to repurpose , you might try thinking of it as a material to be suspended . With an ingredient like well-blended coconut butter ( not to be confused with coconut oil or milk or cream ) you could create a base with which to make a kind of post-raw bar cookie ( basically press and chill the coconut butter in a pan on top of wax/parchment paper , pulse the muffin bits with some dates or brown rice syrup , and once the butter sets press the bits/dates mixture into the top and drizzle with some ganache or whatever ) .
00 is extra-fine flour , the most refined grade . <URL> a useful page for more about the old flour grading system . Other than pasta I use it for thickening sauces , and I sometimes make pizza dough with it , although I ca n't tell the difference between using 00 and good quality bread flour . I 'd use 00 for Gnocci certainly as the chefs do , but most home cooks just use plain flour and seem to get good results . Basically , if you have it or can get it use it , if not plain flour is fine .
Not in my experience . The water will spread out through the pan and meat will still cook evenly , just slower . You should n't have this problem with most meats , but it can be a problem with chicken breasts in particular , and if you also have vegetables in the pan they can release a fair amount of water . The basic problem with too much water releasing from meat ( or anything else ) when frying is that it reduces the temperature of the oil down to the boiling point of water . That kills the advantage oil has over water , that it 's boiling point is much higher . ( Higher in fact than the temperatures typically used in cooking . The bubbling you see when frying are caused by the vaporization of water . ) That 's what oil makes more efficient at heat transfer , it 's temperature is higher . This also means that it still should cook evenly , just slower , because the oil will be at the same temperature as the water . You 're basically just simmering the meat instead of frying it . When this happens the simple solution is to temporarily turn up the heat . It takes a lot more energy to convert water into steam than it does to keep oil alone at a desired cooking temperature . You wo n't have to worry about burning anything , because the water in the pan will automatically regulate the temperature , keeping it at or below 100 C ( 212 F ) . Once enough of the water has been evaporated you 'll start to hear normal frying sounds again and you can turn back the heat to normal .
There is a lot of water in the milk . The high heat turns the water into steam . The egg and flour contains proteins and gluten that forms a " net " . The steam ca n't escape without pushing the net upwards . This makes the dough rise . It helps that the container is a narrow cylinder .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
Rendered beef fat can be used in a lot of ways . You can use it in place of oil in a lot of recipes , but finding out which ones you like will take some experimenting . Around our house , I use rendered fat from beef or bacon in place of oil when sautéing , for example with onions and peppers , garlic or mushrooms . I 've also used it to add some kick to gravies . You could use it to pop popcorn , which I 've heard is delicious but unfortunately have never tried . I 've had <URL> made with beef fat , and they were delicious . Mashed potatoes as well . As far as fat ratio goes , it 's better than butter , but not as good as other fats . Beef fat has a high smoke point and is suitable for frying . The table below is based off of 1 tablespoon . Ratio means saturated to unsaturated . Smoke point can vary depending on a lot of factors ( olive oil <URL> from 300 when unrefined , to <URL> depending on quality ) but the table below should be a good guide . For the oils , I took the refined numbers . sat mono poly ratio smoke Canola Oil 0.9 8.2 4.1 1:12 470 & deg ; F Olive Oil 1.8 10.0 1.2 2:11 450 & deg ; F Chicken Fat 3.8 5.7 2.6 1:2 375 & deg ; F Duck Fat 4.3 6.3 1.7 1:2 375 & deg ; F Lard ( pork fat ) 5.0 5.8 1.4 5:7 365 & deg ; F Beef Tallow 6.4 5.4 0.5 1:1 400 & deg ; F Butter 7.2 3.3 0.5 7:4 350 & deg ; F ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) A lot of people mix it into their dog 's food , or use it to feed birds . Seach for <URL> if you want to find recipes that specifically use it .
There is a difference beyond just the price . All-Purpose flours are not the same : Southerners tend to make more quick breads , pies , cakes , etc. where tenderness is the primary quality factor . Southern brands of all-purpose flour such as White Lily , Martha White , Red Band , Adluh and others are typically milled from wheat that naturally has a lower gluten percentage . They also blend it to achieve an overall lower percentage . In addition , southern all-purpose flour is usually bleached , often with chlorine gas which weakens the gluten structure of the gluten in it and creates an acidic nature in the dough . Gluten does n't develop as easily in an acidic environment . On average , people living in the northeast/midwest tend to bake a lot more yeast-based products ( dinner rolls , cinnamon rolls , pumpernickel bread , rye , wheat , white , french bread , etc. ) which benefit from a higher gluten percentage . Northern/Midwest brands such as King Arthur , Hecker 's etc. tend to use wheat that has a higher gluten content for the milling of their flour and they typically leave it unbleached which allows the gluten to better develop during mixing/kneading . National brands such as Gold Medal and Pillsbury are being distributed across the country so they blend their flour to fall within the mid-range of gluten content . As for store brands , those that are national ( such as Kroger/safeway ) are probably being milled by the national flour mills and should probably perform about the same . If it 's a regional store brand ( such as Piggly Wiggly here in the south or Wegman 's in the Northeast ) I 'd be willing to bet that it probably falls within the scope of those regional types of milling practices . For a chart showing the range of gluten content for various types of flour from cake flour to bread flour ( including the all-purpose brands mentioned above ) see <URL> .
I presume you 're talking about active dried yeast . In that case , the granules of packaged yeast have some nutritive content to them , so what you observe when you add warm water is a weak form of priming . Priming is the addition of both warm water and a food source , typically sugar or flour , to dried yeast with the goal of ' waking-up ' the yeast from their dormant , packaged state . The warm water dissolves some of the food in the granules and warms the yeast up to a temperature which is favourable to fermentation .
Both messes up the ratio , as you said , so you should n't use anything during kneading . You only need to use a little bit of something during shaping . With some pastries , the shaping is extensive and you get lots of the smoother worked into the dough ; this is expected and desired ( e.g. in strudel sheets ) . Properly kneaded bread dough does not stick to anything , even if it started out very wet . So , if it sticks at the beginning , just continue kneading until it stops ( I knead it between my hands then , not on a surface ) . When it is ready , it will not only stop sticking to your hands , but also pull the smear of the hand surfaces into itself , coming clean off them so you can work with it . ( You will still have to clean your hands afterwards from gunk between the fingers and on the back of your hands ) . When your dough is kneaded through , you want to form a good surface for the rising period . You can use flour , oil or water ; you 'll use so little that it does n't really matter much . Just spread a thin film on your surface , shape the boule and put it into the rising bowl . For the final rise , you want it to keep its shape when it 's put into the oven . So , when you are giving it its final shape , you can use either flour or a starch to prevent it from sticking to whatever it is rising on . I knew somebody who swore by rice flour as producing the least stickiness , but use plain wheat flour myself . You can even lay it on a bed of flour ; it is not getting pressed into it , so it wo n't absorb it and get hard . But you will have a layer of either raw or burned flour on the prepared bread . An exception would be very oil-rich breads ( at least half as much butter as flour ) . They do better when the final shaping is done in oil too . For pastries and cookies , it depends on the type of dough . If it is supposed to be a hard dough , use flour . The strudel mentioned above is made in flour . If it is supposed to be a soft or tender dough , you can try shaping without any smoothening ( for example many cookies will flow into a smooth shape during baking even if put onto the sheet as an unsightly pinched ball ) . Ugly sticky pastry doughs like pie crust can be rolled into submission if you roll them between two smooth silicone mats , but you ca n't get them very thin that way . If you need them at less than 4 mm , use flour , best in combination with the silicone . Plastic wraps also works , but you might have to use two pieces per surface when the crust gets wide . If you have a dough which really feels half-liquid in your hands , shape with flour . Corriher 's very light southern biscuits from Cookwise are a good example for such a dough .
There is no official standard . The USDA uses 125g/cup , but labels on packages claim different weights for one cup : Gold Medal brand : 130g King Arthur brand : 113g <URL> : 137g superpacked : 165g I always convert my recipes to weights using 140g/cup .
Ganache is made from chocolate and heavy whipping cream . You could add hot cream to the chocolate until you get the consistency you are looking for .
Ideally , the water level should be just as , or a bit above , the egg level . So , you fill the ramekin to maybe 1.5 cm below the rim , place it in the dish , and fill the dish until it is 1 cm below the ramekin rim . You can deviate a bit , if you must - if you had a bit too much custard and filled the ramekins more , you should n't get the water too high , because you do n't want to get water splashed onto the custard if it should start boiling ( actually , you want to avoid a roiling boil in your bain marie , but it can happen ) . Even if the egg is slightly higher than the water , it will still be OK . If you have the water level too low , you risk to overheat the upper portions of your custards . This assumes the souffle-cup-like ramekins usually sold to home bakers . If you have very flat ones , like crema catalana dishes , it gets more complicated . You have to have the water close to the rim , and bake at lower settings . It can help to put them high in the bain marie , e.g. on a cake cooling rack , so that they are cooled from below rather than the sides .
Caffeine is bitter , tea is n't too bitter because as you mentioned it 's only got 40mg of caffeine . If you then triple the amount in there it 's going to taste that way . Try adding 3 tea bags to your cup and I 'm certain it 'll taste just as bitter . Energy drinks have copious amounts of sweeteners added hence why they do n't taste like caffeine . If you are hell bent on more caffeine without the associated bitterness but not adding sugar maybe a sweetener like stevia would be the way forward ...
If you 're not talking about very much water getting into the bowl , then these techniques should help . Remove the bowl of chocolate from the heat source . For every ounce of chocolate , add one tablespoon of one of these : warm water , melted butter , vegetable oil , hot milk/cream . Stir or whisk until smooth . Add a bit more liquid if needed . Use the repaired chocolate for sauce , frosting , or a batter ( like for your brownies ! ) . It wo n't work well for coating candy . You may also want to check out <URL> on how to melt chocolate without getting it wet .
end question
start question
Is aluminum foil porous ?
There are two questions here : Is aluminum foil porous ( particularly the types of foil sold for household cooking ) ? Is foil 's porosity responsible for the liquid that sometimes appears on the other side in cooking/baking applications ? I 'd say the brief answers to these questions are ( 1 ) sometimes a bit , especially when not using " heavy duty " foil , and ( 2 ) perhaps responsible for a small part of the effect in some situations , though how much likely depends on the foil type/quality and how it is used . More details below . First , aluminum foil can be porous when it is sufficiently thin . This is usually due to <URL> . According to <URL> : Aluminum foil is essentially impermeable to gases and water vapor when it is thicker than 15 µm , but it is permeable at lower thicknesses due to the presence of minute pinholes . For example 12 µm thick foil has a WVTR [ water vapor transmission rate ] of ≤ 0.01 g m-2 day -1 , and 8-9 µm thick generally of 0.07-0 .1 g m-2 day -1 ( Lamberti and Escher , 2007 ) . These values are still far below those of most plastic films used for food packaging ... Other sources give slightly different numbers . <URL> lists : 0.001 in . ( 25.4 µm ) and thicker is impermeable ; 0.00035 in . ( 8.9 µm ) has a WVTR of 0.02 g/100in .2 ( 0.065 m2 ) ; 24 h at 100 ° F ( 37.8 ° C ) How thick is common household aluminum foil ? According to <URL> : " Standard Duty " usually is between 0.0004 " and 0.0007 " thick . Most foil labeled " Heavy Duty " is between .0008 " and .001 " thick . Most foil labeled " Extra Heavy Duty " is between .0011 " thick and .0016 " thick . The first source above lists the minimum thickness for impermeability to be about 0.0006 " ( 15 µm , though this may only be for gases , not liquids ) , while the second source says 0.001 " . Other sources seem to indicate liquid impermeability requires a minimum thickness of around 0.001 " . Regardless , it seems likely the " standard duty " foil has some permeability in most cases . On the other hand , " heavy duty " foil is likely completely impermeable ( or very nearly so ) . But how much is this permeability ? At room temperature , it would only allow something like a hundredth of a gram through per day in a pan , probably less . At baking temperatures , permeability would increase , but you still would likely only see a fraction of a gram of liquid getting through during a typical baking period . And for heavy duty foil , the amount should be zero or negligible ... at least theoretically . To move on to the second question , so where does this liquid come from ? I myself have seen such liquid even with a double layer of foil or with heavy duty foil . Other answers have suggested one likely culprit , which is condensation . Ovens often tend to be humid places when uncovered foods are cooking , and food that is in contact with the bottom surface of a pan ( and the foil ) is generally still cooler than the oven ( often the coolest part of the food is on the bottom ) , which means that humidity will condense on the surface of the pan/foil . It 's usually a lot faster for molecules ( even larger ones , which often " piggyback " on evaporating water ) to move this way in a hot oven than through microscopic pores in the foil . The other likely issue is imperfections created during the handling of the foil . A perfectly smooth layer of foil removed carefully from the roll may theoretically be impermeable , but bending , crumpling , and otherwise shaping the foil may expand or fracture some tiny pinholes ( or other thin sections ) . All it takes is a few tiny holes ( which may not even be visible ) to significantly increase the permeability . Actual leaking may be due to poor manufacture in modern foils or to the severe crumpling done in <URL> . ( EDIT : See discussion in <URL> , which responded to that link with several other experiments . The conclusion was that is was likely design that caused the leak , and some brands of heavy duty foil do seem impermeable to water . ) In any case , it 's clear that aluminum foil -- when used practically in home culinary applications -- can sometimes allow some liquid to flow through at a greater rate than the theoretical porosity would suggest .
Raspberries are n't just seeds and juice , though they 're certainly not as fleshy as some fruits . The difference between apple puree ( apple sauce ) and apple juice is much more obvious . In any case , you should be fine forcing them through a sieve as you suggest .
I do n't know much of the science behind the super-soft bread on supermarket shelves , but I can give some insight into the history that led to it becoming so ubiquitous in the US . The idea that whiter breads are classier than darker breads goes all the way back to the 5th century BC . The belief that white bread was superior to dark bread , a common theme in many cultures over the ages , was already taking hold in Greece by the 5th century BC . Darker , denser breads made from barley or rye were the breads of the poor . White breads were believed to be pure , more refined , more cultured . They cost more too , since growing wheat was more labor-intensive than other grains . And on top of that , removing the bran and the germ to make wheat flour white instead of brown increased the work and the cost still further . Interestingly , up until the 17th century there were even separate baker 's guilds for bakers of white breads and brown breads . This prejudice against darker breads generally continued all the way until the 1960 's , when growing health consciousness finally seemed to turn the tide . From <URL> The desire for soft came a bit later ( same source ) : I 've often wondered why bread baking in this country-descended as it is from the great European traditions-turned so ... let 's say ... soft . The decline of good bread baking may have had its roots in the 18th century . The introduction of pan baking made bread softer and puffier . In the 19th century a distaste for " sourness " ( ironically the same " sourness " that makes San Francisco sourdough and other sourdoughs so great ) led to the introduction of baking soda to bread , which made it puffier still . In the 1870 's industrial milling techniques were introduced . Flour became whiter and whiter , and " deader " - bakers began adding sugar to get yeasts to react as they had in the past , and bread got puffier still . Bread continued to get sweeter and puffier , until finally in the 1920 's , we reached the pinnacle of puffiness-Wonder Bread . It 's with the birth of Wonder Bread things really take a turn for the insiped . Did you know you can squeeze an entire loaf into a ball the size of a tennis ball ? I once know a guy who never missed an opportunity to show off that little stupid-human-trick ... but I digress ... Alexander Taggart , the founder of Wonder Bread , was a marketing genius . In the 1890s he sold the first company that he had built to The United States Baking Company and he accepted stock in The United States Baking Company as a part of the purchase price . The United States Baking Company subsequently became a part of the National Biscuit Company . You might know that company by another name , Nabisco . So at this point he owned a chunk of Nabisco , but he sold that to start another baking company , the Taggart Baking Company , out of Indianapolis , Indiana . At first he zeroed in on the large number of German immigrants in the area , and prior to WWI he advertised heavily in German language newspapers using a Puritan logo : From <URL> This was a good time to own a baking company in the USA . Between the start of the century and the end of WWI , the market was burgeoning . between 1899 and 1919 the value of bread and bakery products produced in Indiana grew 620 % . Americans were rapidly growing richer , and they could afford to replace labor-intensive homemade goods with manufactured alternatives . - <URL> But events of the era were causing a shift in the attitudes of American consumers . The war and its aftermath caused a tremendous amount of discrimination against German immigrants , and in Indiana , Germans were plentiful enough that there was a significant backlash to those attitudes . To make matters worse , Protestants in Indiana were banding together against Catholics , and the KKK was getting hugely powerful in state politics ( an interesting bit of history in its own right <URL> ) . Our marketing genius knew just how to capitalize on the social unrest . In 1921 the Taggart Company had a new wrapping technique that could keep bread fresh for several days , and set about to rebrand the product.The new Taggart bread would n't carry religious or ethnic connotations that could hinder it 's sales , or even falsely identify itself with the work of Puritan mothers -- it was going to be better . It was going to be from the mechanized world of the future , a utopian world with factories suspended from the clouds by the thread of their smoke ; bridges with the leap of gymnasts ... and the gliding flight of aeroplanes whose propellers sound like the flapping of a flag and the applause of enthusiastic crowds -- a vision outlined in Filippo Marinetti 's Futurist Manifesto , published in 1909 . The new Wonder Bread did n't suggest hearth and home . On the contrary , the unnaturally vibrant colors of the logo and visual purity of this new , virgin white , 1.5 pound loaf perfectly evoked the otherworldliness of the enormous manufacturing system that was seen as America 's future . - <URL> It was the righ
Freezer burn is just the food being dehydrated . Most meat will change color , and it becomes very obvious if you defrost it . It 's not unsafe : just yucky .
If you have 18 inch wide heavy duty foil , pull a square that is 18X18 , place your pan in the center of the foil and lift the edges of the foil up around the outside of the pan , effectively making a pan within a pan ( spring form inside the aluminum foil pan . If you only have 12 inch foil , pull two pieces of foil about 18 inches long and put them on top of each other . Along one if the long edges , fold both pieces over about 1/2 inch a few times , crimping each time . Open up the sheets which will create one large piece with a seam down the middle . Put the spring form pan in the middle like above . If your seam is tight it should work as well as the single piece of 18 inch foil .
A kitchen rag is typically a white , rectangular towel that has various duties in a professional kitchen . Some of the uses include : wiping-down counter tops , sopping-up spills , securing cutting boards ( use DAMP rags ) , and grabbing hot pans ( use DRY rags ) . Generally , it is a good idea to wash your hands with soap and a sink . Often kitchen rags are used to clean debris from the hands between preparing food items . Usually the rags are dropped-off , picked-up , and washed by an outsourced service provider ( e.g. Cintas ) . The kitchen rags from these providers often have a thin , colored line that runs lengthwise down the towel . If you would like to find some for your home , try searching ' bar mops ' . They are essentially the same as kitchen rags , and are usually very cheap .
I 'd presume they just mean dish soap and not some more powerful cleanser . With regard to additives , etc. . I guess whatever you are okay with normally should be okay . Obviously you have to rinse the trays thoroughly to get the soap off . I 've had a few dehydrators and there is nothing special about the plastic trays . I doubt they are dishwasher safe but I 've never put that to the test ( I suspect it would not work that well anyway ) . The trays can be pesky to clean if you 've used a marinade . The best thing I 've found for this is a small , soft circular brush .
I would assume it 's a synonym for parchment paper . And yes , pan release is a generic term for any food release spray .
Depends on what you 're making . The principal differences are : Parchment is much more non-stick than aluminum foil . I have n't tried non-stick aluminum myself , so no idea how that compares . Parchment insulates ( against heat transfer ) more than aluminum . Parchment is somewhat porous ; it absorbs water . Looking at that recipe quickly , it 'd probably work fine . I 'd suggest substituting aluminum foil sprayed with Pam ( non-stick cooking spray ) . The bottom may brown a little quicker with the foil .
The reason to par-bake your pie shell is because it would not cook through in the same time that the filling does . So it depends on what type of filling you are going to use . For example , if you are using a traditional short crust with a cream ( custard ) filling , the custard will probably cook faster than the crust would , so you would want to par-bake the shell . On the other hand , for an apple pie with a deep layer of fruit , by the time the fruit is cooked through , the crust usually is too , so par baking is not required . In your specific example , you have not said what the filling is , that you are precooking . However , if it is essentially fully cooked , you could blind-bake your shells then just put them together to heat through for service . You would need to share more details to get more specific advise .
Like many crafts which originated in Japan , their sushi training more or less creates sushi artisans . If you just want to make a snack , you 'll have plenty of ability given a basic review of techniques . You should focus your learning on understanding food-safety , getting the rice right , and making the roll not fall apart . The rest is just levels of mastery which you need not approach in your kitchen in order to experiment and enjoy a good dish .
Yes , a well cultured sour dough is actually sour . The bacteria in the culture , lactobacilli , emit lactic acid as a waste product of their metabolism , making the dough acidic and sour .
I 'd be mighty cautious about putting aluminum pans in your oven 's self-cleaning cycle . It 's melting point is 660 degrees C , and although your oven is n't going to reach that it will probably get to the point where they will warp .
Fruit contains lots of water . When you take a piece of fruit at home and press it , you end up with sugars , vitamins and other solids dissolved in water . Let 's assume that 100 g of just-pressed juice has X g of water and 100-X g of juice . A manufacturer who sells juice can do several things . pasteurize the juice and sell it as-is . This is , and will often be labelled as " contains pulp " for citrus juices , or " naturally cloudy " for apple juice . filter the juice , then pasteurize and sell . This is again , sold as " clear " juice . Instead of just pasteurizing the juice , he may boil out Y g of water from the juice somewhere close to where the fruit is grown ( Y < X , trying to boil out enough water to get only the solids from the fruit will change the taste too much ) . This is called concentrate . It gets shipped to the packaging plant , where Y ml of pure water are added back before packaging . This is . The advantage from the manufacturer : he pays per weight for shipping between the juicing factory ( which can be somewhere in the tropics where fruit is cheap ) and the packaging plant ( which is close to where the customer lives ) . Not shipping tons of water saves lots of costs , and concentrate is less perishable than non-packaged juice . Water costs less than fruit juice . If a manufacturer adds 50 g water to 50 g fruit juice ( no matter whether from concentrate or not ) , this is a . Most customers expect a fruit juice to be sweet and slightly sour , so the manufacturer adds not just water , but water with sugar and acid in it ( mostly citric acid ) . A 96 % juice would be if the manufacturer adds only 4 g of water to 96 g of juice . as a final note , 100 % juice does not mean that the juice is only from the fruit given in the title . Apple and citrus juice is very cheap , but all other juices are expensive ( depending on area , there can be other cheap juices too ) . So , many manufacturers will sell 100 % juice which is in fact blended juice - if the package says " Sour cherry , 100 % juice " chances are that it is 25 % cherry juice and 75 % apple juice . Such combinations are given in fine print in the ingredients list , but AFAIK they are not legally required to list the exact ratio of juices used in a juice blend ( this will vary between legislations ) .
Probably generated some <URL> by reaction between the hot bleach and proteins on the stove surfaces . There 's no telling exactly which chloramines you created , as we have no idea what amines were on your stove top . However , <URL> . Open windows if possible , and leave home for several hours . Your eyes and lungs are giving you important warnings . Heed them .
I admit , I 've never attempted making stroop ( apple or otherwise ) on my own ... but some <URL> mentioned that there 's something called ' <URL> ' which sounds like it might be quite similar , based on the description of the end consistency and the amount of sugar used .
Yes , that is how browned butter or beurre de noisette ( as it is called in French ) is made . Of course , normally , you would not let it scorch to black . You want a rich hazelnut color as indicated by the French term .
Soy chicken is usually available at Asian grocery stores that cater to an East Asian demographic . It is normally sold as " soy ham " or " veggie ham " , with " chicken " as one of the varieties available . It 's usually in a sort of log shape and you just cut it to whatever size you need . It is technically already cooked , but many recipes will call for it to be coated and baked , etc. .
In between freezings it is wisest to cook it . So if you take out raw meat , and then cook it , you can freeze it again . If you take out cooked stuff , you should get it piping hot throughout , cool it quickly , and then freeze it again . It may not have a super pleasant texture - if you do n't ave an emotional attachment to it , you might want to just toss it .
In baking , the term " shortening " alone is used to mean any fat ; " <URL> " is a fat made from vegetable oil to be solid at room temperature . Most vegetable oils , such as corn oil , peanut oil , soybean oil and so on are liquid at room temperature because they are unsaturated fats : their fatty acids do not have hydrogen bound to them . Vegetable oil is converted into vegetable shortening by hydrogenating it , forcing hydrogen to bind on to the ends of the fatty acids . This is done by forcing hydrogen to bubble through the oil under pressure , heat , and in the presence of a catalyst . Compared to vegetable oil , vegetable shortening is solid at room temperature , white in color , and much less prone to rancidity as it is a saturated fat . It has essentially an unlimited shelf life . It is also very neutral in flavor , so is often used to grease pans . However , any fat will do for that purpose . In baking , it performs very well in making North American style pie crusts , where it helps promote a flaky crust , but it has little flavor . It also performs very well in deep frying . As a solid fat , like butter , it can also be creamed with sugar to help leaven baked goods , although it does not give the flavor benefits of butter . Note that margarine is essentially an emulsion of vegetable shortening ( about 80 % ) and water ( about 20 % ) plus colors and flavorings , meant to imitate butter . See also : <URL>
end question
start question
What knife should I take if traveling ?
Do n't take anything that costs much : You may have it taken away from you by border controls . In some parts of the world being able to confiscate nice things is a perk of the job . You want to enter ( or leave ) the country , you part with the knife . It could also be illegal to bring in knives over a certain size Hostels are famous for being rife with theft . Having some nice folding knife just begs for someone to take it Traveling is hard on equipment It does n't really matter anyway : who cares about the knife , anything will do . Ingredients and technique are what matters If I were you I 'd get a cheap , short cooking knife from some hardware store . Also make sure it looks like a cooking knife , you do n't want anything that could be mistaken for a weapon ! If you lose it , or it gets stolen , or broken , or you give it to someone who needs it more than you do then you just buy another cheap knife at a market somewhere . If you have an expensive piece of equipment it 's just another worry .
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
What do the dates mean ? On their website <URL> , the Silk manufacturer describe the date on their package : Our refrigerated beverages and creamers will stay fresh in your refrigerator until the date stamped on the carton . Once opened , they need to be consumed within 7 to 10 days . It is not unusual for our products to remain good past the 10-day mark ; however , we only guarantee that they will be good for 7 to 10 days once opened . If the milk is labelled best by , that is an indicator of quality , not safety . However , normally milk in the US is labelled with a Sell By date , and should be good for a week or so after that date , or for about a week after being opened , whichever comes first . What are these milks ? Now consider what these two different products are . According to the <URL> column published by Cornell : As with all other animal-based foods , it 's a complete protein ; that is , it supplies people with all the necessary amino acids to form proteins . Cow 's milk contains 8 grams of protein and 12 grams of carbohydrates per 8-ounce cup . Cow 's milk is a rich source of other nutrients as well . One cup provides adults with about 30 percent of their daily calcium needs and about 50 percent of their vitamin B12 and riboflavin requirements . Often , milk is fortified with vitamin D to facilitate the absorption of calcium . Vitamin A is usually added to milk as well . Depending on the selection , cow 's milk can have a significant amount of fat . [ ... ] One cup of unfortified soymilk contains almost 7 grams of protein , 4 grams of carbohydrate , 4 1/2 grams of fat , and no cholesterol . Although soymilk supplies some B vitamins , it 's not a good source of B12 , nor does it provide a significant amount of calcium . Since many people substitute soy beverages for cow 's milk , manufacturers offer fortified versions . These varieties may include calcium and vitamins E , B12 , and D , among other nutrients . If you do choose to use soymilk instead of cow 's milk , read labels carefully to be sure you 're getting enough of these important nutrients or consider getting them from alternative food sources . Milk is a complete food for a growing animal ( or human ) . This makes it an ideal growth medium for microfauna of all types , as it contains everything they need -- including easily available sugars to jump start their growth . Soy milk on the other hand , while derived from the seed intended to grow a full plant , is has a very different profile . It is almost devoid of sugars are readily accessible fats , making it a less ideal growth medium for micro-fauna . This is not say they wo n't grow , but they may not colonize as readily and grow as quickly . Conclusion Therefore , you would expect soy milk to have a longer unopened shelf life than milk as it simply is not as ideal a growth medium . Silk implies it may last longer after opening as well , but being conservative they do not promise that . Milk will have a shorter shelf life before opening ( it is not sterile , and will go bad even in the refrigerator ) , and definitely will last less time after being exposed to the environment . They are simply two different products , with very different contents ; the fact that both are named " milk " is not an indicator . See also : <URL>
Brief answer : no , you should n't be worried . Slightly longer answer : you only should be worried if your stock/broth displays characteristics of unskimmed stock ( i.e. , cloudiness , particles , or odd color ) and that bothers you in your particular application for the stock/broth . Long answer : There are lots of things that can reduce the amount of apparent foam , including : Roasting , poaching , or otherwise cooking meats or bones before making broth/stock Boiling the liquid ( which will sometimes break up the foam before it becomes noticeable enough to skim ) Putting lots of floating items into the stock at the outset , especially vegetables that may absorb or break up the foam on the surface Starting with warmer water and/or heating the stock quickly initially Different types of bones or cuts of meat will produce varying amounts of foam With the exception of pre-cooking the meat , most of these wo n't actually result in less foam/scum in the final product . They just will cause the foam to break up more and be dissolved into the stock/broth so it is n't as noticeable during the initial cooking and ca n't be skimmed easily . ( Boiling the liquid will in fact increase the amount of dissolved particulates , which is why many recipes insist on keeping the heat to a very low simmer . ) If you really want to skim the maximum amount of foam , then start with cold water , heat very slowly , wait to add vegetables and other floating items until after skimming is complete , and never have the temperature above a very slow simmer . But ultimately the question is whether you should care about removing the foam . There 's an <URL> that addresses this point . Very briefly , there are three main negatives when you do n't skim : Stock will appear cloudy and/or grayish . This is n't a problem when you 're making a hearty soup in the end , but if you plan to serve the broth alone or with minimal ingredients , it may be nicer to have a clear stock with a nice color . ( This can become more noticeable if you plan to refrigerate the broth/stock before using again . The particles will precipitate out and form some grayish stuff , some of which floats near the top at the boundary of the fat layer and some of which will sink to the bottom . These larger particles may not redissolve completely when reheated and may be more noticeable in a clear broth . ) If you plan on significant reduction of the stock to make a demiglace or something , the particles will be concentrated and may mar the texture and flavor of sauces made from it . Most home cooks do n't do such extreme reductions , so this is unlikely to be relevant . Unskimmed stocks/broths tend to spoil slightly faster , and the dissolved particles will acquire an " off taste " a bit faster . This is generally not a problem if you plan to use the liquid within a day or two . ( And , generally speaking , this is best practice for food safety : broths and stocks are excellent growth media for bacteria , even in the fridge , and should optimally be used or frozen within 2-3 days . ) If you do n't care about these , there 's no reason to worry , whether your liquid foams or not . And if you do care about these , you can also clarify your stock afterward ( e.g. , with egg white ) .
Here are a few things to be wary of when buying peppers : Wrinkled skin -- it 's a sign that they 're drying out . It should be firm and smooth . Soft areas -- it 's a sign that it 's starting to rot in areas . It should be firm all over . Fuzz near the stem or blossom end -- you ca n't always see outward signs of the fuzzy mold , but if you do , it 'll be right around where the stem attaches , or in the crevice on the other side . Cracks -- it 's a sign that someone 's dropped it , and opens up the possibility of rotting faster Spots -- besides the soft areas , you can get small dots in an area ... it 's a sign of disease . ( I 'm not sure which ; I typically get this when growing my own , do n't see it in the store ) . Holes -- a sign that there 's an insect that 's eaten its way inside . ( again , I see this more on home grown ones ) Things that are n't always a problem : Discoloration : if it 's a green pepper , it might start turning red , yellow or orange . Red peppers might have an area that looks black or brown . So long as that area is n't soft , and the color changes look blended in ( not where it 's an obvious line between colors ) , it 's fine . Weight : you typically want heavier specimens , but some varieties are thinner skinned , and wo n't be as heavy . If you find one that seems abnormally light , compare it to similar sized ones in the display . If they 're all the same , and do n't have wrinkled skin , they 're probably okay . White lines : you typically see this more on hot peppers , but it can happen on bell peppers , too . They 'll be roughly parallel to each other , along the line from stem to blossom . It 's a sign that they got a sudden burst of water while growing , which caused the skin to crack ( but then heal ) . Folds : some varieties of peppers are more balloon-like , while others may have a few folds ; so long as it 's still smooth skin ( not wrinkled ) , relatively heavy for its size , and you do n't see fuzz in the folds , it 's not an issue .
The resting period is not generally done by an absolute temperature -- you would have measured for ( near ) your target temperature before before taking the piece out of the oven or off the griddle or whatever . Traditionally , it should be proportional to the size of the cut or roast . 5-10 minutes is good for a steak or individual chicken pieces , depending on their thickness Medium size roasts and smaller poultry , say 10-15 minutes Large roasts and large poultry ( like a turkey ) , up to 30 minutes . If you do want to measure by temperature for more precise results , Kenji Alt of <URL> recommends based on practical experimentation , for steaks : Ideally , no matter how well-done you 've cooked your meat , you want to allow it to cool down until the very center has reached 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) . At this stage , the muscle fibers have relaxed enough that you should have no problem with losing juices . He also reviews some of the science , and various explanations for why the resting works . Cook 's Illustrated 's <URL> performed an experiment with several roasted pork loins , cutting them with no resting , or resting of 10 , 20 , 30 , and 40 minutes . They found that even a 10 minute rest cut down on juices expressed by 60 % compared to the unrested roast . They found far less difference in the roasts that were rested for longer periods , although there was continued improvement in the juice retention . They summarize ( original emphasis ) : So what to do ? Curb your enthusiasm and let your meat rest . But not for too long . The most dramatic decrease in moisture loss for these pork loins took place during the first 10 minutes of rest . Additional time helps -- but not if that means your dinner will be cold . If you 're cooking a big roast , you can wait longer -- about 30 minutes . Thin steaks should only wait 5 to 10 minutes before you dig in . This shows that the traditional advise on resting times is actually fairly effective . Note : Thanks to <URL> for sharing this reference .
Look at : <URL> Conversion Measurements for Using Different Yeasts in Recipes :
Once my starter was established ( started with organic whole wheat flour ) I 've been feeding it with unbleached AP flour ( King Arthur ) and that 's worked fine . I do this simply because it 's the flour I buy in large quantities to stock my pantry , and so it 's generally the cheapest flour I have on hand . If you want to " switch over " to a different flour you can always scoop out a bit of starter a couple days before you bake , and feed it with the different flour . Start with a small amount so you do n't have to throw any away ; just double the volume with each feeding . I do n't usually bother , though .
I 'd use the recipe they have on their site for <URL> as a guideline , since it 's very similar in terms of size and shape to a beef roast ( just not as heavy ) . They estimate 10 minutes per pound , which is more or less consistent with the per-side estimate of most broiler recipes ( which is very similar to infrared cooking ) . So start with an estimate of 40-50 minutes but do what they recommend and monitor the temperature very carefully . I have to point out that 4-5 pounds is very heavy/large for high-heat cooking methods like broiling or grilling ( or infrared ) ; it 's not the same as infrared " frying " a turkey or a leg of lamb which has a very high surface area/weight ratio . Steaks would no doubt come out great this way but larger roasts respond better to roasting , so do n't be too surprised if your roast starts to get seriously charred on the outside before it 's sufficiently cooked on the inside . You might want to consider starting with smaller , 2-3 lb roasts , and move up the weight next time if those come out perfectly . Based on their claims , it should take roughly the same amount of time for one large item vs. two smaller items anyway .
Do you weigh your flour ? If not , that is the one change that you can make that will make this problem go away . Most of baking , particularly at the commercial level , is based on ratios by weight . While there will be some minor differences in the amount of moisture in 10 ounces of flour based on the humidity , how much flour packs into a cup can vary a lot on humidity , how much you 've fluffed or sifted the flour first , whether you scoop or sprinkle ... you get the idea . If you do n't weigh your flour when you bake , then there are lots of possible problems that could have occurred that may or may not have had anything to do with the humidity . The only other " seat of the pants " solution is to know your recipe so well that if you notice that there is a problem , you 'll catch it early . Third rise is a little late to be adding moisture , so you would have had to have noticed the problem at the beginning . Weighing your flour and water solves many baking problems and makes you look like a pro . Since you are weighing , then " knowing your recipe and adjusting on the fly " seems to be the only real answer . I checked around and even <URL> In the situation you described I might have added a bit of water at the third rise , then let it have another rise . Another thought is that , possibly , the air being so dry caused the tops of your rolls to dry out some , so they were n't flexible and you did n't get any oven spring . A spritz of warm water across the top of the rolls during final rise and , indeed , in the oven ( I do it with my sourdough loaves , for instance ) helps the bread skin to be loose enough to not inhibit the initial oven spring .
all knives should be as sharp as you can get them , really . A dull knife is much more likely to cause an accident and cut you . The duller the knife the more pressure you need to apply in order to cut your food , leading to a higher chance of slipping and hurting yourself
Take them to a professional . Nothing you can affordably buy in your home will work well . Personally , I do n't buy quality serrated knives . I buy cheap and replace when dull . Only my normal blades are quality , and these I have sharpened yearly .
Also known as a " bird 's beak " , it 's used for <URL> root vegetables ( turning them into little footballs ) and making fancy , delicate cuts when carving garnishes from fruit or vegetables . More practically , the curved blade is great for peeling round vegetables and fruit . It 's a complete pain in the butt to sharpen without a belt grinder ( or pro sharpening service with same ) , but gosh , it looks neat . Congrats on the fun present !
For this dish , you 'll probably want to use a low-end extra-light oil ( since it 's being heated quite a bit ) , and then drizzle in nicer extra virgin oil to finish the flavor after the pasta has been tossed into the cheese , oil , and spices . The rule of thumb is to have two kinds of olive oil : High-grade , richly flavored extra virgin olive oil ( for finishing ) Extra light , not extra-virgin olive oil for use as a cooking oil . You can use a cheaper oil for this -- many people choose to use a later pressing , crudo or " pure olive oil " ( in the US ) kind . The high-end oil is for adding it to sauces and drizzling on mostly-finished dishes to add that rich flavor . You 're looking for something with a lot of taste , and it 's a good idea to get small amounts of pricier oil . Getting small bottles means you 'll be using fresher , more flavorful oil because it has n't been open for long . Plus , you wo n't need much to finish dishes . Note that for this use , you want to add the oil near the end of cooking , as heat will alter and weaken the flavor . The low-end light olive oil should be of neutral or light flavor , and will be more tolerant of heating than extra-virgin . Because it has a much higher smoke point than extra-virgin grade oil , use this in recipes calling for heating up olive oil . If necessary for flavor , add some of the good stuff near the end of cooking .
00 is extra-fine flour , the most refined grade . <URL> a useful page for more about the old flour grading system . Other than pasta I use it for thickening sauces , and I sometimes make pizza dough with it , although I ca n't tell the difference between using 00 and good quality bread flour . I 'd use 00 for Gnocci certainly as the chefs do , but most home cooks just use plain flour and seem to get good results . Basically , if you have it or can get it use it , if not plain flour is fine .
You should get a carbon steel wok with two short handles ( not one long handle ) . You want the steel to build up a patina of oxidized oils , which rules out stainless steel and aluminum and non-stick . You could conceivably get a cast-iron wok , but those are really heavy . You want the two small handles so you can pick up the wok , but you do n't want long handles that will dump hot oil or food everywhere if you bump them . Unlike a saute pan , you do n't toss the pan , you toss the food . ( Tossing the pan pulls it away from the flame , which is bad when stir-frying ! ) Your best bet is to go to an Asian grocery . You 'll be assured of getting a product at a good price . Should n't cost more than $ 25 , I do n't think . Oh , one other question is what sort of stove you have . If you have an electric stove , ( a ) I 'm sorry , and ( b ) you have to get a flat-bottomed wok . If you have a gas stove , you can either get a flat-bottomed wok or a round-bottomed wok , but the latter only if you get a wok ring that holds the pan just above the flame . You want as much heat going into that pan as you possibly can manage !
Smell . Really , this is the most reliable criterion for practically any fruit . Flavor contains both taste and smell . For a strawberry , you want a fragrant smell together with enough sweetness . For both , the berry has to be ripe enough . If it was picked underripe , it wo n't smell good enough yet , and it will also be hard and sour . If it was picked long ago and is not fresh any more , it will have lost the more volatile components of its fragrance . So ripe , fresh strawberries smell great . I have had occasions when I entered a supermarket to quickly buy one thing , aimed at the correct aisle , but when the smell of good strawberries reached me near the produce , I turned and added a pack of them . I have never been disappointed with such strawberries . Also , if you smell the slightest hint of mold , fermentation , or foulness , you know they may not keep even one night . Another sign is that a ripe strawberry will be red through and through . A strawberry picked underripe will be white or even slightly greenish at the top . It does n't taste good then . But this is a negative sign , because not all red strawberries taste good . Do n't ever go by shape . The tastiest sort of strawberries my grandparents grew produced ugly , lumpy strawberries of a light , slightly orange color . They also had a few rows of a sort which produced perfectly conical , deep red strawberries , they looked like an advertisement - but they were hard and dry , and did n't have much aroma . Probably , there are some strawberries which both look and taste good - just do n't think that looks or color predict a good strawberry , because they are independent . And of course , any strawberries which have visible mold or fouled spots are not good any more . You can usually also recognize overripened strawberries in their appearance , but I do n't know how to describe it well . They just look old .
South-east Asian cuisine often uses fish heads in stews or steamed . I remember seeing a recipe for fish head stew . Try this one : <URL>
The exterior coating on an egg is known as the " cuticle " . It helps to protect the ( porous ) shell and minimize moisture loss , but it eventually breaks down as the chick matures and prepares to hatch . The reason that eggs in the US are typically sold under refrigeration is because they are washed with warm water and detergent to remove the large amount of bacteria that are deposited on the shell while being laid . Once the cuticle is removed the egg becomes more porous . Most bakeries that are using whole eggs will typically keep several flats out at all times to have them at room temperature . Eggs will store better and longer in the refrigerator but if being used frequently and fairly quickly , they can also be left at room temperature . Howard McGee in On Food &amp; Cooking says that egg quality deteriorates as much in one day at room temperature as it does four days under refrigeration .
Well , if it comes directly from Southern Italy you could use it to make some Southern Italy specialty like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , all of which require candied fruits . Traditionally pastiera is done with a mix of candied citron and orange peel plus candied pumpkin ( cucuzzata ) which however is not the easiest ingredient to find . Citrus is definitely a must for sfogliatelle . There are two types of sfogliatelle ricce and frolle . Sfogliatelel ricce are better tasting in my opinion , but can be challenging to do at home . <URL> Sfogliatella riccia Sfogliatella frolla Cannoli traditionally only have candied orange peels , but I guess citron would do well in them anyway . Cannolo siciliano Note : the pastry in the Wikipedia photo for pastiera seems way too thick and crumbly . The pastry should be very thin , there just to keep everything together , and should not be the dominant taste .
end question
start question
Chilli con carne - chocolate , cocoa powder or nothing ?
The origin of chili con carne is actually from the American southwest , not Mexico . It 's tex-mex , not mex . There are many variations on chili con carne , however if you go back to the earliest known recipes cocoa or chocolate are not on them . It 's pretty basic , flavored mostly by cumin and chili . So if you want to make the most authentic chili to the origin then skip the cocoa . However , there are many good recipes out there which have chocolate or cocoa in them and they are as valid as any other , so it all comes down to personal taste . I add unsweetened cocoa powder to my chili because the bitterness balances out the acidity of the canned tomatoes , and I like the flavor combinations you get . The umami from the chocolate enhances the flavor , and I like the way it hits the tongue , it gives it more punch . Once I made a chili and split it into two , with one I added some cocoa powder , otherwise the chilis were identical . I served both and asked people which they liked better and the vast majority preferred the one with cocoa in it . You can also add a tsp or two of instance coffee instead although I do n't think it 's as good . Adding sweetened dark chocolate instead of cocoa powder works just as well , there 's no much difference except the chocolate adds a bit of sweetness . The main benefit of using chocolate rather than cocoa powder is that you can try different varieties , however as it 's just an undertone you are n't likely to notice . So it 's all down to taste .
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
Apply heat . It 's not quite what you were looking for , but it 's probably the only solution that wo n't involve adding chemicals . Basically , a set amount of milk can hold a specific amount of chocolate in suspension . The hotter it is ( below boiling ) , the more it can hold . That 's why as the milk cools , the chocolate it can no longer hold falls to the bottom of the cup . The three options are : Keep it warm , by using a mug warmer ( like Catija suggested ) . If it does n't cool , it wo n't lose the ability to hold the chocolate . Start with less chocolate , that way , it wo n't be too much for the milk when it 's cooling . Obviously , this will affect the flavour . Add chemical additives , like emulsifiers , which will allow the milk to hold more chocolate . As I said at the beginning , I think the best option is the first one . Apply heat .
The vanilla chapter of Ian Hemphill 's " Spice and Herb Bible " says , Vanilla is also delicious in savory cooking because it is not overtly sweet . An innovative Mauritian restaurant in Sydney served a delicious vanilla chicken [ ... ] It was aromatic delicate and beautifully balanced . The same book has a recipe for Vanilla Salmon Salad where vanilla seeds are scraped into the dressing . I did a quick taste test using vanilla extract with various savory things from my fridge . Here are the results : Cheese : tasted fine , but I would n't call it a taste sensation ; Vegeburger : nasty combination ; I think the leeks in the burger were a problem ; Avocado : actually quite a nice combination ; Roasted aubergine : not bad ; Tomato : fine ; Savory omelet : not good ; onions do n't seem to work with vanilla extract ; Baked beans in tomato sauce : very nice . Note that using vanilla extract and a vanilla bean to flavor a dish are not the same thing . There is an amount of alcohol in the vanilla extract I used ( bourbon ) and this may completely invalidate the test . Having said that , the first indications are that alliums ( onions , leeks , garlic etc ) do n't go with vanilla . So onion soup may not be a good plan . And since curry generally contains plenty of onion and garlic , I 'm skeptical about using it there too . Turning to the question of whether vanilla and vanillin become dangerous when heated , the answer is almost certainly no . That does n't mean that heating vanilla is inconsequential . Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " mentions that vanilla beans contain more than 200 volatile compounds and notes , Prepared vanilla extracts [ ... ] are best added toward the end of cooking ; any period of time spent at a high temperature causes aroma loss . On the other hand , heating vanillin at normal cooking temperatures ( i.e. normal for soup and curry ) is not a problem . Its <URL> . As another answer mentions , vanilla has a more complex taste to pure vanillin . Most of what you will read comparing the two will be very much in favor of using real vanilla beans in cooking . Instead of repeating this advice , I 'm reminded of having read that in a Cook 's Illustrated <URL> to synthetic vanillin , the artificial flavoring came out on top . It 's probably not be enough to conclude that vanillin tastes better than vanilla but may encourage you to forge ahead if vanillin is all you can afford . Update : Having read @papin 's suggestion that you may need to caramelize the onions , I just did a quick taste test with rostad lök ( not sure how it translates from Swedish , the literal translation is toasted onion ) . It tasted slightly better but still not great . Again , I 'm using vanilla extract so my taste test is not necessarily valid .
True chocolate , made with cocoa butter , especially of the non-milk variety has a very long shelf life when stored in dry , cool conditions . The fact that the shape is a chip rather than a bar or disc or callet is not really relevant , except for the total surface area on which <URL> can occur . Chocolate is very , very dry , which discourages mold , bacteria , or other micro-flora or micro-fauna from growing , not even counting the preserving effect of theobromine and other alkali in the chocolate . It also resists rancidity very well . Stored properly , it can last for many years safely . Many brands of chocolate chips are not true chocolate , because the manufacturer may have used less expensive fats than cocoa butter , which do not have such excellent storage properties . Assuming you have a quality chocolate chip made from real chocolate , the issues you may find include : Sugar bloom , where the sugar comes to the surface due to moisture dissolving it and then leaving it on the surface when it evaporates Fat bloom , where the cocoa butter separates out onto the surface for reasons not thoroughly understood The chocolate can lose its temper from warming and cooling cycles , if it gets too warm ; this will change its texture to softer , more gritty , and less pleasant The cocoa butter could go rancid ( which I have never experienced ) The first three are aesthetic and cosmetic issues , but the chocolate can still be used in recipes or melted down and re-tempered . Having it go rancid would be cause to throw it out -- but chocolate is very hardy , and resists rancidity -- so if it tastes fine , it is still usable . After two years , you are quite likely to have experienced bloom . The chips will look like they have a white coating , and may feel gritty . While this makes it less pleasant to eat out of hand or in applications where it wo n't be melted down , it will still perform well in recipes where it is melted . They are certainly safe to eat ( again , assuming real chocolate , and no rancidity ) , but they may not have the same pleasant texture and crispness that you would expect . This is why manufacturer 's give them a best by date . Note : you can tell whether they are real chocolate by the ingredient list ( at least in the US , and other places with comparable labeling laws ) . Real chocolate will consist of : Cocoa solids , cocoa , cocoa mass , cocoa butter , cocoa nib , or chocolate liqueur ( all words indicating products of the cocoa bean ) Sugar Flavoring ( such as vanilla or salt ) Perhaps lecithin as an emulsifier Signs that the product is not real chocolate include other ingredients , especially other fats in lieu of cocoa butter ( which is comparatively expensive , and marketable to the cosmetics industry ) . Milk chocolate , which also contains milk solids and milk fat will not last as long , but still probably has a shelf life measured in years when stored under proper ( cool , dry ) conditions . White chocolate chips do not have the additional preservative effects of the cocoa solids and their alkali , and also have dairy solids and possibly milk fat , so they have the shortest shelf life of all . It also tends to pick up off flavors if not in a perfectly sealed , air tight container . White chocolate , I would not keep more than year or so . Of course , chips that are made from other ingredients than true chocolate are going to have a shelf life based on their ingredients , but I can not speak to that , and anyway , in my mind , they are not worth storing . See also : <URL>
Each variety of chile has a subtly different flavor , but generally the kind to use is determined by how spicy you want the dish to be ; spicier dishes need hotter peppers , otherwise you end up with a dish dominated by the peppers . For this reason , most people sort chiles by their spiciness , measured in Scoville Heat Units <URL> . The exact same papers can be used for Mexican and Indian cooking , as long as you want similar spiciness . To give options , I like to keep 3 kinds of dried peppers : a mild paprika , a standard hot pepper , and a ground , smoked one . The sweet paprika is for savor , the hot pepper to add spiciness , and ground , smoked peppers bring that distinctive smoky flavor to dishes . I usually use de Arbol pepper flakes ( about 30k SHU ) to add heat , and smoked hot paprika for smoked stuff . When I have a dish that showcases the flavor of a specific pepper , it 's time to get fresh ones from the store . For general purpose cooking , many people use mild paprika to add sweet , smoky flavors to Italian , French , Spanish , and Balkan cuisines . Generally these are of the Capsicum annuum species . Indian , Szechuan Chinese , and Central American cuisine normally use moderately hot peppers , in the 10-30k SHU heat range . Cayenne , tabasco , and de Arbol peppers are good examples . Thailand ( and some parts of India ) use very hot peppers up to 100k Scoville , called Bird 's Eye or Thai chiles . These peppers may be either Capsicum annuum ( normally milder ) or Capsicum frutescens ( normally hotter ) . Finally , Mexico and northeastern India use the hottest peppers of the Capsicum chinense species , including habaneros and the naga jolokia , which go from 100k SHU to 750k SHU . Mexico is a special case , because many varieties of pepper are mixed to get the desired flavor . Everything from bell peppers to habaneros gets regular use , and may be used smoked or dried .
No , it is not a good idea at all . It will be worse , not better . What you are missing here is that cocoa powder does not dissolve at all , never , it just disperses in water ( or milk ) . So there is no reason why methods for dissolving stuff would work with cocoa powder . You will need to use a method created for colloid-producing powders like cocoa powder , which is mostly starch with fat . This is why the answers to the other question recommend the slurry method . When you are dispersing an absorptive powder like starch , you always run a risk of clumping , and the slurry is designed to work around that problem . But starch also thickens much more under heat , so if you were to not just forego the slurry , but simply drop the cocoa powder into hot water , this would be the worst choice possible , leading to instant unbreakable clumps . The slurry method would n't work with hot water either , you 'll get clumps before you have created the slurry . So , the short answer is : if you try it , it wo n't " dissolve automatically " , it will produce an ugly undrinkable mixture of clumps .
My wife loves bacon that 's cooked to the cusp of burning , so I 've got a good knowledge of the properties of bacon on that fine line . It 's so brittle , you can powder it very easily . I myself would probably just stick it in a plastic bag , and whack it a few times with a pan , but I do n't see any reason why you could n't put it in the blender . I have a nice mortar and pestle I use for powdering things , but that 's probably overkill in this case .
Cocoa nibs are the result of fermenting the seeds from the cocoa fruit ( the size of a large grapefruit ) , and then roasting the whole cocoa beans , and then de-shelling them The de-shelling process tends to gently crack the contents into large pieces . Unlike other seeds and nuts this is acceptable as the product is going to be finely ground anyway You can also buy " raw cocoa nibs " , which are fermented , de-shelled , but not roasted . These have a different taste , and do not make good chocolate Roasted or not they taste interesting and are useful as a whole flavour item in salads , baking , drinks etc. . They are very high in fat so use with caution . The fat also has a very low melting point , so will make any warm liquid dish look oily They are not to everyone 's taste , unlike chocolate compound :-) In both these case the beans have been fermented on the ground for a few weeks . Non-fermented cocoa beans are not very nice ( I have n't ever had any though ) . From what I understand they compare to fermented beans like non-pickled olives are too pickled olives : - / Roasted cocoa bean nibs , and roasted cocoa beans Non-roasted cocoa bean nibs
You are making Gianduja - and if you make chocolates out of it , they 're Giandujotti - singular form Giandujotto ; The name might help you find sources of information . The tempering process will be basically the same ( I 've seen sources suggest 2 ° C below temperatures for white chocolate temperatures at all times ) , but keep in mind that it wo n't be as melt resistant and as such not particularly good for enrobing .
The origin of chili con carne is actually from the American southwest , not Mexico . It 's tex-mex , not mex . There are many variations on chili con carne , however if you go back to the earliest known recipes cocoa or chocolate are not on them . It 's pretty basic , flavored mostly by cumin and chili . So if you want to make the most authentic chili to the origin then skip the cocoa . However , there are many good recipes out there which have chocolate or cocoa in them and they are as valid as any other , so it all comes down to personal taste . I add unsweetened cocoa powder to my chili because the bitterness balances out the acidity of the canned tomatoes , and I like the flavor combinations you get . The umami from the chocolate enhances the flavor , and I like the way it hits the tongue , it gives it more punch . Once I made a chili and split it into two , with one I added some cocoa powder , otherwise the chilis were identical . I served both and asked people which they liked better and the vast majority preferred the one with cocoa in it . You can also add a tsp or two of instance coffee instead although I do n't think it 's as good . Adding sweetened dark chocolate instead of cocoa powder works just as well , there 's no much difference except the chocolate adds a bit of sweetness . The main benefit of using chocolate rather than cocoa powder is that you can try different varieties , however as it 's just an undertone you are n't likely to notice . So it 's all down to taste .
Chocolate is an odd substance when it comes to melting and hardening . When chocolate hardens , its melting point will end up being just a few degrees higher than the hardening temperature . When chocolate crystallizes at high temperatures , it forms a strong , dense crystalline structure that , texture-wise , is quite brittle . Most bought chocolate ( baker 's chocolate and chips ) is already tempered , but when you melt it , you break down that crystalline structure , and if you harden it at room temperature then it ends up forming very weak crystals that will melt in your hand . If you use a special coating chocolate ( couverture or the lower-quality compound chocolate ) then you do n't need to worry so much about tempering ( although it 's still a good idea ) , but if you use ordinary chocolate and do n't temper it then your coating will end up being messy and wet and rub off on your hands while you eat it . It might even melt while stored . Tempering is the key to making a room-temperature-stable chocolate coating . If you do n't do this , you 'll need to keep your pastries refrigerated until they 're ready to consume .
Harold McGee tackled alkaline noodles a while back . He found that baking baking soda actually changes it from sodium bicarbonate to sodium carbonate . This is a reasonable substitute for the kansui called for in alkaline noodles and can be substituted 1:1 in recipes . The noodles may not get AS yellow as they would with both alkalines present in kansui but it 's a small price to pay for not having to hunt down that ingredient . <URL> The key part : Just spread a layer of soda on a foil-covered baking sheet and bake it at 250 to 300 degrees for an hour . You 'll lose about a third of the soda 's weight in water and carbon dioxide , but you gain a stronger alkali . Keep baked soda in a tightly sealed jar to prevent it from absorbing moisture from the air . And avoid touching or spilling it . It 's not lye , but it 's strong enough to irritate .
A Baker 's ( now owned by kraft foods ) employee named Sam German developed a chocolate recipe that was sweeter than semi-sweet chocolate , as well as containing a blend of chocolate liquor , sugar , cocoa butter , flavorings , and lecithin . Baker 's honored Sam by naming the chocolate that he created Baker 's German 's Chocolate . In 1957 the recipe was published in a Dallas newspaper , although nobody is sure exactly when the recipe was originally created . Generally Foods - who had bought the brand - noticed that alot of people liked the recipe and started a PR campaign for German 's Chocolate using the recipe . They started sending it to newspapers all over - and people liked it . At some point the " 's " got dropped from the name , introducing all of the confusion we have about the origin of the cake today . References : <URL> <URL> <URL>
It is true that Saco Buttermilk Blend contains no live cultures . If you can have any further questions , please feel free to call our consumer line at 1-800-373-7226 . We are happy to answer any questions you may have about our product ! Amy Verheyden Director of Consumer Affairs Saco Foods , Inc. .
Any time you see something like " may contain " after an ingredient list , it 's a warning that it might contain trace amounts of that substance and so could be harmful to anyone who 's allergic to it . Basically what they 're saying is that they did n't intentionally add any milk or milk products to the cocoa butter , but since they make other products at the same factory that use milk they ca n't guarantee that some has n't slipped in somehow . So assuming that cocoa butter is the only ingredient then it would be pure cocoa butter , at least by the legal definition .
The baking powder undergoes a chemical reaction which produces small gas bubbles in the batter . The bubbles break up the batter coating ( sort of like the geometry inside a sponge ) so you wind up with a mass of little holes each surrounded by a thin layer of bready material , and it all fries up airy , light and crispy ; instead of one thick , dense , hard shell of cooked paste around your cauliflower bits .
Roasted garlic will get a slightly sweet flavor , dipped in a chocolate fondue can be wonderful and I have seen a recipe for garlic chocolate chip cookies . <URL>
<URL> list chili powder as : 2 tablespoons paprika 2 teaspoons oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste ( optional ) There are other mixtures , but this one seem basic enough . The " heat " comes from the cayenne pepper . The other spices round out the flavor . So I 'd mix everything but the cayenne pepper and use that mixture to cut your present chili powder .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
end question
start question
How can I imitate a coffee yoghurt ?
" Instant " coffee typically is disolved in hot water , so I 'd think that just stirring it into a cold product would be less than ideal . You might try <URL> ( as you 're adding sugar anyway ) or try steeping the instant coffee in hot milk or water first , cool it down , then mixing that into the yoghurt .
This is an art . Anyone who appreciates REAL tacos , can understand that this is not easy . God Bless anybody that can pull this off accurately ! I have it down to a science . I learned from my grandfather . His biggest secret was in the fork you use . We use cooking forks . 3 prong cooking forks ( most of the ones I see on google have two prongs ) . You can use regular forks too , but they arent made for cooking in high temp oil . First you must get the oil HOT . 350 atleast , preferably 400 degrees . Just before it starts smoking . You need really high oil heat . Once the oil is PLENTY hot , you hold a tortilla in one hand , and drop it in the oil halfway . It should be at 90 degrees , with your hand still holding the dry half of the tortilla . ( Note : keep your cooking fork ready for the next steps ) If your oil is hot enough , it will cook that half of the tortilla almost instantly . Let it cook until it hardens up , which should be less than a minute . Once the first half the bent tortilla is crisp , use the cooking fork to grab the tortilla half that is crisp and cooked . You will flip it here , putting the dry tortilla half ( that was in your hand ) into the oil , while the cooked half , sits above the oil with your fork . Now it should cook the other half of the taco shell . The art is using the fork well enough to create a gap at the base of the shell ( for meat or whatever you stuff with ) . And then flipping it and holding it with the fork while the other side crispens and finishes up . I would like to make a youtube video that shows this process , and it truly is an artform . Many people make great tacos but horrible tortilla shells . I grew up near Mexico , I was born 4 miles from Matamoros . I have seen my share of taco cooking , in the strangest of places . The best tacos Ive ever had use this method . And the best taco makers Ive ever seen wouldnt do this any other way ( by hand ) . It 's hard to do this without burning your hand ( s ) . Be careful . The dry tortilla absorbs the hot oil , even when your holding it over the grease in the first step . Youd be surprised how a corn tortilla will drink the oil right up to your hand . Give it practice . You will mess up a few tortillas . Dont worry about that , they make great quesadillas or nachos :)
Yes , I 've heard this suggested , using wet/dry sandpaper and a mousepad . It is a very inexpensive way to match a whetstone , and you can use sandpaper with the same grit to produce an excellent edge . You duct-tape the sand-paper together so it wraps around the mouse pad , and then pull the knife along the sandpaper with the edge trailing . This is to say , you use sandpaper in the opposite direction as a whetstone . Once you work up to the finest-grit papers , you can use jeweler 's polish and a leather strop for a truly razor-sharp edge . Because the mouse pad 's rubber/foam has some give , this method produces a convex edge which remains sharp for longer that an V-cut , because it has more metal behind the edge . It also still presents a very sharp point for cutting , moreso than an equivalent V-cut front bevel . Using sandpaper will also cost a small fraction of what you spend on a good sharpening stone , which will run you $ 50 or more PER STONE . Wondering what grit to use ? There are comprehensive tables <URL> and <URL> . However , here is a quick-reference mini-table for you : Name / US Grit Rating / Use Coarse / 100-400 / Remove lots of metal . At the low-end of the range , used for reshaping blades , taking out large chips , or restoring snapped points . At the higher end of grit range , used to establish a bevel angle and restore very dull edges . Medium / 400-700 / Remove moderate amounts of metal . For refining an edge established with coarse grits , and for restoring moderately dull blades . Can be used to establish a bevel angle , but it will take considerably longer . 600 grit is a common point to start at for standard sharpening . Fine / 800-1200 / For finishing a blade or touching-up a slightly dull blade . At about 1000 grit , you will get something equivalent to a factory edge , assuming you use the same bevel angle . Ceramic steels have grits in this range . Extra-Fine / 2000 + / For polishing . Higher grits create a shinier and sharper edge , until at 8000 + grit you get mirror finishes and sharpness equivalent to a straight razor . If you 're going to bother using grits this high , a leather strop and polishing paste may serve you better than even a ceramic steel ; the steel would actually be reducing the edge sharpness with use . Source : <URL> Source2 : <URL> Edit : Another way to use sandpaper in sharpening -- expanding the grit range for a Spyderco Sharpmaker I 'm currently using sandpaper to make a very coarse stone for sharpening extremely dull edges on my Spyderco Sharpmaker . I wrap both of the normal triangular stones with a strip of emery cloth or 220-grit wet/dry sandpaper , and then hold it in place with medium binder clips . Since the lowest stone the Sharpmaker comes with is 800-grit ceramic , this saves HOURS versus using the normal stones . It is also considerably cheaper than the diamond stones they sell ; for a big tub of clips and a package of sandpaper , I paid $ 7 , versus about $ 37 for the diamond rods .
The Cuisinart SG-10 spice grinder it designed to grind soft and hard spices . There is no reason why it could n't do coffee The <URL> even mentions nutmeg , which is significantly tougher than coffee Many coffee " professionals " like the burr grind ( like a pepper grinder ) , compared to the rotary blade grind ( like a small food processor ) , but either will work fine Also , many people grind spices in rotary blade coffee grinders , so it comes down to which style of grinding you like One issue with rotary ground coffee is the inconsistency of grind size . There will be too many fine particles that will leech out of the coffee holding/filter mechanism . If you do n't want solid particles in your coffee use a burr grinder
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
Before all , if you are not willing to invest more than $ 100 ( USD ) in a machine ( more like $ 350 , but I 'm sure you can scrounge for a decent entry-level machine to get the job done ) , you can stop reading as my suggestion relies on a better machine . That said , quickly browsing Amazon <URL> Here is what is going wrong with your latte : Machine : If you have a Krups it 's pressure probably is n't rated . This is a bad sign as it indicates how well it will " pull " ( brew , make ) the espresso . My guess for most units : Unrated = wo n't pull . Buy a machine with a rated pressure , 15-bar is what to expect . ( I do n't mean to sound snobby ; I got by with a $ 60 Coffeemate for awhile , but they wo n't get you the results you 're asking for ) Bean : Lattes are made with espresso , not coffee ( U.S. ) . You 're using coffee . So start by buying espresso beans instead of dark roast coffee or Folgers . While you 're at it , if you want it to taste like restaurant quality , buy them from a local roaster ( I 'd imagine you can get some mad fresh beans in Africa ) and grind them fresh ( just prior to brewing ) . I prefer a coarser grind to my espresso , you will also need to press the grinds ( " pack " ) in the gruppa ( metal basket of machine ) . Milk : While you 're at it , do n't necessarily use whatever comes out of the fridge . <URL> and <URL> have the dirt on milk and frothing . Basically <URL> . If you have a favorite place in mind for your exemplar latte , go ask them where they get their milk and follow suit . There 's a degree of preference in which milk you use , go with the one you know you prefer and perfect your technique . Frothing/Steaming : You are n't frothing your milk . Buy a machine with a working wand , froth the milk . Actually , frothing the milk is fun and it tastes great all on its own . Note : you do want to get foam on top , this indicates you have properly steamed the milk below ( remember to hold back the foam , and pour only the steamed milk into your latte , then depending on your region 's definition adding a bit of foam on top ) . Container : Add some dignity to life whenever you can . Use ceramic ; you 're at home . Those are the key differences that are causing problems for the latte you want to amp up . Now you can skip the consumer espresso machine advice and get a stove-top setup ( <URL> and use a normal , smallish pot with a whisk for the milk ) , but that takes a smidge more effort in terms of getting it right . Either way , following these guidelines should get that latte much closer to where you want it to be . Basically , the only advantage the shop will have over yours is a bigger machine , overworked employees who might not have the time to care about your coffee at this time , and paper cups .
The possible risks I can think of are ( 1 ) the large thermal mass may mean that the soup cools off too slowly , leading to spoilage in the middle , and ( 2 ) freezer burn on the top of the soup , because there 's no truly effective way to seal out air from a pot . In practice , ( 1 ) is unlikely unless you 're talking about a 25-gallon pot or something , in which case it would n't fit in an ordinary freezer anyway . ( 2 ) on the other hand will be a problem , unless you 're only freezing the soup for a short period . The only risk to the pot is that it may not quite fit in the freezer comfortably , so as people take things out and put things in , they may shove the pot about and maybe break a handle or something .
Here is how we made pomme puree at the restaurant I used to work at , for a very well known ( in Canada anyway ) French chef : Peel and boil as many potatoes as you need . Cook until slightly underdone . Run the potatoes through a ricer/food mill . Then -- this is key -- scrape the result through a tami -- a very fine mesh sieve . Most often used for sifting flour . Usually about 14-18 " diameter , looks like a drum . Return resulting potato to a pot , add melted butter , cream , salt , pepper , nutmeg to your desired consistency , stirring all the time . If not serving immediately , chill as fast as possible , and reheat to order in a pan using a little more cream to loosen it up . IMPORTANT : you must work as fast as possible ; the potatoes need to stay hot the whole time or will become gluey .
I think on some level you 'll just get what you get with something hard like an almond . A really really sharp knife with a thin blade can help , but you can only do so much . My hand-cut ones are always a bit on the raggedy side . When using a food processor , try smaller batches to leave bigger or more consistent pieces . You do n't have to pulse as long to get everything broken up , so you get less that 's ground to nothing . Do a small batch for a short chop , dump 'em out , do another . As to how to do slivered or sliced almonds , I always figured that they started with blanched almonds ( which are less crisp in my experience ) or maybe even raw ones and then roasted them after cutting to crisp them up . You might experiment with blanched or unroasted almonds and see if you get a better result with a knife .
Use lighter roast coffee : caffeine burns off as the roast darkens . All other things equal , though , the stronger the cup of coffee , the more caffeine will be in it . You are n't going to reach caffeine saturation just by brewing ( even very ) strong coffee . So brew coffee with lighter roasted beans to your maximum desired strength .
Ask them for Brennspiritus . You can get it in bigger drugstores like DM or Rossmann , I do n't know who else will have it , but maybe home maintenance ( ? ) stores ( Baumärkte ) . You ca n't use butane , that 's a different fuel and obviously not suitable for your case . You should be able to use pure ethanol , but due to alcohol import laws , medicinal ethanol without dilutants is extremely expensive , and medicinal ethanol with dilutants might have dilutants which create something bad when burned . Brennspiritus is ethanol with dilutants which can be burned safely , while still making it undrinkable . If everything else fails , you can start burning high-percentage drinking alcohol , my grandpa uses it sometimes on Spiritus burners . The problem ( besides being more expensive ) is that you need both a high ABV ( something around 70 % will be good ) and a pure alcohol ( vodka or obstwasser ) ; alcohol types which you are likely to find at these percentages ( such as rum ) can leave layers of badly combusted gunk inside the burner .
To make you pancakes spread more , and thus be thinner , increase the amount of liquid in the recipe . This will make the batter less viscous , so that it will spread more before beginning to set , thus giving you thinner pancakes . I would start slowly , perhaps a couple of tablespoons extra milk ( or just plain water ) until you find the consistency that you like . You will also have to experiment to determine the appropriate cooking time , as the additional liquid will somewhat need to be cooked off to get the best texture . Of course , there is nothing wrong with using the bottom of your ladle to help the batter spread out a bit more . This is normal , and will somewhat even out as the pancakes cook .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
A couple things : make sure you 're removing enough of the fat from the pan . Too much fat will keep the sauce thin ( and will also tend to separate out afterwards ) . Also , fat will not evaporate -- if your remaining liquid is fat , the temperature will rapidly rise , and very quickly things will burn . depending on what you 're adding , you may need to use a thickener . There is a reason three of the five mother sauces have roux . ( Hollandaise has egg , which thickens , Tomate has tomato which has lots of pectin , which also thickens , so those two do n't need it ) . A good stock or broth has plenty of gelatin , which will thicken especially upon cooling . When you add your deglazing liquid , you need to thoroughly scrape up the fond and stir it in . Keep stirring , especially towards the end when its somewhat thick . Also especially if your pan has hot spots . Turn down the temperature . This should go without saying when things are burning . Some heat helps with deglazing , but after that you do n't actually need anything more than a low simmer -- higher evaporates faster ( important , since the meat is often resting &amp; cooling ) but not burning the sauce is more important .
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
Espresso , steamed milk . It is n't a complicated recipe at all , but it does require some equipment and technique . Espresso : You need to use an espresso roast coffee that is finely ground . If you like Starbucks , then buy a pound from them . Milk : There are a whole bunch of beverages made out of coffee and steamed milk . My joke about Italians is that every time they make one tiny little change in the preparation of something , they give it a brand new name . You need to steam the milk to introduce air and to warm it up , subtly changing the flavour . If you watch the barristas at starbucks , you 'll see that they end up with a steel pitcher of warm milk with a thick foam on top . I 'll define a cappuccino as the base beverage . A Cappuccino is 1 measure of Espresso , 1 measure of the warm milk from the bottom of the pitcter ( Use a spoon to stop the foam from pouring out ) and then one measure of the dry foam spooned on top . A Macchiato is a DRY cappuccino . Omit the milk . Just spoon the dry foam on top . A Latte is a WET cappuccino . Omit the foam . You can spoon a little on top for appearances . I 've used the terms wet and dry . If you were to actually order a wet cappuccino , you 'd get something between the Latte and Cappucino . If you were to order it dry , you 'd get something between the Cappuccino and the Macchiato . The French Cafe Au Lait is strong coffee ( brewed , not expressed ) , with almost boiled milk . If you do n't have a steamer available , this might be the route to take . It 's similar to a Latte , but without the equipment .
So , there 's maybe a few things I found to reduce the astringency or bitterness of spinach . If you can reduce the bitterness to a flavor you like first , rather then relying on the sugar to mask or balance astringency ( which it does n't hide so much ) - you can probably end up with a better dessert . One thought is that <URL> the spinach will help counter bitterness . briefly boil your washed spinach , and discard the water . If you 're intending to further cook the spinach afterwards ( as in making a fruit-based halwa ) , cold shocking it might not be needed - It 's possible that discarding the water will be enough , though of course you can try with and without the cold shock to see what works for you . Another thing is astringency can be countered or hidden by soaking in <URL> - Adding a bit of <URL> to your final recipe ( as in some of the fattier nut-style halwas ) should help balance a little bitterness , Pre-soaking the spinach in milk and discarding might work to draw out some of the astringency . Soaking in food grade lime or absorbic acid like lemon juice or vitamin C , might also work . Another option is to consider the source of your spinach - <URL> ( for example ) will likely not have as much of the bitterness in it to begin with , compared to a cooked full grown spinach . Baby spinach is mild enough to be eaten straight in a salad , mild enough that it might even be candied , like <URL> , for a garnish after your dish is complete . You might also consider whether the spinach will work better as a flavoring agent or as a bulk agent in your halwa - many fruit based halwas ( which seems the easiest method ) simply stew the fruit with sugar for a long cooking period , so you need to make sure the spinach as a whole is not going to turn bitter or change while cooking . Other types of halwa may use different ingredients , for different effects - a jelly based or nut-based halwa might easily be flavored with spinach juice ... juice which can be extracted at any point along the process , from raw to well-boiled . Leaving the solids behind may help reduce unwanted flavors - or just make the juice more controllable ( that is , extract the juice when it is a flavor you like , and the lack of the rest of the plant might keep it form changing overmuch ) . You might even consider pairing your spinach with another fruit or vegetable , something complementary or neutral for the bulk removed if you go the juice route - something mild and vegetal might mellow the spinach taste without overriding it ( especially if you watch the proportions and use more spinach flavor , less other flavors ) . Maybe watercress , or celery , asparagus , or bellpepper , something like that that tastes green , or tastes good with spinach . Or you could find a flavor that goes well with the spinach - citrus , or apple , or berries - the kind of flavors that show up on sweet dressings for fresh spinach salads .
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
There are many myths surrounding yogurt making : UHT milk is bad . This is simply not true . I have made yogurt with whole fat UHT milk for years and it comes out nice and thick . In fact for the past several months I have been using a high quality whole milk powder that makes a lovely , thick yogurt . Store bought yogurt will always be thicker because of additives . Also not true . My yogurt is as thick as a high fat sour cream and contains no added milk powder , gelatine , etc. . You need many hours of ' fermentation ' to make yogurt . Again I do n't agree . My yogurt sets in 3-4 hours , after which it goes in the fridge to cool and finish the culturing process . The milk must be exactly x temperature when you add the starter . This is only somewhat true . As long as the milk is at or below 45 ° C it is fine . If you can stand the temperature , so can the bacteria -- ie , if you can hold a finger in it for ~ 10 sec , it 's ok . That said , too low and you 're losing some effects of the protein denature explained below . Everything must be sterilized . This is only somewhat true . Clean everything carefully , of course , but you are adding a starter with billions of cultivated bacteria into an ideal environment for it to grow . It will easily dominate other bacteria that happen to get in -- and they will , since there are bacteria in the air all around us , so even post-sterilization there will be plenty of foreign stuff entering the yogurt . That said , an over-long incubation will give other bacteria a chance to express themselves , so best to avoid that . Do n't move , touch , or cause the yogurt to shake in any way during incubation or it will fail . I used to believe this myself but it 's really not that sensitive . Obviously less agitation is better , but it will not fail even with fairly substantial movement during the incubation . Drinking yogurt is shaken quite violently during incubation in order to keep it liquid and even then it 's still quite viscous . The keys to making good thick yogurt are : Protein . The milk becomes solid because of a protein in the milk , and for that to happen , the protein must first be heated to above 70 ° C. I heat it to 75-80 ° C for just a few minutes and it still turns out very thick . A milk with high quality protein will make a great yogurt . Incubation temperature . If you want to make good yogurt in 3-4 hours ( beyond which it will not get thicker , only more sour ) , it must be incubated at a steady 40-45 ° C . A lower temperature will also produce yogurt , but you are in a race with other bacteria , so the quicker it 's done the better . Buy a 75-cent indoor thermometer and start looking for ways to create the right temperature environment . Time between generations . Try to bake a new batch every 4-5 days . After a week in the fridge the bacteria are starting to suffer and will not be as strong and active when introduced into the next batch . A short generation cycle will let you go on making yogurt with the same culture for dozens of generations . Sugar quantity . This is my own personal guess based on bread making , etc. . A little sugar will boost the bacteria , but too much will slow it down . I use 2 tbsp per litre of milk and it works very well . Tart with a hint of sweet . Up to double this amount should be fine but more could affect it . Like I say I 'm guessing here but it seems to make sense . Two final notes . The " water " that separates out of the yogurt is whey protein -- generally seen as a very healthy thing to eat . A firm yogurt will let you pour it or spoon it off if you do n't like it , but there 's no reason not to just scoop it out with the rest or stir it back in . Fat content is important , but the milk protein is what will make or break the yogurt . I have made a very thick yogurt with skim milk powder or skim milk with added skim milk powder . Soy milk , which has quite a bit less fat than whole milk , makes a very solid yogurt . It 's all about solids . Of course a > 3 . x % whole fat milk will produce a tastier yogurt , because milk fat is oh so tasty ! Further reading from an industry source : <URL> Additional tips : <URL>
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
end question
start question
What happens if you cook pureed pancakes ?
When you cook it , the mixture would go from firm to melted as the temperature increased above the freezing point . Also , your egg proteins that previously held it together will have already been denatured ( no way to undo this step mechanically ) with the first cooking episode so I 'm not aware of anything that would hold the batter together once it melted unless you added more egg . Also , you would not have the bubbles expected in pancakes without adding more baking soda / powder ( as previously mentioned ) or putting the mixture in a siphon with nitrous . Either way , probably not a very pleasing result unless you put the batter in a siphon , charge it up , freeze it , and make sure it remains frozen until consumed . In that case you would have frozen pancakes not much different than freezing the original subject other these would melt into a mess with the consistency of the batter upon thawing .
So <URL> and <URL> suggest that there are 3 kinds of rinds . Summary below : Bloomy : Appears white , soft , maybe fuzzy . Can also be reddish/brownish . Comes on softer cheeses that have a more custard-like flavor . Formed by a spray of penicillium candidum before aging . Edible , but the flavor changes and may taste ammoniated over time ( consume so long as it 's palatable ) Washed : Color ranges from pinkish red to orange or brown . Caused by bathing the cheese in some kind of solution , be it a salty brine , beer , brandy , wine or some other alcohol . Contributes to the flavor in some cheeses , and tastes unpleasant in others . Natural : Formed by letting the cheese age on its own , drying out and growing whatever molds might be present in the cheese or air . Tends to have a concentrated flavor of the cheese , but may not be palatable . Examples : Stilton , Montgomery Cheddar , Parmigiano-Reggiano . Sometimes comes under a cloth cover . Should be edible , minus the cloth . Additionally , there are two other possibilities No Rind : There should be no guessing here . You 've probably had cheeses with no rind ... because they might come in a container . Ricotta , fresh mozzarella , and creme fraiche come to mind . Wax/Twig/Cloth : Inedible . Should be discarded My personal takeaway from this quick research is that I should learn to distinguish artificial covers ( cloth/wax ) from rinds . It seems like those that separate from the cheese will either be an artificial cover or an old rind , both of which are undesirable . If it 's indeed a rind , then I 'd taste it , both alone and with the cheese , to determine if it 's palatable . For Parmigiano-Reggiano specifically , I 've read that it goes well in soup . Perhaps this is because it 's unpalatable-y hard , but still contains the concentrated flavor . TLDR : look for cloth/wax . If none , is it tasty ? Does it feel good in the mouth ?
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
I think it would depend on the cheese . For a reasonably hard cheese , like cheddar , I have done it , and never gotten sick ( your results may vary ) . If it 's pre-grated , then I would not touch it anymore . For a softer cheese , like a brie , I would not risk it .
Eggs are completely safe in cooked food , and pancakes are cooked . Pancakes made from scratch have egg in the batter too . As long as you do n't drink the batter , or more realistically , leave an uncooked bit in the middle of the pancakes , you 're totally safe . ( And of course , it does n't take much to kill salmonella , and a mL of uncooked batter right in the middle of a pancake has ridiculously small odds of getting you sick even if it 's somehow still cold , but if you 're trying to play by all the rules , then you should make sure they 're fully cooked - you probably want that anyway . )
Yes , onions contain sugar , just like most fruit and vegetables . It is not simply a common phrase , it is true caramelization . They have 4.24 g of sugar per 100 g in total ( wet weight ) . For dry weight 40 % is sugar . See <URL> for more details .
Consider the castiron stuff from Le Creuset ; my father-in-law has one that 's at least 50 years old and it 's still going strong . Lifetime warranty , too . <URL> They have roasting racks to fit as well .
Kneading dough has a few functions . First , it distributes the ingredients together evenly and allows the flour to become hydrated . As the flour starts to absorb water , enzymatic reactions occur and some proteins begin to mesh together . The two most important in this process are glutenin and gliadin . When these proteins start to get tangled up together , they form gluten , which is the protein that allows bread dough to stretch and trap gas bubbles produced by yeast . These reactions will occur on their own to an extent , as in no-knead recipes , but kneading accelerates the process . Kneading also allows you to control the texture of the bread . A vigorous knead can help to produce a bread with a fine crumb as the kneading an tighten the gluten , keeping the air bubbles more uniform . Doing short kneading periods ( or folds ) spaced by time for the dough to relax and rise can give you more extensible dough which can help give you a more open crumb structure . Finally , kneading is sometimes used to add inclusions to the dough that would disrupt it 's activity if added to early . This can be things like seeds , which would cut gluten strands if included too early in the process , or things like butter in a brioche , which would shorten the dough if included before the gluten had already developed .
Its going to depend on the type of packaging and also the freezer . Lightly wrapped in plastic wrap ( or worse , paper ) will freezer burn fairly quickly . Vacuum-sealed will last much longer . A self-defrost freezer with wide temperature swings will burn quicker . A manual defrost chest freezer much slower . Worst case is probably around a month or less ( not really sealed , freezer with wide temperature swings ) , best case ( vacuum sealed in stable temperature chest freezer ) over a year .
I am not a chemist , but my grandma always used to make bread ( and similar stuff ) with sparkling water instead of still water . She always mentioned that the result will be more fluffy and airy . This only addresses the question about the ( important ) consistency though , but I guess you should just try it out yourself . Edit : Some benefits of using sparkling water in the kitchen As this answer got downvoted to zero I guess my grandma was not convincing enough . So I asked a befriended chef who works at a luxury hotel chain in Germany . Here 's what he explained : Desserts can be made more creamy without actually adding cream . Here he gave examples of pudding/mousse-ish desserts Vegetables steamed with sparkling water results in less loss of color ( i.e. brighter colors ) , more crispyness , and stronger taste . He particularly recommended to try it with carrots , broccoli or cauliflower . You can add sparkling water to thick soups shortly before serving to get them more foamy . Similar with Salad dressings Last but not least he confirmed precisely what my grandma said . For doughs and similar stuff ( for salty or sweet dishes ) you would get a nice fluffy texture . Kudos to my grandma at this point .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
It is possible for mold to form on cashews - or any other nuts - but only if there has been moisture penetration into the container . If the moisture is at a safe ( low ) level , then mold wo n't grow . See for example , <URL> , which refers to the maximum acceptable moisture content of 5.8 % for retail storage/shipping , although if you look at their data table , it appears that you may still end up with non-trivial amounts of mold in the low 5 % range ( which is why you are supposed to store nuts sealed and in a cool , dry place ) . Honestly , cashews are hard enough such that you would almost certainly see mold on the surface if it were present in harmful quantities . Most likely what you 're smelling/tasting is simply oxidation of the fats ( the process which causes rancidity ) without actual full-blown rancidity . Mold requires moisture but all oxidation requires is light and maybe a little air exposure . If you really want to be on the safe side - e.g. if your home is particularly hot or humid - then store your nuts in the refrigerator or freezer ( sealed , to prevent contamination or off-odours ) . Although most ( all ? ) nuts are considered shelf-stable , they do keep longer in the fridge or freezer .
The FDA does not currently have a legal definition of stone ground . Companies like Hodgson 's Mill , Bob 's Red Mill , and Arrowhead Mills have petitioned the FDA to set a definition in the past under the concept of truth in labeling , to no avail . <URL>
Flax is a very problematic fabric to wash , and even more problematic to dry . You risk ending up with stiff , wrinkled , and/or shrunk fabric . I would never machine wash the flax couche . Actually , I would n't wash it after regular use , when it does n't come into contact with anything but flour and lean dough . But if it accidentally got dirtied with something else , you are obviously better off washing it than throwing it away . In this case , I would hand-wash it in room-temperature water , neven in a washing machine ( not even the wool cycle ) . Use wool detergent ( no fabric softener ) , and do n't crumple the fabric while washing . Instead , try to let it soak a bit ( maybe 15-20 min ) and then gently " shake off " the dirt under water . You can add a bit of food grade citric acid for the last rinse , because acid acts somewhat similar to fabric softener . When it is washed , do n't wring it . Shake off as much water as you can , then lay it between two frotee towels . It should be spread out , not wrinkled or folded . Keep it at room temperature , not near sun , wind or a heater . Change the towels after 6 to 8 hours ( the first time you may have to change them sooner ) . Repeat until it is only moist , not wet . Then spread it somewhere to dry without towels , again away from sun , wind , or excessive heat . Turn it every few hours . It will probably be stiffer than when you started with it , but I think it will be still usable .
Follow these steps and watch very carefully ... Set your oven on Broil ( high ) and put your rack on the top shelf . Let the oven get nice and hot ( 3-7 minutes ) . Fill an oven safe dish with crushed ice and water and place your dishes into the ice/water bath . The cold bath should keep the custard from cooking , but the sugar on top will heat till it caramelizes . It 'll only take 3-4mins .
Hot gasses such as steam and CO2 trapped inside the dough by the crust are important to help properly bake the bread , as well as to give it form and structure . If you cut a slice off the end of the bread before the bread has finished baking , you completely change the conditions under which the bread finishes baking : steam will escape rather than building up , the internal temperature probably wo n't rise as much , and the bread will tend to dry out rather than cook . If you 're not sure whether your bread is done , you should take its temperature . An instant-read , digital thermometer with as fine a probe as possible is best because it compromises the crust the least . For the same reasons , you should let bread cool as @justkt suggests before cutting into the loaf . Bread smells great when it 's hot , but it tastes best when it has cooled somewhat .
To make you pancakes spread more , and thus be thinner , increase the amount of liquid in the recipe . This will make the batter less viscous , so that it will spread more before beginning to set , thus giving you thinner pancakes . I would start slowly , perhaps a couple of tablespoons extra milk ( or just plain water ) until you find the consistency that you like . You will also have to experiment to determine the appropriate cooking time , as the additional liquid will somewhat need to be cooked off to get the best texture . Of course , there is nothing wrong with using the bottom of your ladle to help the batter spread out a bit more . This is normal , and will somewhat even out as the pancakes cook .
If you wrap the fish ( or any meat you 're freezing ) with a layer of plastic wrap and a layer of aluminum foil , it will keep out air out and moisture in as much as possible without vacuum sealing . Make sure you wrap with plastic wrap first , then aluminum foil . The taste of aluminum can leech into the food and supposedly there are health risks associated with aluminum/meat contact as well , though I have n't heavily researched them . Better safe than sorry , though . Then I also recommend using a straw to suck out as much air as possible , as chris suggests . <URL> has some great guidelines on freezing meat and minimizing freezer burn . While it only calls out meat and poultry , I use the same methods for fish with great success .
You probably misread the recipe . It 's suggested that dry beans soak overnight so that they cook in a reasonable amount of time the next day ( unless you use a pressure cooker . ) There is no need to soak barley , pearled or not . It 's my guess that you mistook the bean soaking for barley in the recipe . That , or it 's a typo .
I have had the same issue when cooking lots of quesadillas , and have found the following combination of techniques to work quite well . The obvious answer has been hit upon already , lower the heat . But I think that 's missing an important aspect of the issue . What 's happening is most likely that you are turning on the heat and then cooking your first omelet before the pan has actually reached temperature . Depending on the type of pan , it can take up to 5 mins for the pan to reach temperature . So , as you continue to cook , the pan is getting closer to temperature . Of course , each time you add more cold egg , the temp decreases again . So your heat is too hot , but it does n't really become apparent until the last omelet . Rather than just starting at a lower temperature though , start at the same temp you tried and then turn down the temperature as you continue to cook . The pan can also heat rapidly between omelets . Take the pan off the heat , swirl your butter or oil through it , add the egg , and then put it back on the heat . If it seems really hot when you add the egg , you can cook it for a second with just the radiant heat of the pan before returning to the burner . This will stop the pan from getting too hot between omelets .
end question
start question
How can I buy or make pasteurized eggs ?
The theory is to pasteurize them sous-vide at 57ºC for 1:15 ' . You must be able to control the temperature , so specialized equipment is needed ( ronner or similar ) . The resulting egg has a different texture than ordinary ( and I believe it tastes more ' yolky ' ) . I 've kept homemade mayo for more than two weeks without problem ( off smell / taste ) . Custards are heated , so no pasteurized eggs are needed , just like hollandaise sauce .
I use Propane all the time . There are several factors as to why : It is cheap , about 1/4 the price of butane . It 's more readily available . You can buy a propane torch at many different stores for very cheap . The torches typically put out a lot more heat . I 've used both propane and butane , mostly for crème brulee , but other food as well . The butane torches put out such a focused small area of heat , that it would get uneven burning . Whereas with Propane , they often put out a much larger area of heat , making it easier to caramelize across the surface evenly . As for the concern of it imparting propane flavor , I have had that happen , once , but I 've also had that happen with butane . It 's all about flow control . If you have the dial turned up too high and it 's spewing out massive amounts of propane , plus hold the flame too close to the food , you MIGHT get then hint of propane . But if you have the torched dialed in to the proper settings , you really ca n't beat the ease and convenience of " energy-efficient clean-burning propane gas "
In recipes , buttermilk brings liquid , some milk solids , some acid , and if it is not made from skim milk ( it is a cultured product ) , some fat . In a pinch , you can substitute approximately 1 cup milk with 1 tbl lemon juice or vinegar . For information on making your own cultured buttermilk , <URL> . It is made from milk and an active culture starter from commercial or previous buttermilk batches , much akin to making yogurt . Edit : As hinted in Fisher 's answer , for some applications , particularly quick breads and muffins , buttermilk can also be substituted one to one with yogurt or sour cream .
General comments on the shelf - , fridge - , and freezer-life of foods The shelf-life is the amount of time a food can be stored before it is considered unsuitable for use . It may be unsuitable due to quality degradation ( no longer tasty ) or food safety ( risk of food poisoning ) . [ <URL> ] As far as food safety goes , food stored frozen at 0 ° F ( -18 ° C ) or below is remains safe forever ; only quality degrades over time . [ <URL> ] . Thus the freezer-storage times below are entirely about quality . If your freezer is set at a temperature higher than -18 ° C ( three-star setting ) , these times may not apply . Especially the safe storage time in one-star freezers ( -6 ° C ) is much reduced . The times all assume proper storage . Freezers 0 ° F or below , refrigerators 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . [ <URL> ] Cans should be stored in a cool , dry place , below 85 ° F ( 30 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The tables given here assume proper storage . Food which requires refrigeration is considered unsafe if left for over two hours at temperatures between 41 -- 135 ° F ( 5 -- 57 ° C ) [ <URL> ] . The Tables Regardless of the table below , if a food shows signs of spoilage ( including mold , with some exceptions described below ) , its past its shelf-life . Note that the lack of spoilage does not imply safety . Uncooked Proteins Cooked proteins Dairy Sauces For home-made mayo , there do n't seem to be official shelf-life estimates . Seasoned Advice has a question on this , <URL> . Vegetables Freezer times are given for cooked or blanched , then frozen . Generally , this is required , otherwise enzymatic degradation will occur . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each vegetable . Refrigerator and shelf times are for storage raw . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . Fruits Many fruits must be at least partially cooked ( blanched ) before freezing in order to deactivate enzymes that would otherwise degrade quality while in storage . Some are best frozen packed in acid ( lemon juice or citric acid ) and/or syrup . See " Where can I go for details on a specific food ? " for where to find specific steps for each fruit . If a column is , it means that storage type is not recommended . " Ripe " means " until ripe " . * : bananas stored in the fridge will blacken . This is not a sign of spoilage , and they can be eaten safely . Cooked dishes Generally 3 -- 4 days in the fridge . This includes pizza , soups , stews , casseroles , pies , and quiche [ KC ] . Some salads get a fifth day [ CFG ] . Freezer time is generally under three months . Infused oils Putting any plant matter in oil ( such as garlic , chillies or herbs ) creates the danger for botulism , a rare but fatal disease . Thus infused oils are not shelf-stable . They can be kept in the refrigerator for 3-5 days , discard them earlier if you see cloudiness or gas bubbles . Or buy commercially produced infused oils , they have been treated with industrial methods to kill the botulinum spores . Shelf-stable until opened Pantry ( not refrigerated even after opening ) General tips for storing foods How do I freeze fruits and vegetables ? Fruit . Ripe ( but not overripe ) fruit should be used . Wash them , and sort according to size . Working in small batches , remove pits , seeds , and blemishes . For fruits that turn brown , apply ascorbic acid or sugar and citric acid . Most fruits benefit from packing in dry sugar or a sugar syrup . Small , whole fruits ( e.g. , berries ) can be spread on a tray and individually frozen , then packed in a freezer bag or other airtight container . Vegetables . Most vegetables need blanching . To blanch , immerse in boiling water over high heat or steam over rapidly boiling water ( steam ) . After blanching , transfer to ice bath for the same amount of time as blanched . Drain and dry . Freeze either by packing in a freezer bag with as much air as possible removed , or by allowing to freeze on a tray , then putting in a bag or other container . General guideline is 8 -- 12 months for best quality . The above is a very quick summary of Iowa State University 's <URL> . The five-page document includes full details on over forty fruits and vegetables . Feel free to ask here on Seasoned Advice if that guide does n't answer your question . What about mold ? Some foods are expected to have mold in them ( e.g. , P. roqueforti in Roquefort cheese ) . Unexpected mold , however , is something to be concerned about . Mold can grow even on refrigerated foods , and even those high enough in salt or sugar to deter bacteria . Some molds produce mycotoxins . Mold growth can be minimized by cleaning the refrigerator every few months ( use a mixture of 1 tablespoon of baking soda per quart of water , then rinse with plain water , then dry ) , by keeping dishcloths , sponges , mops , etc. clean and fresh-smelling ; and keeping indoor humidity levels under 40 % . In general , the visible surface mold on a food is only a small part of the actual mold growth . For most foods , any visible unexpected mold grow
In the accepted answer to <URL> , it says that you can try wringing the pumpkin purée out in cheese cloth ; or in a comment , that you can let it drain in a colander .
I seem to recall that in Moroccan cities there are often ' neighbourhood ' ovens where you pay a small amount to have your bread baked , because few people have their own ovens . You cut a distinctive design in the loaf so you can tell which is yours when you go back to collect it ; the whole system is extremely ancient . The ovens are usually wood-fired clay ovens , so you 'll get a nice stone-baked result as well .
Yes , all it is , is flavour . Apple juice and grape juice are 2 things I 've used in the past for non-alcohol people . You can also get away with not using anything as a replacement as long as you use enough of everything else ( butter and parmesan etc ) . Wine just gives a little depth and a sort of ' freshness ' . Edit : I just read the vegetarian part of your question . I 'm assuming you already know , but Parmesan is n't vegetarian , as it is made from rennet ( <URL> ) , and most commonly from the fourth stomach of young calves . The vegetarian substitute 's I 've tried in the past ( Called pasta cheese ) , are not great . However , unlike Parmesan , Gruyere is allowed to be made with vegetable rennet and taste 's great ( I personally prefer it over Parmesan ) .
I would actually just make caramel . Place about 1 1/4 cup sugar and 1/4 cup in a heavy bottom pan and dissolve over low-medium heat then crank up the heat and let cook , without stirring , until the mixture turns a golden amber colour and starts smoking . Then use the resulting caramel to sweeten your coffee :-)
Many of the dried noodles that are marketed as " udon " -- at least in my experience in the USA -- are actually mislabeled , thinner noodles like <URL> or even <URL> . I would suggest buying the semi-dried variety that are usually packaged in vacuum sealed plastic . This variety is shelf stable , but it can often be found in the refrigerated section of Asian mega-marts . The noodles will already be almost full size before cooking .
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
Ah , we consumers and our expectations : Egg yolks are yellow . But in reality , yolks come in a range from pale yellow to deep orange . The colour is determined by the food ( wheat makes lighter yolks than corn , for example ) and can be influenced by feeding " colourants " for a darker hue . Some regions allow even artificial dyes , but a pinch of paprika will do nicely . Apparently the " expected " or " preferred " yolk colour is also a cultural thing , I found a source claiming that European customers want more orange hues while US customers expect deep yellow . Organic and free-range eggs typically have a greater variation than those from large agro-industrial production . So if your scrambled eggs are sometimes lighter , sometimes darker , either accept it as " natural " or check the colour of your yolks when you crack the eggs and for pale yolks add a colourant like a small pinch of turmeric ( what makes curry powder yellow ) or paprika ( for more orange eggs ) . If you use only a very small amount , it wo n't influence the taste or only very slightly so . Stir the spice in , then proceed as usual .
If you just want to change the color - just some <URL> should be fine . If you ca n't find it in a store locally , you can always see if a bakery that does cakes will give you just a tiny bit or if they 'll blend a few colors to make a dark gray .
As long as the eggs are n't expired you should be fine . I 've made creme brulee many times with both fresh eggs and not so fresh with similar results .
Use a pressure cooker . Try for example this recipe : <URL> where dried hominy is cooked in a pressure cooker .
The only difference between the two is that puree has a little more liquid . You should add more puree than the recipe calls for paste to compensate for it being more dilute . In some recipes , the extra liquid could be a problem , however , I do n't think it will make any difference in pad thai in the quantities that it is used .
The best I can offer you comes from <URL> : The gelation of egg yolk can be partially reversed by heating after thawing . This treatment improves the functional properties of proteins . The stiffness of the gels obtained after frozen storage can be reduced by more than 50 % and become pourable at 21 ° C by heating up to 45 ° C for 1 h. Eggs do n't actually start to set until you hit 63 ° C , so if I had previously-frozen eggs , I would heat them as the above paragraph suggests . Just be very careful not to use too much heat . You wo n't get perfect eggs , but they 'll be edible .
I am happy to give you a brief idea , but you may have to tell me how much info you need Get the lotus leaves from chinese shop and they are usually dried leaves , so you need to soak them in water for a night . After that give it a wash and cut it to the right side sticky rice is a type of rice , so that 's what you need . Do n't use any other rice as they wo n't stick . You will need to soak the rice in water for couple of hours and add couple drops of oil . Prepare whatever you want to put in your rice like mushroom and meat When u make the wrap , put a layer of rice on the leaf and then place the meat and mushroom on the rice . After that put another layer of rice on top and wrap it up Put the wrapped rice to steam and I can not help you with the time , but it 's between 10-20 mins Good luck
The oil needs to be slowly added to the egg , vinegar , and lemon juice base while being vigorously whisked . Only add more when the previous amount has been fully incorporated . I generally add the oil 1/4 cup at a time , dripping it very slowly into the base . Once the initial 1/4 cup has been added and emulsified it becomes a lot easier to incorporate the rest , and you can add it slightly faster , but still 1/4 cup at a time . This is vastly simpler in a food processor . I have a <URL> which has a little white pusher piece with a drip-hole in it . You can simply add the oil into this 1/4 cup at a time , it will slowly drip into the mix . Use the metal blade attachment .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
What Tim said . Eggs just do n't hold very well , and they are very sensitive to temperature -- reheating them basically will mean re-cooking them . I would never store eggs in this manner , because the texture and flavour degradation will make them unpleasant to eat . However , to actually answer your question -- and again , I urge you not to do this because stored and reheated eggs will taste like garbage -- cooked eggs should keep for up to 72 hours in the refrigerator . Remember to chill them as rapidly as possible after cooking , and you may wish to undercook slightly in order to minimize problems when reheating . I would use 72 hours as an absolute maximum , particularly if you are undercooking . 48 hours is probably wiser .
end question
start question
How does one invent a cookie recipe ?
Yes , the original recipes involved an enormous amount of trial and error . People baked , swapped recipes , and the good ones were desirable and became widespread , while the bad ones died out . The advanced knowledge of food chemistry was n't even available at the time - Hannah Glasse published her cookbook more then 100 years before Mendeleev published the periodic table . Luckily , you do n't have to go through the same process if you want to invent a good recipe now . There are only a few basic ingredients in baking - eggs , sugar , flour , water - and you can be sure that all possible ways to combine them , as well as most secondary additions and substitutions , have been thoroughly explored . People have distilled the knowledge of this exploration in books , and you can use this basic knowledge to build new recipes which will function with a high probability . Before you develop a baking recipe , there are four things you have to know . Technique . If you want to create a cookie recipe , you will have to use creaming . If you want to make a new kind of eclair , you have to know how to prepare a basic pate a choux . There are cookbooks teaching these techniques , some of them are explained in questions here on SA . Base ratio . For most baked goods , there are ratios which give you the best results . For example , for a crepe you want 1 part flour , two parts egg and two parts liquid . As long as you keep that , you can let your imagination run free by using different liquids , or adding spices , or even plopping pieces of fruit in the pan and pouring the batter over them . You can learn about this from Ruhlman 's book Ratio , or use a known-good recipe for a plain variant of the good you are trying to make as your starting point . Flavor combinations . You can add any ingredients you want , but there is no guarantee they will work well together . Choosing the right ones is a combination of talent ( being able to imagine what a combination will taste like before you have had it ) and experience . You should try to be more analytical about the flavors of things you eat - which tastes can you distinguish ? Which aromas ? What makes them go well together ? Is it their similarity , or the contrast ? - and when you have done that long enough , you will be able to predict the goodness of a combination . A book to help you along is The Flavor Bible , which describes good combinations . You can also take popular combinations and transfer them across types of food . For example , if you like apple-cinnamon pie , you can try to make cinnamon cookies glued in pairs with apple butter . Ingredients ' structure and their role in the baked good . This knowledge is maybe the least usual among home cooks . When you create new recipes , you will always dilute the base formula , or use substitutions . If you do n't have this knowledge , it will be hit-or-miss whether your new recipe will work or not . It is a bit like rebuilding a house 's interior without knowing which walls are load-bearing and which are n't . If you know what each ingredient does in a recipe , you will know when a substitution is possible and when it is n't . For example , many people will tell you that applesauce is a substitute for eggs . And you can indeed bake a cake with applesauce instead of eggs , but do n't try to whip a mayonnaise with it . This is because eggs have a different role in cake and mayonnaise . Learning about these roles requires a lot of effort , and a curiosity about these things . Most people will find it easier to just try whatever they feel like , and live with the occasional failed new-recipe attempt . If you would rather learn about them , I can recommend two sources . One is Cooking for geeks by Jeff Potter , which is short and does n't go into the depth of things , but offers lots of useful information and is easy to read , or the really exhaustive book called On Food and Cooking by Harold McGee , which runs to about 800 pages and goes into detail most people do n't want to know about , but is a must-read if you are fascinated by food science . And , of course you can always just run into the kitchen and experiment . Do n't forget to document along the way so you can reproduce your results ! Basically , you can always have luck and hit a good new recipe , the knowledge I listed above ( combined with some baking experience ) helps you increase your first-try success rate from about 2-3 % as a full amateur to somewhere about 80 % or more . It is your decision how to divide your time between reading and baking , any combination can function , depending on your learning style .
I do n't think it 's just one thing : The foil reflects radiant heat , meaning that the only remaining way to propogate heat is through conduction and convection . The foil is an impermeable barrier which helps to keep the moist air ( created by boiling off the moisture in the surface of the bread ) near the sandwich , which reduces the rate at which the bread dries out , and we need dry items for them to burn . It 's possible that retention of the moisture within the foil slows the heating of the enclosed system as there 's less loss of thermal mass , but I doubt that 's a significant factor in most situations . You might be able to test which of the other two is the more significant factor by running a test with foil that 's been perforated such that it 's not a good barrier but would still be reflective , and see how that compares .
Inside the rice cooker , there 's a thermostat monitoring the bowl 's temperature ( and kept in firm contact with the bowl via the spring ) . As long as the temperature does n't go above the boiling point of water , the rice cooker keeps cooking . Once it goes slightly above that point , the water must have all boiled off or been absorbed , and that means the rice is done , so the cooker switches to a much lower " keep warm " setting . This approach works only for foods that start wet and are done once the standing water is gone , which is why automatic rice cookers are common but there 's no comparably simple way to automatically cook pasta . Fancy rice cookers can be far more elaborate ( with microprocessors and whatnot ) , but simple rice cookers are very simple indeed , with no timing mechanism at all . This means they rely on putting in an appropriate amount of water for how much rice you are cooking . If you put in too little water , the rice cooker will stop when it 's gone but the rice wo n't be done . If you put in too much , you 'll get overcooked rice . Fortunately , rice is not super sensitive and you do n't have to measure carefully , but you need to get it approximately right . For different amounts of rice , you just have to scale the water accordingly . For lentils or beans , you 'll have to use a different water ratio , and you should look it up for the beans you have in mind ( and to make sure they can be cooked reasonably in a rice cooker in the first place ) ; I do n't know how to predict it from first principles .
Vanilla extract adds the flavour of vanilla ! Not as nice as using a real vanilla bean , but significantly cheaper and much easier to get hold of .
Pickle recipes meant for longer-term storage will include instructions for sealing the jars . While some recipes may have you use hot jars and hot brine that will result in a fairly reliable seal ratio ( meaning most of the jars will properly seal ) , other recipes will have you put the filled and closed jars in a boiling water bath to be processed for a specific amount of time . I 've found this method to yield an even higher ratio of properly sealed jars . In either scenario , the sign of a sealed jar ( assuming you are using canning jars with a lid and ring system ) is an indented dome on the lid . Jars that do not seal properly will still have a protruding dome . Most recipes will have all the specific information you need to make pickles including the shelf life of sealed jars . The Ball canning jar company has a good website : <URL> Best of luck - I hope your pickles are a tasty success !
To have less oxygen and / or other contanminates . Like is used with pumps on wine . Not sure how many foods are negatively effected by oxygen . Potato chips for one . Potatoe chips are also effected by moisture and this is less moisture . According to <URL> fats oxide to produce " off " odors and flavors . Since nuts are sold in sealed bags / jars I suspect they are effected by oxygen . But that may be just for moisture . Found a reference that the oil in nuts will oxidize so low oxygen is good for storage . According to a comment a vacuum also required to create a seal . It kind of makes sense to me but I am not 100 % convinced a vacuum is required for a seal . For sure you are not going to hold a vacuum without a seal . A mod asked me add this information but I do n't feel athoritative here .
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
Good Eats ( Alton Brown ) has some good descriptions of the various difference 's between potatos . He has an <URL> Main thing is the starch content in them . He has an example of each of the three groups ( High , Medium , Low ) , includign a brief description and sample application . He mentions mentions frying in the High Starch content group , specifically Russets . He then has another <URL> , where he actually talks about French Fries and again mentions the Russet ( High Starch ) . While you can make fries out of different types of potatoes ( some of the more " all purpose " potatoes ) , if you want a really good classic french fry , you 're going to want to look for a Russet , with a similar starch content . Here 's a <URL> . Maybe you can look to see what you bought ? The age will probably affect it . A younger potato will in fact be sweeter So , to answer your specific questions . I 'm betting you did in fact buy a potato . It 's probably just a sweeter variety . If it does n't say at the market where you bought it what kind they are , I 'd ask the people who work there . Also , look at the third link I have above , it does have a few pictures as well as good descriptions on what they look like .
Simmering uncovered serves two purposes . The first is liquid reduction . Simmering with a lid on causes condensation on the inside of the lid that will drip back into the food . If you 're trying to reduce the liquid , the steam needs to be able to evaporate away . The second purpose is temperature regulation . With a lid on , the heat wo n't dissipate quickly enough and your food will eventually advance beyond a simmer and potentially throw off what you 're making .
<URL> As Alton describes . As you beat the cream bubbles of air get worked into the mixture . The beating makes the bubbles smaller and smaller until the fat globules touch and the mixture becomes stable . As you mentioned - if you whip it a little more then the fat will coalesce and squeeze out all the water and air and you have butter . Time is a factor in this process ( when done mechanically ) in that it is required for homogeneously sized and distributed bubbles . The fats have to stay plastic . The fact that it can be done very quickly is easily seen with whipped cream chargers . The gas is pressurized into the cream - upon release expands into the tiny bubbles we need . <URL>
Hmm I suppose they add starch to keep it from turning back into one block of cheese . Thing to do is if the sauce looks to thick just add more milk .
Note : This answer goes in a bit more detail than necessary to answer the question . If you truly only care about the hydration , please only read " Water/flour ratio " and " Flavor of the bread " . I have added the other information as well since the effects are similar to that of a change in hydration . I 've frequently baked ( about once to twice a week ) with sourdough for 4 years now . I 'm not a professional . The only thing I can take a bit of pride in is that a professional baker who tested a loaf of my sourdough bread told me that it 's " fantastic , considering the little possibilities available to control the conditions the sourdough and loaf are exposed to at home " . So while far from perfect , I 'd consider my sourdough breads and knowledge pretty good . Most of what I 'm writing now was first read on the internet somewhere and confirmed through testing it with my own sourdough culture ( I 'm still using the same one I started out with ) . Apart from the flour you use , there are several factors that affect the taste of the resulting bread : Temperature This has , in my experience , the biggest impact on the taste . The following rules apply : Anything over 40 ° C is deadly to the microbes in your sourdough . Lower temperature : More acetic acid , less lactic acid , yeasts develop more slowly . Higher temperature : More lactic acid , less acetic acid , yeasts develop more quickly . Lactic acid bacteria prefer temperatures at around 30-35 ° C Yeasts like temperatures around 25 ° C best Note : Your sourdough can be 1-2 ° C warmer than the environment due to microbial activity . That can be important to keep in mind . Water/flour ratio Most of the time , people use a ratio of 1:1 water/flour for the sourdough and that will give you good results , but you can play around with that ratio to change the taste to your liking : Lower water content causes more acetic acid production and less developed yeasts Higher water content will make it easier for the yeasts to grow and increase the lactic acid content I 've found that having more than 1.5 times the amount of water compared to the flour will hardly have any effect on the dough anymore and I 'd recommend stirring the dough every couple of hours with that much water . On single staged sourdough , using less than 0.75 times the water compared to the flour is also not a good idea and you will probably be required to add yeast in the bread dough . Salt and oil Adding these , especially salt , to the sourdough already will have a considerable impact on the sourdough taste . A sourdough made with salt in it will taste quite different from one without it . I 'm not quite sure about why this is , but it may have something to do with the yeasts growing more slowly ( more information below ) . Both salt and oil will slow down the growth of the yeasts , but do n't have much of an effect on the lactic acid bacteria . Adding oil mainly affects the mechanical properties of the dough ( it will be softer and more ductile ) . It also helps with the structure of the bread ( the air bubbles in the bread will be smaller and more uniformly distributed ) , especially in the presence of an emulsifyer ( lard is both fat and an emulsifyer , so it works well in this regard ) . For this reason , it does n't make much sense to add it to the sourdough already . Of course , if the fat is n't tasteless , it will also add to the taste of the bread ( I love using natural olive oil in my wheat breads ) . Flavor of the bread Sourdough actually has some pretty complicated chemistry that I know little about . However , here are some effects that I do know : Lactic acid will give your bread a mild , sour taste . This works very well for wheat breads . Acetic acid gives you a stronger , more sour taste ( very noticable while eating ) . This works great for rye breads The amount of yeast in your sourdough also has a big impact on the smell and taste of the bread . Yeast is beneficial to the bread not only for it 's leavening properties . Apart from CO2 , it also produces ethanol , which will esterify the lactic acid to ethyl lactate over time , which in turn has a strong flavor . Okay I think that 's it . I hope this helps you .
Use the tapioca starch , or , if you can not find that , another tuber starch . It is more waxy than cornstarch , and therefore better suited for a glaze . It will give you a glossy , transparent appearance . Cornstarch is a mealy starch , with high amylopectin content , and creates a soft , fluffy , somewhat cloudy mass , not as glossy or as transparent as waxy starches . By the way , it should n't have an off-taste if you cook it through . I guess that most recipes haunting the Internet use cornstarch because it is so much more common in a home kitchen , and the home bakers found the result good enough for their purposes and/or were not aware that tapioca will give them a better end product . As you describe that you want a really good glaze , go for the tapioca .
This answer assumes the US-type of pancake . There are some pancake recipes with no egg at all . So the question is , what does the egg do in a pancake recipe ? It contributes soem fat and emulsifiers from the yolk , some water , and a bunch of protein ( mostly from the whites ) . This will add structure to the pancake , some eggy flavor and richness , and perhaps somewhat mitigate the danger of toughening the pancake through over mixing , by inhibiting gluten formation ( mostly due to the fat and lecithin from the yolk ) . However , as you have already discovered , the egg is not completely essential to the pancake , which basically a griddled quick bread , and can easily get all of the structure it needs from the gelatinization of the starch from the flour . Adding lots more eggs would start to move you into custard or quiche-like territory , where the product would have a lot more egg flavor , and start to take on a more scrambled-egg type texture depending on how far you go . You will get less flavor but more textural change from using just whites . If you love pancakes , I would make them with any pancake recipe you like , and enhance your protein intake from other food items . Personally , I love a scrambled egg , and they go great with pancakes . Edit : I see in your profile that you are in France . Since we also call French style crepes the same thing in English , I am thinking you probably do mean US style pancakes , so the above would apply . If you are thinking of crepes , they tend to be a touch eggier than pancakes to start with , which helps give them the structure to role or fold easily while still being so thin . I imagine that they could take a bit more egg still , with some change in texture and more egg flavor , but might start to stick to the pan more , as egg really likes to stick . At the extreme end , you would essentially have thin fried scrambled egg , which you can roll up with fillings , as some other cuisines do . Still , I am not an expert on crepes ; I have never made them myself . If that is what you are asking about , hopefully someone else can give you a more knowledgable answer .
I think your ' troubleshooter ' and the desire to know what to do to get a different result ( ' more chew , or a flaky crust , etc ) are definitely one in the same . You 'll need to understand the basic chemistry of bread ( and some critical techniques as well ) . Baking in general is more ( not all ) chemistry than normal cooking . If you throw too much of something in , it may not just taste different , but change the entire critical chemical reaction in the oven . Once that 's cemented in your head , then if your bread does n't rise , you immediately know that its one of a few things . If you want a crisp crust , you 'll know what to add . Its the same knowledge . The best two references that I 've read in regards to this are : <URL> - Its pretty much a classic now and a must read for anybody wanting to get into baking . Its got great chemistry , technique , and recipes in it.This is the book that made MANY things with bread just ' click ' with me . A large chunk of this book deals with sourdough . <URL> - Just like on TV , he goes through the why and the how of everything . It 's a general baking book - not just for bread , but there 's a whole section on dough . I like the techniques and understanding here , but found the recipes to be a bit lackluster . ( He 's got pancake info here too ! ) Additionally , I 'd encourage you to ask specific problems in regards to your bread issue on here . There 's a wealth of knowledge on the site and absorbing some via here would be a perfectly valid resource .
If really want to substitute for that coconut oil in this particular application , you want a pure , relatively flavorless , saturated fat . This will be one that is solid at room temperature . That means commercial shortening , such as the US brand Crisco . Update : cocoa butter itself , of course would be ideal , if you can get it . But , then you would want to temper it . In that case , well , see below ... However , in my opinion : Your best bet , if you are willing to do the necessary work , for a crisp true chocolate coating is to use ... pure chocolate . Nothing else . The trick is to ensure that your chocolate is in temper . ( You can read more about it within the <URL> ) . This means that it is melted and then cooled in such as way as to ensure the cocoa butter forms the most desirable crystals , which have a melting point near mouth temperature , and a smooth , crisp bite . You can google many detailed articles on how to temper chocolate , with many variant methods . For example , here is one from <URL> . For small batches at home , I have found the following method to be very successful , using 100 % real chocolate such as Merkens or Ghirardelli ( or many other brands ) . That is , chocolate that is made of nothing but cocoa butter , cocoa solids , sugar , flavoring , and maybe some lecithen . You do n't want other fats . In general , you should avoid chocolate chips ( which may not be true chocolate ) unless you know your manufacturer actually uses 100 % true chocolate in their chips ( a small number do ) . Break the chocolate up into small chunks ( maybe 1/2 inch or 1 cm in size ) Place in a glass microwave safe bowl . The purpose of the glass bowl is to absorb the heat from the chocolate , and then keep it relatively stable and warm . Place the chocolate in the microwave at very low power . I use level 2 on my microwave . It will take a very long time , maybe 8-10 minutes , even to be partially melted . This is okay . Every so often , stir the chocolate so it is heating fairly evenly . ( The glass bowl also helps by adding thermal mass ... ) Keep microwaving on low , until the chocolate is almost all melted , checking more and more frequently as you get close . When the chocolate is about 90 % melted , take it out and let the residual heat from the bowl and the chocolate melt the rest . Do one last stir , so that the various crystal types and seeds are evenly distributed , just in case some small part of the chocolate went out temper in this process . Again , I emphasize , patience and going slow here is the key . This method trades time for complexity . The key to this method is : commercial chocolate is already in temper . By barely melting it ( and I mean barely ) , we keep it temper . We do n't have to do all the hard stuff with thermometers and carefully regulating the temperature up to melt the bad crystals , then down to seed the good ones and so on . Once you have your tempered melted chocolate , you can use it to coat candies , cookies , or ( one of my favorites ) stir in a crunchy breakfast cereal , coconut flakes , or nuts to make little candies ... the applications are endless .
It comes from two different measurements , typical wine bottle size , and government alcohol regulations Typical wine bottles are 750 ml , and this divides exactly into five or six servings of 150 or 125 ml ( thanks peter ) . So many traditional wine glass serves are " exactly " 150 or 125 ml ( ~ 5 or 4 oz ) depending in which country you live in For typical government regulation , a standard drink is ; a 100 ml glass of table wine , or a 330 ml can of beer , or a 30 ml glass of straight spirits . Each of these contains on average 10 g of alcohol . So many liquor licensing guidelines recommend the serving of wine by 100 ml ( 3.5 oz ) standard drink sizes Governments will use this to produce such amazing guidelines such as : In most western countries the standard drink range is from 8 to 12 g of alcohol , except in the USA where it is super-sized to 14 g Update ; references from <URL> <URL> <URL>
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
It is almost impossible to reduce the sweetness of cookie dough once made , without further reducing the quality . The closest you could come would be to create a second batch of cookie dough ingredients with reduced sugar , and combine it with your existing dough . However , it will be difficult to achieve good integration of the two batches , and even if you do , the extra working of the first batch from the mixing will create additional gluten , making tougher cookies . In this case , you might want to try some sort of tart lemon glaze or perhaps a very bittersweet chocolate icing to compliment your cookies and reduce the impression of sweetness . On the other hand , except for butter , sugar cookies contain no expensive ingredients . It may not be worth trying to salvage this batch . In the end , this is probably a lesson learned that your particular recipe is not to your liking as is . Next time , you will want to either reduce the sugar , or use another recipe .
My friend makes coconut crusts all the time and she bakes them at 350 degrees . But AllRecipes.com bakes their crust at 325 degrees for 15 minutes .
end question
start question
Wok and electric hob - which ring to use ?
The larger ring will transmit more energy , but spread over the size of the ring ; so the density is probably roughly the same . So using an element bigger than your pot/wok bottom is basically just a waste of heat/energy . Some supporting evidence added by DMA57361 : I 've recently gotten a free energy monitor , which tells me the current power consumption of my entire home . So , with a bit of experimentation , I have worked out the approximate power output of each ring on my hob , and this backs up that they have approximately the same output density .
Have you heard of the <URL> ? If you drop a bit of water on a very hot pan , the water floats around on its own cushion of steam , thus not touching the pan at all . Similar things happen when you sear meat on a pan . The steam keeps the food from bonding with the pan . In general you should n't cook meat on a medium heat . Generally you want to cook meat either on a screaming hot pan/skillet with a heavy bottom , or low and slow . Rarely in between . I have no science to back this up , but watching a documentary on Francis Mallmann , who cooks over wood fires , claim that when the meat first touches the grill it sticks , but once the Maillard reaction occurs the meat begins to unstick . He says he hates it when people touch the meat and move it around , and that its best to just leave it be until its ready to be flipped . People associate cooking things very hot with burning them . But in reality getting a nice sear requires very high heat , which creates many of the flavor compounds in the food we eat . You 're more likely to burn or overcook something at a lower heat , because you 're cooking out all the moisture slowly then it begins to burn the entire thing very rapidly , rather than browning the outside . Which could also make the food stick to the pan .
The device is called a " panini press " and they 're available fairly small . I 've seen ones which are n't much larger than a toaster .
Notice how dogs enjoy gnawing on bones ? Ever been to a restaurant where they serve bone marrow ? Boiling bones in water draws flavor out of them . Most canned broth and stock you buy -- beef stock , chicken stock , etc -- is just this -- water boiled with bones for hours . Most literature I 've read suggests using raw bones , but some recipes call for roasted bones -- the ones I 've seen most often involve roasted veal bones . I 've also made stock from roasted chicken bones . The stock does still take on flavor . It 's easier to get good flavor from unused bones , though . Additionally , I 've found another pitfall . I 've tried to make stock from the leftover bones of bbq 'd ribs . This was not a good idea . The broth had a savory flavor , as intended . Unfortunately it also had the background taste of bbq sauce . Now , when I do make stocks , I 'd consider using leftover bones , but there have to be enough bones leftover ( otherwise I get very little stock for my time or it 's weak on flavor ) the bones ca n't be " tainted " by other flavors ( like bbq sauce ) To answer your original question , try this : start with a pot of plain water put about 4 lb of bones in per gallon of water while it 's still cold , add ~ 1 tsp of vinegar per gallon of water Once the water comes to a boil , lower the heat so that it 's just simmering this keeps the stock from getting cloudy/white ( which does n't taste bad , just looks worse ) leave boiling for about 6-8 hours , minimum . Longer is fine , but you wo n't get too much more at this point . turn off heat , allow stock to cool fully , strain it for the bones , refrigerate you can speed up this step by putting the pot in a sink full of cool water do NOT put a hot pot in your fridge . It will heat up the fridge significantly and just make the food in there go bad . Use this to make soups make sauces ( reduce it first ) as a substitute for water in savory dish preparations ( i.e. make rice with stock instead of water . Be creative here ) The main benefits here are flavor and nutrients , but I just do it for the flavor . Cutting bones up does improve the extraction process , but if the marrow is exposed already ( most beef/veal bones will be ) you 're fine . If you save old bones , freeze them until you have enough . Do n't bother trying to make stock with the bones from one chicken .
For steaks I really prefer cooking butter instead of oils , I find that the flavor fits the meat better .
The difference between a santuko and European chef 's knife is mostly a matter of personal taste and style . However , if you live in North America , Europe , or anywhere else with a European cooking tradition , most of the resources and videos that you see to help you develop knife skills will assume you have a chef 's knife . For this reason , I suggest you start with a good basic chef 's knife . Secondly , you will want a paring knife . With these two knives , you can do 95 % of kitchen tasks very well . As you develop your skills , you can try santukos and other style blades and determine if the work for you .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
I understand the intent of the advice to always keep meat and vegetable preparation tools and areas separate is to establish a habit , to avoid the possibility of cross contamination in cases where you are not going to be cooking the vegetables as much or at all ; and similarly in a catering environment to be able to visibly demonstrate that working practices are such that cross contamination can not occur .
Bear in mind that I 'm using an electric kettle , rather than a stove-top one . First , the advantage of a kettle is that it is quite efficient , and turns itself off once the water is boiling . This as opposed to the microwave , which only stops after a set time , rather than relying on the condition of the water . Second , a microwave can cause water to superheat , particularly in a ceramic or glass container . This means that there is a certain risk that the water will " jump out " at you once you add something to it or put a spoon in . Additionally , most kettles have more power than the average microwave , so the kettle is probably faster to boil water .
Each variety of chile has a subtly different flavor , but generally the kind to use is determined by how spicy you want the dish to be ; spicier dishes need hotter peppers , otherwise you end up with a dish dominated by the peppers . For this reason , most people sort chiles by their spiciness , measured in Scoville Heat Units <URL> . The exact same papers can be used for Mexican and Indian cooking , as long as you want similar spiciness . To give options , I like to keep 3 kinds of dried peppers : a mild paprika , a standard hot pepper , and a ground , smoked one . The sweet paprika is for savor , the hot pepper to add spiciness , and ground , smoked peppers bring that distinctive smoky flavor to dishes . I usually use de Arbol pepper flakes ( about 30k SHU ) to add heat , and smoked hot paprika for smoked stuff . When I have a dish that showcases the flavor of a specific pepper , it 's time to get fresh ones from the store . For general purpose cooking , many people use mild paprika to add sweet , smoky flavors to Italian , French , Spanish , and Balkan cuisines . Generally these are of the Capsicum annuum species . Indian , Szechuan Chinese , and Central American cuisine normally use moderately hot peppers , in the 10-30k SHU heat range . Cayenne , tabasco , and de Arbol peppers are good examples . Thailand ( and some parts of India ) use very hot peppers up to 100k Scoville , called Bird 's Eye or Thai chiles . These peppers may be either Capsicum annuum ( normally milder ) or Capsicum frutescens ( normally hotter ) . Finally , Mexico and northeastern India use the hottest peppers of the Capsicum chinense species , including habaneros and the naga jolokia , which go from 100k SHU to 750k SHU . Mexico is a special case , because many varieties of pepper are mixed to get the desired flavor . Everything from bell peppers to habaneros gets regular use , and may be used smoked or dried .
The most common preparation is tomato sauce and parmesan cheese . Of course , some Americans will tell you that the only truly American way to eat spaghetti is to top it with chili , then shredded cheddar cheese , then chopped onions , then red kidney beans . It 's hard to fully express the majesty of this dish , and should only be enjoyed on special occasions , like the Super Bowl . In Canada ( which I consider to be basically " American " ) , it 's also fairly common to add or replace the tomato sauce with pesto sauce . Soft goat cheese is another common additive . Perhaps these sound " Italian " but I 'd consider an Italian pasta to be something more like a bolognese , carbonara , alfredo , or even the trusty old butter/olive oil and parmesan cheese . You 'll almost never see tomato sauce combined with pesto sauce in an authentic Italian restaurant ( or in Italy ) , but it 's common in American home cooking .
No one device , manual or electric , is ideal for all of the tasks that you have enumerated . Many cooks will have more than one tool , depending on the job at hand . Some spices , particularly cinnamon , are very difficult to grind effectively at home without leaving fibrous bits that may give an unpleasant mouth feel . Of course , when infusing flavor from a whole stick of cinnamon , this is not an issue . Bottom Line I would recommend having at least a Microplane type grater for ginger , garlic , and so on , and a rotary type electric grinder for most hard spices . For the specialty task of making peanut butter , a blender is probably your best tool . Morter and Pestle Also known as a molcajete , is probably the most versatile , but most labor intensive spice grinding tool . Can grind , mash , or mix both dry or wet items , so it is suitable for garlic and ginger ; still it is most effective on very hard , frangible spices which can be crushed , or soft items like garlic which can be mashed . Fibrous spices like cumin can be very difficult to do . Lots of work Only suitable for small quantities Microplane style grater A grater with very fine , usually etched , openings is suitable for some tasks including : Garlic , gingner , galangal and the like Nutmeg Nutmeg Grinder A specialty item , just for nutmeg . Most nutmeg grinders actually make very fine shavings , but it is essentially the same thing . They also have storage for nutmegs . Blender Electric blenders are suitable for some grinding tasks : Making peanut butter Grinding soft spices or making wet spice mixtures , as with garlic , ginger , capiscum type peppers Some high quality blenders may also do a decent job with softer seeds like cumin seeds . Electric rotary grinder These are often marketed as coffee grinders , but they are extremely effective as spice grinders -- however , due to lingering flavors , you want to devote one to either coffee or to spices . Suitable for dry spices , such as cumin , black pepper , allspice , mustard seeds , and so on . Not very effective for the hardest spices , such as cinnamon . Note that clove oil ( also found to some extent in nutmeg ) can cloud plastic parts over time . Pepper Grinder As the name implies , ideal for black pepper , but also effective on other small spices that can fit through the mill such as mustard seeds . Also provides a small quanitity of storage . Most permit the grind size to be adjusted . Specific Questions Which kind of grinders allow water in them for making a paste of the spices ? Mortar and pestle , and blenders are suitable for pastes . However , you can also grind your dry spices , and then add them to a wet mixture to create a paste . Is there some maximum and minimum capacity for each of the type of grinders ? Most home style devices are suitable only for very small quantities . The nutmeg and pepper grinders are good for teaspoon type quantities , and rotary grinders up to a few tablespoons . Blnders have much higher capacities , but may not be effective except with very soft or frangible items . Peanut butter is one application that they do well with in larger quantities . What are the types of manual grinders which do not require too much amount of manual power/effort ? They all require significant effort . For spices used in very small quantities , such as black pepper , that may not be noticeable . Which kind of grinders allow us to have a fine powder of spices rather than bits ? None of the home methods will produce the very fine , even powder that you might expect from a commercial spice house . They have extremely high quality , sometimes specialized equipment , and they also sieve or screen the resulting product to ensure it is uniform , and to exclude larger bits . Some spices are more suitable for home grinding than others . Ones that you should have little trouble with include black pepper , nutmeg , allspice , mustard seed . Spices that are very difficult to grind at home include cinnamon . Cumin , one of the most popular spices , is easy to grind , but difficult to get a perfectly smooth and uniform powder . It tends to have little threads and fibrous bits . In many applications this is not noticeable .
One of my favorite topics , having grown up close to two apple orchards ... Most likely , by " quick-cooking , " the recipe intends you to use a pie or sauce apple , i.e. one that softens readily with heat . Sauce apples . Use these for a pie if you like VERY soft pie contents . Personally , I prefer applesauce that has some chunks in it , so I do n't use " sauce apples " for sauce ; however , the standard is to list for sauce those apples that practically dissolve ( like McIntosh ) . Pie apples . An apple listed for pie is typically one that retains its shape but softens well ( like Cortland , Mutsu , Empire , Jonagold , or Fuji ) . Consider the taste . Some apples ( Gala , for example ) lose a lot of flavor when cooked , and are best for eating raw . Others gain tremendous flavor when cooked ( Empire ) . Which apple to use is certainly a matter of preference . Some people like their pie apples to remain quite firm ( using , say , Granny Smith ) , while others like them to be VERY soft ( and thus use a " sauce " apple ) . Here 's some apple lists/charts ... I 'd say look up the varieties readily available to you , and see which ones are listed for sauces or pies . <URL> <URL> Look up the website for your local orchard - they may link to a usage chart for the apples they grow !
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
I believe the unspecified context of this question is cooking in an oven or microwave . No matter what your cooking method , the heat is introduced at the outside of the food : Microwaves only penetrate a short distance ; the rest of the cooking through to the center is by conduction ( or convection , if the food is liquid ) Conduction/convection in an oven only interact with the surface of the food Radiant heat ( infrared essentially ) , one of the main cooking modes in an oven , again only affects the surface By creating a ring shape , if it is practical , you create more surface for the heating modality to interact with the food . This is the reason for an angel food cake pan or bundt pan having a tube at the center -- it allows more surface area to be involved in the cooking process . Also , with the metal pan , the metal has a higher conductivity of heat than does air . This is why parts of the cake in contact with the pan ( or a non-insulated metal cookie sheet , or whatever ) generally brown more than the parts exposed to the air . However , in practice except for things cooked in tube pans , I would n't really worry about this affect . If you can stir occasionally , it becomes close to moot . Note that in pan frying or sauteing or or griddling or stir frying ( depending on the term used in context ) , the main surface area that is relevant is the bottom of the food , that which is contact with the pan . A ring does n't help much here , compared to spreading the food out . I looked at the first part of that thread . It does not seem to be a hot bed of science and knowledge of cookery .
It 's possible that it 's designed to conduct less heat from the bottom . Many gas ovens have the flue in the bottom and the heating is only from below in the oven . To make things more even , most electric ovens have an element at the top and one on the bottom . Speaking of bottom , the bottom line is that you should be ok . If you find the bottom of you cake not being done very well , move the form to a lower rack next time .
When you 're grilling food at high temperatures on a barbeque most of the smoke comes from fat that strikes the hot surface of the coals/vapourizer . It 's only when you 're slowly barbequing food , cooking it at cool temperatures , that the difference becomes important . With a gas or electric barbeque you 'll need to add a source of smoke ( eg . wood in a smoker box ) if you want to add any smokey flavour . Even with charcoal it 's normal to add wood to the coals in order to increase the amount of smoke . When cooking on an indoor griddle or frying pan , unless something goes seriously wrong , there 's usually no smoke so the flavour will different than when grilling on any sort of barbeque .
Tomato puree is concentrated tomato . So where it is called for in conjunction with other tomato products , be they fresh or tinned , it is an attempt to increase the tomato flavour/presence in the dish without increasing the bulk or water inherent in less concentrated products . Additionally the flavour of puree , having gone through a reduction process is somewhat different , more intense and rich than straight tomatoes . Indeed , canned tomatoes tend to be surrounded with juice that is more reduced than would occur naturally . Which is part of why they are used against fresh tomatoes .
Common names of plants are a very unclear matter . There are big differences not only between languages , but also regional differences within a single language . There are lots of ( closely related ) plants which are sold under the name blueberry . And probably not even the person who grew ( or gathered ) them can tell you the exact species . While it does matter when it comes to jam ( for the same reason it matters whether you use Roma tomatoes or Cherry tomatoes for a sauce ) it is highly improbable to find a source which can consistently provide you with a specific known variety . Also , you probably have to study some very specified botanical literature and be provided with parts of the plant other than the berries in order to be able to identify the type with some degree of accuracy . On the other hand , do n't let that come in the way of good jam . Blood orange marmelade may taste different than bitter orange marmelade , but both are good . The same goes for blueberries : you can use any variety , even if some of them would be a bit better on their own . What you need for a jam is a good sweetness to acid ratio , the proper amount of pectin , and as much aroma as possible . A softer texture also helps to prevent unpleasant lumps . So generally , you want to go with the ripest fruit available . They are soft , and have the fullest aroma . This is something you might want to consider with your current source of berries : maybe they 're not a special " green on the inside " variety , but only underripe . If they do n't taste very sweet , and their aroma is n't very complex , I 'd try to find other sources . Farmer 's markets and organic stores are usually able to sell much better fruits ( because they cater to a picky , price-inelastic clientelle ) , but of course they cost a lot too . Sweet fruit is always good , but you need enough sugar added for food safety . A ratio of 2:1 ( fruit to sugar ) can still be kept in the pantry , more fruit than that and you need to refrigerate the unopened glasses too . With blueburries , you 'll need to add both pectin ( to get the jam to gel ) and acid ( to get the pectin to work ) . This is the part which will vary with fruit variety : more watery types will need more pectin , and less acidic types will need more acid . If you want a good quality jam , you 'll need to do some experiments until you get the proportions right . If not , you can buy " jam sugar " or however it is called in your country - this is sugar with pectin and acid already added . It wo n't have the perfect ratio for your fruit , but it will more or less work . But then , if this quality is enough for you , you can skip buying the expensive berries and slaving at the stove , and buy manufactured jam .
I own the same book and was similarly surprised when I read that instruction , but in the section on ingredients , the author does mention a particular variety of onions called pink onions . The mention is on pg . 32 , and there is a picture of a pink onion on the upper left of pg . 34 . Here 's an excerpt from pg . 32 : " The longer the onions are fried , the browner they will get and the deeper the color of the curry will be ... When the onions are fried until only light pink in color , they will impart a sweetish taste to the curry . Certain varieties of onion , like Spanish onions , are too sweet to be appropriate for curry-making . The most appropriate from the taste point of view are the French and the small pink English . " From <URL> I 've never seen pink onions in any of the local markets ( in northwestern US ) , I used white onions and sauteed them just to the point of browning . The recipe turned out fine , but it 's a lot of onion . ( The recipe calls for 2 large onions , finely chopped . It 's a recipe that produces 2 servings . ) Personally , I 'd go a little lighter on the amount of onion or use yellow onions ( despite the author 's recommendation against Spanish onions ) , but that is just personal preference from a Western palate . Note : it looks like the current printing of the book is different from the one I own , so the page numbers I cite may be off , but if you search inside the book ( on Amazon ) for " pink onion " you can see the page I 've cited and the picture of what the author calls a pink onion .
end question
start question
Alternative to pan frying fish fillet ?
Grilling/broiling would be a good alternative to pan frying , as the more intense heat will crisp the skin much more effectively than baking . It is a generally healthier cooking method because the food is not sitting in oil ; any fat will drip off into the grill pan .
If you 're looking for alcoholic alternatives then you could use O'Mara 's or some other brand ( see <URL> for a good list ) . A light coffee liquer could also serve as a workable alternative . On the non-alcoholic side , Irish Cream flavored coffee creamers would work well . Coffee syrups like Monin 's or Torani 's also have Irish Cream flavors . I personally like Monin syrups because they 're all natural .
I would have tried using semolina , polenta , or grits . If the grind was too big you could always use a small coffee grinder to get it a bit finer . Corn muffin mix generally has other additives like sugar , baking powder or soda , so you probably would n't have wanted to use that on the outside of your bagels !
The standard way to cook salt cod for dishes where you want to really remove the saltiness , such as brandade , is to soak it ( for hours ) in a couple of changes of water , and then simmer it in milk for half an hour to an hour . This might work with the mackerel . Not sure what you 'd use it for after that , though .
Do you mean sautee ? Or deep fry ? Typical deep fry recipe would be to incorporate spices into the flour : add your salt , pepper , paprika , etc to the batter , then fry . If you sautee , your chicken strips should be seasoned like follows : first , rub in a small to medium amount of kosher salt ( not table salt ) . Let sit for 15 + minutes to season / brine the meat . Best would be a water brine , but I 'm guessing that 's too fussy for you . Now , cook up the chicken strips in the pan . Most dry spices I could imagine adding could go in towards the end of the sautee , stuff like cayenne and so on . Garlic or onions would be added first before the chicken , and cooked until soft , but not too brown .
The way restaurants do it is simple , straightforward , and also very easy to make organic by using organic ingredients . Standard 3-bowl breading 1 ) Bowl One : Seasoned flour -- flour , salt , pepper , and seasonings ( for me : thyme , paprika , cayenne , garlic powder , onion powder , and parsley flakes ) 2 ) Bowl Two : Egg wash -- Beaten egg with a 1-2 TBSP milk per egg yolk added 3 ) Bowl Three : Panko ( or other bread crumbs ) -- alternately , add some salt , pepper , and seasonings to them Procedure : Dredge the item to bread through the bowls in order , then repeat if desired to build up a thicker layer . You only need to change your seasonings to switch from breading chicken , fish , or even doing fried green tomatoes . If you make your own bread and breadcrumbs , the ingredient list will read : flour , water , milk , eggs , yeast , salt , and spices . Hard to get more straightforward than that ! It 's simple , fast , and works beautifully every time . Here 's why it 's the best way : the flour sticks to the wet surface of your item , leaving a dry , starchy surface for the egg wash to adhere to . The egg wash allows the panko to stick . For the next layer , the flour fills in the gaps between bread crumbs and absorbs residual moisture from the egg wash .
One piece at a time ? Into the bag , shake to coat , out of the bag , shake to remove excess flour , put aside for subsequent egg-washing and breading once all pieces are done . Also helps to have one hand only touching dry ingredients , the other only wet .
Yes , a grill pan will help some , for the very reason you have already identified in the question . Another advantage to a grill pan is charming grill marks . I do n't think that 's your best solution . If you like a serious sear on your steak , I do n't think you can do better than a wickedly hot cast-iron skillet . ( more on that : <URL> ) To mitigate spatter , I recommend a <URL> . The surface is a fine mesh screen , it allows free exchange of air , but holds grease in the pan and away from your walls .
There are two safe ways to defrost , one more rapid than the other . First method is to defrost in the refrigerator . This keeps temperature below 40 degrees F , in the safe zone . This will , also , take a while . Second method is to defrost in the sink under cold running water . The water does n't have to run rapidly , but it should change regularly . This will defrost the fish more rapidly than in the air ( water is a better conductor of heat than air ) and will keep the fish in the danger zone for the shortest period of time . If you are not going to cook it immediately , then return to the refrigerator . If you are deep frying , there are some techniques that will allow you to go direct from frozen to fried , but that is generally done in a professional kitchen where they have powerful fryers that can take the temperature hit and come back strong .
You ask about coating , but it is actually not very important . There are other criteria with much higher priority when you are making caramel or other types of candy . The important thing about pan when making caramel is even heating . Especially when making your caramel dry , you can not afford hot spots , because you can not stir . But if you are taking the candy into the later caramel stages , even heating becomes important for syrup-started candy too . You need a responsive pan if you are making caramel . Sadly , the most evenly heating pans are also the least responsive and vice versa . I would never make caramel on a resistive stove in iron , but I use a small enamelled Dutch oven for caramel on my induction plate . A good sandwiched steel with an aluminum core should offer a decent tradeoff between evenness and responsiveness on most stove types . You also need the correct size pan . If your caramel is less than 1 cm deep , it is very hard to handle without burning it . If it is deeper than 5 cm , there is too much of a heat gradient in the depth . Choose the pan diameter such that your caramel depth will be between 1 and 5 cm roughly . If you are going to add any kind of liquid to the caramel ( or butter ) , you 'll experience lots of foam . You need a deep walled vessel to catch this foam . Use a deep sauce pan or a small pot instead of a frying pan . You want 10 cm wall above the caramel level . Aside from a seasoned cast iron pan , I have n't experienced a coating adsorbing flavors . PTFE , ceramic , enamel , anodized alu or no coating - none of them matters . Use whatever you have handy . For cleaning , follow Elendil 's advice for dissolving the smears in hot water .
For your application you may want to use agar . It is easy to find , gels at room temperature , and will remain so to about 90C . The acidity of the orange juice will slowly ( a few days ) break down the agar , but it should give you enough time for a dish . Other agents include : sodium alginate carrageenan xantham gum A good description of the gelling agents from a cooking perspective can be found in the sites on molecular gastronomy such as tech blog of the <URL> or <URL>
Grana padano and pecorino romano are two other very savory , hard grating cheeses that work well on pasta . They taste a bit different than Parmigiano-Reggiano , but are quite good in their own right and often less expensive . You can also look at parmesan type cheeses that are not actually Parmigiano-Reggiano . For example , Whole Foods often has one from Argentina that offers a reasonable price/performance tradeoff . All of that said , in many people 's opinion , nothing is really quite as delicious as true Parmigiano-Reggiano .
Chefs are really fast at cooking . It 's what they do . A chef can almost effortlessly crack an egg with one-hand in about a second . Scrambled eggs would be pre-cracked and beaten prior to the cooking-shift .
Milk proteins , mostly . And some sugars that have been caramelized . This is an example of what one chef I know describes as " <URL> , " and is much like what happens when you sear a steak on the grill .
Reducing the amount of charcoal used in the Orion Cooker and cooking longer can produce a more tender result . Specifically , using 6 lb of a 12.5 lb bag of charcoal and cooking for 120 minutes for 3 racks produced ribs that were not quite as tender as desired , but much better than the normal Orion recipe ( 12.5 lb of charcoal for 70 minutes ) . The temperature profile was as follows : The above shows that the meat temperature was held between 195 and 205 for 60 minutes . This profile is not optimal for the most tender ribs , so additional changes toward lower/slower may improve the result . Note that the charcoal reduction required a minor modification to the equipement since unless the charcoal is adjacent to the Cooker 's wall , the wood chips will not smoke . The modification is shown in a you tube video entitled " Orion Cooker Charcoal Saving Mod And Improved Tender Rib Cooking " ( <URL> ) .
As long as you complete the salmon 's cooking in the sauce , it 's fine . If you 're not sure when the salmon 's done by your method , I 'd suggest completing its cooking in the microwave as directed by the package and then adding it to the pasta and sauce just before preparing to serve the dish .
Trout - fried in butter with almond chips . Simple , quick , utterly sublime ...
Place on non-stick sprayed foil ; broil for ~ 4 minutes in oven with some source of moisture or a glaze over top ( ie , you might take salmon and add a soy/mustard glaze ) to protect hydration levels .
If you are looking to fry veggies then yes it is nessassary to pre heat . If you put them in a cold pan and oil you start ' sweating ' the veggies not frying them . For example : a sliced onion put into a pan with hot oil will cook and have a nice golden brown color as it caramalizes . Put that same sliced onion in a cold pan with cold oil and then add heat the onion first turns translucent and looses moisture . Both of these cooking methods have their uses , but they are different . How do you know when the oil is ready to cook ? It will start to shimmer a little before it reaches the smokeing point . put the vegies in when you see this shimmer , or at the very fisrt wisp of smoke .
" Sushi grade " means that it is safe to prepare and eat raw . In order to do that , it must be frozen to kill any parasites . That means it either has to be : Frozen at -20 ° C ( -4 ° F ) for 7 days ; or Frozen at -35 ° C ( -31 ° F - " flash frozen " ) for 15 hours . There are n't any official regulations about the fish itself or its quality , and most sushi/sashimi distributors have much more stringent rules of their own beyond the freezing guarantee .
end question
start question
How much black garlic to substitute for regular garlic in a slow-cooker ?
Black garlic is not a substitute for regular garlic , you add black garlic to get a different result . I would never say use 2 cloves of black garlic for every 1 regular or any other ratio because the changes are so fundamental that they really are totally different ingredients . The question is how much black garlic flavor you want , and only you can answer that . I 'd suggest that you taste it when it 's close to being done and if you want more add more then .
So ... I was always taught that you remove it because it 's bitter . I generally remove it if it 's big enough . However , there seems to be some contention as to whether this is true ( and to what degree it 's true ) . See : <URL> and <URL> In short , there are mixed teachings as to whether you should remove it . But essentially the germ DOES affect the taste of garlic . Some call it bitter , some call it " more garlicky " . Ruhlman suggests that if you 're hitting it with heat immediately , then there is n't a point in removing it . If he 's doing something that will have the garlic sitting around , then he does n't . From this what I 'd suggest ( and what I 'm going to try doing from now on ) is to ignore it and if you notice a difference in taste , or more importantly find the result objectionable . then take it out next time . Otherwise do n't bother as you wo n't know the difference .
I ca n't give a specific temperature , as there 's issues : The sharpness is a chemical reaction which mix when the garlic cells are damaged . Cooking the garlic before damaging the cells will convert the chemicals before they 've had a chance to react . Cooking the garlic after the chemical reaction will also remove the sharpness . I 've never tried taking the temperature of garlic as it 's cooking Now , if you 're cooking the garlic cloves ahead of time ( I roast a couple of bulbs at a time , then squeeze out the cloves into small jar and keep it in the fridge ) . It 'll take 30min to an hour , depending on what temperature you 're roasting at ( 350-400F ; I 'll throw it in with something else ... not worth heating the oven just for garlic ) If cooking after you 've cut it , it 'll only take a quick saute as you have more surface area ( maybe 1 to 2 min , depending on pan temp ) -- but be careful , as overcooking garlic will burn it , which is just nasty . And do n't do it in a dry pan , unless you 're planning on ruining your dinner . When it 's golden , you 're done ... do n't let it get to brown , as brown is that stage right before black and time to clean the pan before starting again . Also , it seems counter-intuitive , but finely minced garlic is more potent than coarsely chopped garlic , as you 're doing more damage to the garlic . It wo n't help in this particular case , but in many dishes that just want the garlic flavor without being overpowering will use more garlic , but slice it rather than mincing , saute it in olive oil , then remove the garlic pieces , and use the garlic-infused oil for the dish . ... So , anyway , not not exactly answer the questions ... I 'd go with low and slow cooking ... specific temperatures are going to lead to fast cooking garlic , which gets you burnt garlic and ruined dishes . In dishes where you can , infuse the oil , then remove the garlic . And if you really have to , there 's always garlic powder .
It depends on what you mean by gluten-free flour . If you are buying a gluten-free flour mix that it labeled for all-purpose use then you should be able to substitute that and get a reasonably good result . Substituting straight rice or almond flour in a standard recipe will not work well , because the mixes have a blend of ingredients designed to make it perform similar to flour . It may take some recipe/flour experimentation to get it as close to what you are used to , but will definetly make something edible . There are also various almond-flour based pancake recipes which work well .
It seems that temperatures in excess of 250 ° F for an extended period of time will destroy a significant percentage of the botulism spores but I can not find a definitive , science based answer on botulism spore death . <URL> when stored in vinegar , so I would assume the pH will not carry enough weight . As long as it 's in the refrigerator , you 've got a few days , at least . How much are you making at one time ? You can <URL> and keep it for months that way . Googling suggests that freezing peppers in oil is a common technique , too , so you should be able to store the entire thing in the freezer for months . You could make a large batch and freeze them in ready-to-use portions and be confident that your food is safe .
A standard ratio of dried seasoning to fresh is 1 part dried to 3 parts fresh . For garlic specifically the ratios are slightly different : 1/2 teaspoon minced garlic 1/4 teaspoon dried garlic 1 clove garlic 1/8 teaspoon garlic powder
You rub the garlic in the pot to gain a subtle garlic flavour . Same idea as rubbing a sliced garlic clove on grilled bread , or on meat prior to cooking . Raw garlic is also moderately antibacterial in nature , so I suppose that could be a reason too .
Garlic will spoil faster in the fridge actually . I do n't know how long it will last in the fridge , but I understand that it lasts longer if you leave it in a cool , dark , dry storage . I believe one reason is that your fridge is generally too humid . In my experience , garlic kept in the fridge is also more likely to develop mould ( goes soft , and dark discolouration ) . I keep mine in a ceramic thing in one of my cupboards . It lasts anywhere from a few weeks to a few months depending on the garlic ( probably how long it sat before getting to my kitchen ) . If you store it like that , garlic that goes " bad " will usually start to sprout ( green shoots , will come through the top .
Taste-wise there will be little to not difference in the result . Just be careful to use the proper ratio of garlic to salt ( generally 3-to-1 salt to garlic powder ) .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
Yes , it is different . Does it matter ? It depends . If you 're going to use garlic in a stew or anything else that would ' dissolve ' the regular garlic anyway , it does n't really matter all that much in my opinion . If you want to preserve the texture and/or create a more ' urgent ' garlic flavour in short-cooked food , I 'd go with fresh . Sidenote : most of the prepared garlic comes with additives , consider if you want to have those as a part of your diet . As for keeping time once opened : no worries really - bacteria really do n't like garlic all that much , so refrigerated you should have no problems hitting 6 + months .
Dupe , but a good question . See Satanicpuppies answer here : <URL> I know you asked re : cranberry sauce specifically , but this is a great article regarding the differences in sugars , generically , which might help in the future : " Sugar can be a single molecule made up of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen -- like glucose and fructose . Other sugars , like sucrose , or white table sugar , are made up of multiple molecules ( in this case , one glucose and one fructose ) , tied together with chemical bonds . Now , when sucrose is heated with an acid , it breaks back down into the two smaller sugars , glucose and fructose , resulting in something we call invert sugar . This small chemical change makes a big difference : While sucrose is hygroscopic , invert sugar is even more water-loving . And this can make a tremendous difference when , say , you want to bake a chewy , rather than crunchy , cookie . " <URL>
Typically garlic is used . If you prefer onions and garlic , go ahead but it 's typically cucumber , yogurt , dill , garlic , lemon juice or vinegar , olive oil , salt , pepper , and sometimes sour cream .
According to <URL> , a very common yeast brand in the US : The strip contains three packets ; each packet in the strip is considered one package . Each package contains 1/4 oz . or 2 1/4 teaspoons of yeast . This is approximately 7 grams , or 11 ml . This is representative of all of the US brands .
I 've only had red amaranth , so apologies if that is distinct from the type you have access to . As I recall , spinach is a bit sweeter and the leaves are a bit softer so they break down more readily . Also I believe the stem on spinach is less fibrous . That said , they are both leafy greens and I 've yet to find a recipe so touchy that one leafy green ca n't be substituted for another .
I 've noticed that salty food has somewhat of an addictive quality ; people who eat a lot of it ( i.e. fast food or other processed food ) tend to bury their meals under a mountain of salt , whereas people such as myself who do a lot of home cooking hardly use ( or want ) any . " Season to taste " means pretty much what it sounds like ; add however much salt ( and other spices ) that you , personally , like the taste of . If you have a habit of eating a lot of salty foods , then you might want to add a little less than that , for the benefit of people like me who gag at heavily-salted foods . If you use a lot of other spices , you wo n't need much salt - a few shakes of the shaker is enough . If the food is basically bland aside from the salt ( and maybe pepper ) , then you 'll need to use more . The best thing to do is add a little , then taste , and repeat as many times as it takes to get the flavour you want . If the food you 're seasoning is still raw ( and ca n't be eaten raw ) , then just put in a small amount the first time you make it and keep track of how much table salt you needed to add . Just remember , you can always add salt later , but a dish that 's too salty is permanently ruined .
It sounds like something is wrong with your slow cooker . On low , it should hit somewhere in the 190s , on high in the low 200s . On high , I 'd expect it to get there fairly quickly -- within two hours . Both should get you to 140 within an hour . That said , the actual safety temperature ( with a good thermometer ) is 130 or 131F . 135 or 140F leave some safety margin for not completely accurate thermometers , maybe missing the coldest part of the food by a little bit , etc. . And the standard is you have 2 hours to get there ( used to be 4 ) . So , unfortunately , " it seemed like 2 -- 3 hours " makes it really hard to answer if you exceeded that . I 'm not qualified to tell you exactly how much risk ( if any ) you 'd be taking if it took 3h . But I can make some suggestions for keeping the time to 140F down : Start with warmer water . There is a trade-off ; hot water is supposed to make a more cloudy stock . If you simmered the water on the stove first ( or in a tea kettle , etc. ) , then your time to 140 will be very short . Even starting with room temperature water instead of cold water is ten or twenty degrees closer . You could also , as Joe suggests , start with less water and add hot water later on to bring it up to the desired quantity ( but do n't underfill the slow cooker ) . Make sure your ingredients are defrosted ( in the fridge ) . Melting something takes extra energy ; this is known as the <URL> . For ice , it 's a lot of energy -- going from ≈ 32 ° F ice to ≈ 32 ° F water is about as much energy as it 'll take to get it from there to 175 ° F . If nothing else works , bring it to a simmer in a stock pot then transfer it over . Unfortunately you 'll have to wash a second pot . Or , finally , you can make very good chicken stock in a pressure cooker , in under an hour total cook time . But of course you need to keep an eye on that .
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
It 's really no different from cooking something on a stove : if you have no liquid at all , things are probably going to start getting too hot , sticking on the bottom , and maybe burning . As long as there 's some liquid , you 'll be fine . The important thing is to add enough ; if you keep having to open it to add more , it wo n't stay hot . This is basically the minimum level : enough that it wo n't boil dry in an hour or so . If you 're cooking something really simple like a piece of meat , using too much water just provides more water for the flavor to get diluted into . This is precisely what the first page you linked to says : if it 's not full enough , it might all boil off . The writer is just way off about quantities . I suspect his cooker 's lid does n't fit well , or he 's unnecessarily cooking on high . I do n't think my slow cooker would boil dry from half full in 8 hours on low , and there 's no reason to put it on high if I 'm cooking that long . The recipe at the second link is n't exactly empty - a can of cranberry sauce will provide a good amount of liquid . It also might not be a great recipe . On that note , I might suggest you look for more authoritative recipes . Perhaps check out a slow cooker cookbook from your library ( these tend to be pretty common ) to get an idea of the kinds of things you can do . ( Of course , if all you want is a plain piece of meat , I guess you do n't need much . )
end question
start question
How can I tell when my fat is sufficiently creamed ?
The mixture should lighten in both color and texture , and it should be ' fluffy ' . It should also increase in volume . The point of creaming is to incorporate the sugar with the fat , while at the same time adding air to the mixture . The air bubbles introduced during creaming expand during cooking , making the cookies rise and giving a lighter texture . Cookies baked with under-creamed butter would therefore remain fairly flat and dense .
Start with the milk and add ice cream till you reach the desired consistency . If you want to add ' bits ' start when it is about halfway to the thickness you want
When I buy hot chilies , I look for firm , uniformly bright ( or dark , depending on the type ) green specimens . Unless I 'm in a big hurry , I pick through the pile and choose them individually . I avoid any that are soft , discolored ( including the ends ) , missing caps ( the part that attaches to the stem -- they spoil faster after this is removed ) , wrinkly or otherwise look damaged or old . If your store does n't have any that look bright green , crisp and plump , try to find a new place to buy them , or just buy them in smaller quantities and get the least disreputable specimens and use them immediately . You want to buy chilies from a place that has a high turnover on them and most supermarket produce sections do n't really do that much business in hot peppers , so they tend to sit for a while . My favorite place to buy green chilies is at Indian markets ( the busier , the better for turnover ) , second favorite is other Asian food markets , then other specialty markets from places that like spicy food , then farmers ' markets , then a long way down the list , regular grocery stores . When I get them home , I clean them off by hand ( remove any stray leaves or any bad ones I accidentally missed , etc ) and put them in the fridge in a lightly closed baggie . If I bought a large amount ( or if I happen to be growing them and have a lot ripe at once ) , I will sometimes freeze them . I have a small bag of frozen habaneros at home right now . The texture is most definitely affected by freezing , but the flavor is n't ( unless you keep them so long that they get freezer-burned ) , so if you are planning to cook with them , freezing is perfectly fine . I usually do n't wash them before storing , just pick them over . I wash them just before using them , whether I get them from the garden , the store , the fridge or the freezer . If I have chilies I 'm not sure about , I do smell and taste them to see if they are ok . If they feel/smell/taste weird , I do n't put them in the dish . I 'd rather replace green chilies with red pepper powder instead of using something iffy .
A couple thoughts ... I have n't tried this , but I 've heard of people doing it . The microwave works relatively well to steam things . You could try " steaming " the dumplings in the microwave with a bit of water at the bottom of the dish or better yet , cover with a wet paper towel . You 'll probably need to do some experimenting unfortunately . Under " ideal " circumstances , I 'd probably prefer proper steaming , but this might work in a pinch . I imagine re-heating them would work well , but if cooking them works to your liking ... no sense cooking them twice . If you have a rice cooker , you could easily rig that up to " steam " as well . Just rig it up as if you were using a pot to steam it . Just make sure it is n't dry ...
The simplest rule of thumb is to read the ingredients : Water , soybeans , wheat , salt ( and maybe something to preserve it ) . Other brands , may list wheat before soybeans . " Good quality " and taste may be two different things ( like wine ) . So , it gets a bit tricky to answer . And then there 's reduced sodium and light soy which may have other ingredients . This link may be useful . It covers Japanese soy sauce and touches on the " Grades of Soy Sauce " : <URL> .
Try throwing some baking soda and lemon juice in it and run an empty load without soap . Repeat as needed . I 'd try about half a normal sized box of baking soda and half to a whole cup of lemon juice .
Whole wheat flour goes rancid . There is a lot of fat in wheat germ and when it oxidizes the flour becomes very bitter and has a very noticeable , unpleasant scent . First of all - if you use bleached white flour there is little to worry about . Bleached flour has had much of the wheat removed to give it a longer shelf life . At the expense of flavor and nutrition of course . Keeping whole wheat flour out of light , sealed from oxygen , and cold will keep it from going rancid . Any one of those will extend the life of the flour - putting it in the freezer sealed from air will keep it good indefinitely . In the cupboard I will start noticing off flavors in my fresh ground flour in a couple weeks . In the freezer I have gone as much as a year with no discernible degradation . You will notice if it has gone bad because it will smell and taste bad . This rancidity is n't dangerous so if the flour smells and tastes fine then it is .
Here are a few things to be wary of when buying peppers : Wrinkled skin -- it 's a sign that they 're drying out . It should be firm and smooth . Soft areas -- it 's a sign that it 's starting to rot in areas . It should be firm all over . Fuzz near the stem or blossom end -- you ca n't always see outward signs of the fuzzy mold , but if you do , it 'll be right around where the stem attaches , or in the crevice on the other side . Cracks -- it 's a sign that someone 's dropped it , and opens up the possibility of rotting faster Spots -- besides the soft areas , you can get small dots in an area ... it 's a sign of disease . ( I 'm not sure which ; I typically get this when growing my own , do n't see it in the store ) . Holes -- a sign that there 's an insect that 's eaten its way inside . ( again , I see this more on home grown ones ) Things that are n't always a problem : Discoloration : if it 's a green pepper , it might start turning red , yellow or orange . Red peppers might have an area that looks black or brown . So long as that area is n't soft , and the color changes look blended in ( not where it 's an obvious line between colors ) , it 's fine . Weight : you typically want heavier specimens , but some varieties are thinner skinned , and wo n't be as heavy . If you find one that seems abnormally light , compare it to similar sized ones in the display . If they 're all the same , and do n't have wrinkled skin , they 're probably okay . White lines : you typically see this more on hot peppers , but it can happen on bell peppers , too . They 'll be roughly parallel to each other , along the line from stem to blossom . It 's a sign that they got a sudden burst of water while growing , which caused the skin to crack ( but then heal ) . Folds : some varieties of peppers are more balloon-like , while others may have a few folds ; so long as it 's still smooth skin ( not wrinkled ) , relatively heavy for its size , and you do n't see fuzz in the folds , it 's not an issue .
Take an egg from the carton and ' spin ' it on the work counter . If it spins , it 's cooked , if it does anything else , it 's not .
I use a similar recipe , unfortunately I do n't remember the original source , but I 've changed over time anyway . Things I do n't use that you have in your recipe : Sugar Jack Daniels Cider Vinegar Worcestershire sauce mustard Things I do use : Lots of fresh ground spices . Typically 4 or 5 cloves , teaspoon of cumin seeds , tablespoon of fennel seeds , black pepper and salt . Fresh herbs , including Rosemary , Bay and thyme Balsamic vinegar - about half a bottle of inexpensive stuff Orange zest - zest of one whole orange Smoked Paprika - about 4 heaped teaspoons Olive oil - about 4 tablespoons grind-up the spices and place in the marinade tray . medium fine chop the fresh herbs ( leave the fresh bay leaves whole ) with the orange zest and a whole bulb of garlic , then add to the spice mixture . To that add juice from an orange , the Balsamic , followed by the ketchup and olive oil . Mix well . Score the meat well and add to the marinade tray . rub the marinade mixture into all the scores so that the meat is well penetrated . Cover the tray with foil and cook in an oven for about an hour ( depends on the meat and the amount ) once it 's out of the oven it can be placed on the barby .
Many modern smoke/fire detectors have the ability to temporarily disable or decrease the sensitivity of the alarm for a short period of time , usually 15 or 20 minutes . At the end of the time period it returns to full sensitivity . You may want to look into replacing your smoke detector with one of these .
i 've only made seitan myself a couple times , and it 's been awhile , but is n't there a point where you drain it and/or squeeze out some moisture ? if so , maybe an extended sit in some sort of press would help . the times i 've made it , i put it in a smoker afterwards , so it was firm because of the low-heat semi-cooking , i guess .
This is a combination of the type of cheese and too much heat . Some cheeses melt more readily ( mozzarella for example ) , but all of them will seize up if they are heated too much too fast - the proteins ' curl up ' and separate from the fat and water in the cheese . To combat this , you should chop or grate the cheese up to speed up melting , and lower the heat a little before adding it . You should also avoid using cheese straight from the fridge .
Put the bag in front of an air conditioner for a few minutes . Worked like a champ for Oreos and chips that went stale over a humid weekend in a desk drawer . This was a window unit - I arranged to blow the cold air into the bag . Was amazed with the results .
In Germany we have an old ( joking ) saying that roughly translates to " head off , tail off - bunny " , so your question is legitimate . But first thing 's first : There is no health risk involved if you ate the latest shipment of " meowling rabbit " . ( To cat lovers everywhere : This is no endorsement , I have a much loved and pampered cat , too ! ) The most obvious differences are head ( look at the teeth ! ) , tail ( short vs. long ) , and feet ( cat claws are quite distinctive ) . But I suspect these would be removed prior to sale , so we 'd have to dig a bit deeper into anatomy : Shoulder blades : Cats ' shoulder blades are rounded on top , especially in the front , making the shoulder blade almost semicircular with the ridge making for two differently shaped parts , rabbits ' shoulder blades are triangular with the ridge somewhat parallel to the front side . Femur ( thigh bone ) : A cat 's femora are straight , whereas a rabbit 's is more or less bent , especially pronounced in older animals . Same applies to a lesser extent to radius and ulna ( forearm ) , but they might have been removed . Ribs : Cats ' ribs are " rounder " than rabbits ' ribs according to <URL> . I ca n't say by how much , but <URL> 's comment below suggests the difference is obvious enough to play a significant role in the novel/movie <URL> . Pelvis : The same source as above states that the <URL> ( = the loop-like opening near/below the hip joint ) is oval in rabbits and round in cats . I could n't find a good picture to show this , though . Here 's a rabbit : Source : <URL> And a cat :
It is also like Schrodinger 's Cat in the sense that hopefully whatever is inside is not still alive . But seriously : the main thing is time . You start with the recommendations from your manufacturer ( since all cookers vary somewhat in terms of pressure and therefore temperature ) and then keep good notes as to whether you prefer slightly more or less time . For example , I 've learned that with my cooker , if I 'm making pinto beans without soaking , for whole beans I like about 35 minutes , but if I 'm going to puree them , 40 is better .
In the US the closest thing you could ( easily ) get would be " <URL> " though this is n't quite correct since chitterlings are the small intestine , and tripa gorda is the large intestine .
Replace your ladle with an ice cream scoop . You will be able to control the amount of dough for each waffle much easier . For my waffle iron and scoop I use two scoops . An additional advantage over a ladle , is that the dough releases much easier from a scoop , which reduces the probability of making a mess .
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
No <URL> : " There are no outward characteristics that all poisonous mushrooms have in common , so picking and eating wild mushrooms requires the utmost caution . To be absolutely safe , the only mushrooms you should eat are those found at supermarkets and restaurants ! All the old wives ' tales about how to tell if a mushroom is poisonous -- such as whether it tarnishes silverware or turns blue when bruised -- are dead wrong . There 's a saying that there 's no such thing as an old , bold mushroom hunter . "
end question
start question
How can I create a sweet pizza that looks like pizza ?
If you make the base neutral - a typical Neopolitan dough would do - you could use white chocolate shavings to give an appearance of cheese as well . I would keep the amount light . While looking to verify this idea , I found a <URL> that gave me a few more pieces of inspiration . Instead of carmelized sugar banana slices , try dried fruits ( strawberries , sweetened cranberries , raspberries , etc. ) for your toppings . These will look like sausage bits or pepperoni . You can also use pineapple and make it look like a Hawaiian pizza . You could also use <URL> as a white sauce or as some of your cheese for a richness that is not too sweet .
This is fairly easy , and completely safe , to do with pectinex enzyme . ... and yes , you want to ! It is how modernist chefs remove the pith from citrus . You can order Pectinex Ultra-SPL from Modernist Pantry ( modernistpantry.com ) . <URL>
" Plastic chocolate " is a form of chocolate used for modeling and shaping decorative elements such as chocolate roses , ribbons and other elements for cakes and desserts . Take about 1 lb . of bittersweet chocolate and melt over a double boiler . When chocolate is melted , stir in 2/3 cup of light corn syrup . Mix until evenly blended and then set aside to cool . When it firms up , wrap tightly in a heavy gauge plastic bag or wrap tightly in plastic wrap . Let sit for several hours or overnight . No need to refrigerate it , ambient temperature is fine . Cut the plastic chocolate into smaller size chunks that will be easy to knead . Begin kneading to soften it . If it gets sticky , use a little cocoa powder but be careful not to dry it out . Knead until pliable and then roll out to desired thickness and cut as desired to shape your sushi rolls , decorative elements , etc. . You can roll it through the roller of a pasta machine to help get it to an even thickness . If you 're wanting the rough look of nori then press some crumpled foil into it after rolling as previously suggested .
The easiest way I have found to cook whole artichokes is to steam them in the microwave . Cut off the top of the bud and then trim off any beaten up tough outer leaves . Place in a large glass bowl with about 1/2 cup of water in the bottom . Cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on high for about 4-5 minutes . Check and add more time if necessary . You can then eat the leaves and save the base and heart for another dish or eat the whole thing .
There are several advantages to using a pressure cooker other than speed , the first of which address your concerns about skimming . If operated correctly the water in a pressure cooker will never come to the boil resulting in a clearer stock than one made by convention means . From Modernist Cuisine ( 2-291 ) : The liquid inside the pressure cooker will not boil , despite the elevated temperature , unless you let the heat get out of hand . A liquid boils when its vapor pressure exceeds the ambient pressure around it . Inside a sealed pressure cooker , as liquid water vaporizes , it raises the ambient pressure , which in turn increases the boiling point . So long as water vapor is not escaping the pressure cooker , the pressure inside will stay high enough to keep liquid water from boiling . Never reaching a boil is important because it keeps the stock clear . Turbulence from boiling emulsifies oils and small food particles from the ingredients into a stock , thereby making it murky . A telltale sign that the stock is at a rolling boil inside a pressure cooker is a jet of steam or fog from the overextended pressure valve . This jet means that the pressure cooker is overpressurized , and for safety 's sake the valve is relieving the pressure . You can further increase the clarity by adding some raw meat to your ingredients to act as a filtering agent . From Modernist Cuisine ( 2-295 ) : Dispersing a small amount of raw ground meat along with the other ingredients when making a pressure-cooked stock yields a stock with the clarity of a traditional consommé . This works because protein extracted from the uncooked ground meat acts just like protein in egg white : it sponges up tiny light scattering fat globules and other small particles . Another benefit comes from the sealed nature of the cooking environment , which prevent volatile aromas from evaporating into the air . Heston Blumenthal cites this as one of the reasons why The Fat Duck began using pressure cookers for their stock in <URL> : Now , this may seem obvious , but when you smell those wonderful odours while you 're cooking , it 's a sign that you 're losing flavours through those volatile elements that disappear in the air . A pressure cooker , however , keeps the aromas and flavour molecules sealed in the pot ... In a normal stockpot , by contrast , water evaporates at boiling point , taking flavour with it . Modernist Cuisine ( 2-292 ) concurs : When the the pressure-cooking step is done , you must let the cooker cool before removing the lid ... Cooling first means that volatile aromas in the vapor above the liquid will condense back into the liquid rather than escape into the kitchen . However , not all pressure cookers are created equal and some will release vapor to maintain pressure resulting in a poorer quality stock . Dave Arnold and Nils Norén from Cooking Issues have done extensive experiments into this phenomenon <URL> : in blind tastings vented pressure cookers produced inferior results to both conventionally cooked stocks and those made with more advanced spring valved cookers ; however , the non-vented vessels produced the best results out of all three methods . Finally , the elevated temperature increases the rate of Maillard reactions resulting in a more flavourful stock . In the Cooking Issues article above the resulting browning was significant enough that it was easy to tell which stock was pressure cooked and which was n't just by visual inspection : The aroma of the pressure cooked stock was clearly superior . The color was deeper as well ( because of this all future tests were done actually blind -- with our eyes closed ) . Unfortunately the conventional stock tasted better . It had a stronger chicken flavor and was better balanced overall . ... I took 4 liters of conventional chicken stock from the restaurant and pressure-cooked half while the other half simmered on the stove . This time , I did n't use the school 's pressure cooker , I used my own . When I compared the two stocks side by side the pressure cooked one was far browner . I had n't thought the pressure cooker would change the color of a pre-made stock . When we tasted them the pressure-cooker won .
Any meat that is good for fast cooking ( BBQ , frying , grilling etc. ) will be suitable for this . Do not use meat that is normally casseroled or slow cooked . For beef this is the non-exercised top parts of the cow . Typical western cuts are called sirloin , rump , and fillet You need very thin slices of meat more than cubes if you want any level of browning and cooking to be achieved The easiest way to do this is to partially freeze you meat for one to two hours in a normal domestic freezer . A slab of meat with a profile of around 30 x 80 mm ( ± 50 % ) is the easiest to handle . Use a sharp chef 's knife or meat cleaver and slice it into 2 to 3 mm thin slices which will cook very nicely on a pizza A well marbled ( mixed fat content ) cut would work better , like in this picture
Potassium hydroxide is not something you 'd want to eat . It 's caustic ( the base form of corrosive ) , and you ABSOLUTELY should not mix an anhydrous ( pellet or powdered ) form of it directly into food , whether or not you mix it with another powder first . Also , if you get the proportions off and the acid and base do not fully react , you could end up with a corrosive result . That 's not something you want in food . The chemical synthesis of <URL> ( otherwise known as " cream of tartar " ) is relatively straightforward . Usually , you 'd have a solution with a high concentration of tartaric acid , to which you 'd add a solution of potassium hydroxide until the salt ( potassium bitartrate ) begins to precipitate out . You 'd then continue to titrate to obtain maximum precipitate . Lastly , you 'd filter out this precipitate and dry it to have powdered cream of tartar . But I can not advise you to attempt this on your own unless you have chemistry training . First , as another answer points out , industrial chemicals are not generally designed to be " food safe , " and although they are relatively pure , the small impurities may not be something you 'd want to ingest , depending on how they were manufactured . Second -- and more important -- it 's potentially DANGEROUS unless you know what you are doing . Read the <URL> , particularly the section on acute health effects . ( Note that the health hazard rating is ' 3 ' , which is on a scale of 0 to 4 , with 4 being the most hazardous . ) You should generally wear gloves and goggles when making a potassium hydroxide solution to begin with . And even if you safely handle the stuff , you need to ensure it is properly reacted and the resulting cream of tartar properly filtered and dried , or else you could be putting a caustic agent into your food . Basically , the potential for injury is high if you do n't know what you 're doing and mess something up . I would n't recommend it for home food applications unless you 're a trained chemist .
I 've never done anything in particular . I just do n't use soap on it .
" Instant " coffee typically is disolved in hot water , so I 'd think that just stirring it into a cold product would be less than ideal . You might try <URL> ( as you 're adding sugar anyway ) or try steeping the instant coffee in hot milk or water first , cool it down , then mixing that into the yoghurt .
You can stage pan pizzas ( chicago style , or pizza hut style ) for up to four hours as long as you keep them covered . You can stage a stretched dough for up to an hour and a half between two pieces of wax paper . However , you need to take the time into consideration when proofing your dough so that you do n't get blown dough as that will not be delicious . You should not sauce the crusts or top them as pre-saucing will change how your dough cooks in the oven . If the dough forms a harder crust / dries out , you should consider tossing it as it will not result in good pizza after cooking .
" Completely " definitely is n't a standardized term ; however , since we 're talking about making ice cream here , the correct answer is going to be " as cold as possible without freezing " . When making ice cream , it 's important to get the mixture as cold as possible before you freeze it , especially if you 're not using an ice cream machine , so that you give it as little time as possible for ice crystals to form . If large ice crystals form , then you wo n't have ice cream , you 'll have ice . So get it all the way down to refrigerator temperature and work quickly when you take it back out of the fridge . It 'll be quicker and easier if you chill the bowl or receptacle first .
I recommend starting with a chilled dough , puncturing with a knife or fork ( see below ) , and cooking in a greased pan initially then bricking . Cooking directly on the stone the entire time works better for thinner crusts than mid-dough . By mid-dough , I am referring to the ones that plump up a bit and finish between 1/4 " - 1/2 " in thickness . They can have both uniform , almost cake-y cross-sections , or air pockets and bubbles depending on how kneaded they are ( more kneading means cake-ier , denser dough ) . I worked in a shop that made a mid-dough similar to what you describe . It was a standard dough recipe ( flour , water , yeast ) , but I have had success replicating it at home at 450 ' F with beer and less kneading . At home I use a pan and then finish either on the rack or a stone . In any case , you get a dough that tears nicely and has a good chew . The dough itself was mixed in the morning and kept refrigerated for as long as 12 hours as individual shells in greased pizza pans covered with saran wrap . To prepare a pizza , we pulled the shell , punched it with a fork ( puncture a ring around the edge to create a crust , puncture the inside to allow for air ) . Dress with sauce and toppings . We had a stone-bottomed oven , but initially the pizza is baked in the oven in the pan until the bottom of the dough has hardened enough to get " bricked " ( the dough should be rigid enough as to be removed from the pan with one spatula ) . At this point you remove the dough from the pan with a spatula and place it directly on the brick . Cook until the top of the dough browns , and the cheese and other toppings are evenly browned .
I have the <URL> and it works well for sweet potato fries . The product spec for them lists " Yams " which are sometimes what sweet potatoes are called in the U.S. ( technically , yes , yams are different but real yams are not often available in the U.S. ) . The <URL> specifically lists sweet potatoes : Makes French fries , sweet potato fries , zucchini sticks and other favorites
I have had a pizza with a drizzle of olive oil on top ( in addition to some basil , pesto , and something else ) . As best I remember , it did not end up looking , feeling , or tasting particularly " oily " , although it was visually apparent ( olive-green lines ) . However , that was a high-end pizzeria ; I 've never seen oil on a delivered pizza , at least not any that was intentionally added as a separate ingredient . Oil that is orange or yellow comes out of the cheese ( and salami or other fatty ingredients ) during cooking . Inexpensive ingredients often have much more grease than higher-quality alternatives .
Very , very few pizzas are made with butter . There is no way to make a universal statement , but butter is a rare . Olive oil would be more likely . Many pizza doughs are fat-free , including the traditional pizza di napoli ; New York style generally contains olive oil . It is rare for any traditional toppings to contain butter . Some individual cooks might saute vegetables in butter , but even then , olive oil more common . As for particular restaurant chains , you would need to check their nutrition information sites . Note : as Derobert points out , some deep dish Chicago style pizzas may contain butter in the crust .
How to throw dough , a basic step by step guide . Make sure you have a dough that can stand up to being airborne . This means that you need a high gluten dough . You can throw wetter doughs as you get more experienced but they require much more precise hand placement and are much less forgiving . Make sure your dough is fully risen with out being " blown " . It should be elastic and soft to the touch . Coat dough in flour . This step is necessary to allow free spinning on your hands and to get good , clean releases . Create crust . You can use the method that daniel describes , you can use the Papa John 's fold and tuck method , you can do it like this <URL> , it does n't matter as long as you end up with a piece of dough that is flat over the interior with a ridge going around the outside . You should be comfortable with in-air hand stretching before you get to the actual throwing . This is when you place the dough on the backs of your hands , support it with your knuckles and stretch it out . This position is a great way to start a basic toss that wo n't rip your dough as you will be catching with the backs of your hands and not your fingers . You want to release the dough by having your right hand provide upward thrust as your left hand provides spin . This will provide a straight up toss that is very easy to catch . The way to do the more advanced throws is learn to release from your finger tips . This involves having your fingers rest along the ridge that we made in step four . You can check out a quick tutorial starting at 2:17 on this <URL> . Feel free to ignore the rest of it , but it was the best explanation I found online . Basically , you want the dough to hang in such a way as to allow you to impart spin and momentum with just one hand , while other is occasionally used as a stabilizer . This allows tricks like the <URL> and the through the legs and all the others . Important tips that will help you be successful at learning this skill . Cold dough is more elastic than warm dough . That means its terrible for pizza but great for practicing . It also resists puncture a little better , so less holes . A damp kitchen towel has about the same aerodynamics as a piece of dough . It 's what I used to train the guys at my restaurant on for extra practice , and it 's way cheaper than one of those rubber doughs . The dough should always be spinning in the air . If it 's not , you are n't doing it right . Throwing dough can result in a very thin middle . You want to make sure that you are stretching evenly and keeping an eye on that if you intend to use the dough for it 's actual purpose of delicious pizza . Practice , Practice ! Throwing dough is a physical skill and you have to train your muscles a little to be good at it . It can be a little frustrating at first but stick with it , it 's a lot of fun . If you have any additional concerns leave a comment and I 'll do my best answer them .
Jamie Oliver has previously recommened the use of a simple granite slab as a Pizza stone so provided there are no coatings etc. it is feasible . You will need to be careful to start with though . Granite could shatter under thermal stress or due to trapped water and when it does so , it could do so in an explosive way damaging your cooker . You need to be sure that the board is granite as other stones may not be strong enough under thermal stress . You need to be careful of reconstituted stone as well because this will not necesserily perform the same as natural stone . Make sure that there are no signs of weakness in the board such as cracks or natural weaknesses . Make sure that the stone is thick enough to avoid issues with stress changes as the stone heats up . If you are going to go for it , I would recommend initially do it slowly , start out with the over cold and heat it up to a lowish temperature a leave it for a while , then turn the over off and let it cool . Inspect the stone , check it for cracks or other signs of distress and give it a few light taps . It should ' ring ' . Dull sounds are indiciative of cracks . Then go to a higher temperatures .
<URL> describes the process by which yeast is commercially prepared in good detail for an overview . There are several stages of cultivation and growing and increasing the yeast biomass , culminating as its final steps : Treatments and packaging The yeast in the final trade bioreactor is concentrated by centrifugation and finally harvested by a filter press or a rotary vacuum filter , until it contains 27 -- 33 % of dry cell mass . The yeast cake is blended with suitable amounts of water and emulsifiers and cutting oils ( soybean or cottonseed oil ) to obtain its extrudable form . The yeast is then packaged and shipped as compressed fresh baker 's yeast , or thermolysed and dried to form various types of dry yeast . The dried yeast is packed under vacuum or nitrogen atmosphere . The packaging method varies among manufacturers and depends on the type of yeast product . Note that this process requires assorted items of industrial or laboratory equipment which may not be suitable to the home environment , including centrifuges and filter presses or vacuuum filters . If you really only want to preserve your starter strain without maintaining an active starter , simply drying a sample and then storing it in the freezer may be a better option . This process is described at <URL> .
I 'd say your problem is that the yeast has exhausted the food in the dough before you even get the leftover dough in the fridge . When you pull it out the next morning , the yeast does nothing or very little because there are no more sugars left for it to eat . And not only will this prevent rising , it will also limit browning because it 's at least partly the sugars that brown in the oven . You could work some more flour ( and water , to maintain hydration ) into your dough as yeast food -- maybe even a little sugar if you want -- and then rise/form/rise and bake . But at that point you 're doing what @tmow suggests -- just using your pizza dough as a starter for new bread .
Ok , I 'll play along . ;) The moist , hot environment improves oven spring by transferring heat more rapidly to the dough ( moist air is more thermally conductive than dry air ) , keeping the dough surface from drying out and getting stiff . It improves crust quality by gelatinizing the starches on the surface of the dough , causing them to brown better , and form a more distinct " crust " , rather than just a skin of browner bread . To get more steam in your oven , in addition to the simple methods you noted , spritzing and pans of hot water , you can : Bake inside a vessel like a dutch oven preheated in the oven . Gives both thermal mass for browning , and traps naturally produced steam around the bread . Remove the lid for the last 10 minutes of baking . Cover the baking bread with a large bowl or pan for the first 10-15 minutes of the bake to trap naturally released steam . Use one of several commercial steam injection kits ( most look like a steam cleaner that allows you to blast some steam manually into the oven when loading ) . Build your own steam injector , like <URL> . The gist is that they use a pressure cooker with a flexible metal hose attached to an output port and directed into the oven . Boiling water in the pressure cooker produces steam . Pre-steaming the oven for 10 minutes before baking and for the first portion of the bake produces impressive results . In addition to getting more steam in , you can improve the crust and oven spring by using delayed or cold fermentation , which creates more sugars ( better browning ) , and more extensible dough ( better oven spring ) .
end question
start question
Differences between the oven stone and the pizza oven ?
A pizza stone in a normal oven will only get the maximum temperature of the oven ( probably not more than 280 ºC / 530 ºF ) . A specific pizza oven will gett hotter ( the one you linked gets 390 ºC / 735 ºF and , indeed has a stone inside ) . If you want to get Italian style pizzas , go for the pizza oven . They need that high temperature in order to be ready in ( ideally ) 90 seconds . Those Ferrari ovens are one of Italian 's favourite ones , albeit they 'll need a bit more time than 1.5 minutes achievable in wood fired traditional pizza ovens . You ( probably ) wo n't be able to achieve those high temperatures with a normal home kitchen oven , unless you have a pyrolytic home oven , and hack it in order to cook in it during the pyrolysis cycle . As for the waiting time between pizzas using a stone , consider it as a capacitor ( or a rechargeable battery ) : It takes heat ( until is soaked up ) , and then gives it back . Once you make 1 pizza ( or a loaf of bread ) , it needs to soak ( a bit ) again .
Historically , these grades were established before white cane sugar became inexpensive and common , so the " best " maple syrup was the least strong , or Grade A . Now we seek out that maple flavor on corn flapjacks or waffles , so the " best " maple syrup is Grade B. I find that the best pancakes are made with 2/3 cornmeal to 1/3 whole wheat or buckwheat flour ( or any wheat flour , really ) rather than just pancake mix . The cornmeal makes them crisp . And Grade B maple syrup , of course .
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
In the oven , that heat is coming from all directions more or less equally . On the stovetop , the heat is coming only from the bottom . This can potentially cause convection , and almost certainly requires occasional stirring ( especially for larger batches ) , meaning that the ingredients are being moved around . The combination of the ingredients being heated more when they 're at the bottom and the movement can cause them to start breaking apart , and generally cook unevenly . Personally , I only find this to be an issue with beans and meat ( and it 's not something that 's going to cause failure ; it 's really just a refinement ) but if you are making an especially large batch of stew , you may want to try the oven .
Consider what the " no cheating " version of the ingredient is , and get the closest thing to that , that 's convenient enough for you . For things like garlic , ginger , etc. , the " no-cheating " version is to get the fresh ingredients and crush/grate them - what you end up with is a paste . The paste you can buy in jars is this stuff , with preservatives added to make them last . Some flavour will be lost . To make powder , the paste is dried , and more flavour is lost . But the powder will keep for a long time in the cupboard . Note that some spices take on different , desirable flavours when processed . Paprika powder has its own properties when compared to fresh paprika peppers . You 'd use fresh ginger in many curries , powdered ginger in many cakes , candied ginger in some other sweet dishes . Recipes will specify what to use . For things like black pepper , cumin , turmeric , coriander seeds , the " no-cheating " version is to get whole seeds , roast them and grind them in a spice grinder or a pestle and mortar . So buying the ready-ground version is only one step away from the ideal . Try grinding your own at least once . The extra depth and complexity of flavour is striking . But for convenience , ready-ground spices are fine . " Roasting " , for small quantities of whole dry spice , involves briefly heating them on a hot dry pan . It brings out spice flavours you do n't get from just frying or boiling the spice . Of course , it 's optional . Ground spices have a shorter shelf life than whole dry spices . If you open a jar of powdered spice and it does n't have a strong aroma , throw it away -- you might as well use dust . Whole spices have the aroma " locked away " , to be released when you grind . To make a paste , these are sometimes mixed with wet ingredients ( like garlic and ginger ) , water and oil . That 's the basis of the jars of " spice mix " you can buy in supermarkets . It 's also the first step in many curry recipes -- grind your spices , mix with oil to make a paste , and gently fry before adding the onions .
In short , kind of , but only with the proper accessories/equipment . You 'll never match a grill or griddle but you can get surprisingly close . As was mentioned in other answers , what you 're going to lose most is the sear . I was given a Corningware Microwave Browning Dish a while back and found that it actually works pretty well when you 're stuck with only a microwave . They were apparently popular when microwaves were new and exciting , but people did n't know how to use them well and they faded into oblivion . I 've seen them on sale on eBay so you might be able to find a good price there if you 're going to be stuck in the hostel for a while . The basic idea is , there 's a special kind of microwave-safe metal inside the base of the casserole . You heat this with nothing on it for 3 minutes to get it nice and hot . When you drop the patty on , it immediately sizzles . You use the microwave function to heat the inside , while the hot surface sears the outside . Although you 're likely not going to get a perfect burger , you do get a real nice Maillard reaction on the outside of both sides ( assuming you flip halfway ) and if you play with the cooking time and power ( to reduce that rubbery texture from overcooking ) , you can get something that 's ( in my opinion ) a good 75 % - quality burger compared to a griddle or grill . I actually burned pork chops on it once , that 's how hot the surface gets . As a bonus , similar to a nice Boos block , there is a gutter around the outside and the plate is slightly concave , so the juices run off into the reservoir and the burger wo n't sit in fat during the cooking . After reading the other answers ( ElendilTheTall 's specifically ) , I would think if you combined the steaming method to cook the burgers , with the microwave browning dish to sear , you could probably get a really good result . If the burgers were fully cooked via steaming you could probably heat the dish and sear the burgers without even turning the microwave on ( except to heat the casserole initially ) . I believe Alton Brown did an episode where he talked about a specific type of brick that you can find at most hardware stores which is microwave-safe for the same searing purpose , but I ca n't find that info right now .
I can not speak to price ; I have n't comparison-shopped with this feature in mind . However , I have used various home gas ranges with either type of broiler . I 'll go ahead and sum it up : tl ; dr : I greatly prefer an in-oven broiler . Here 's why . First , positioning . Broiler drawers are typically located at the very bottom of the range , underneath the actual oven . This means that in order to place food in or take it out , you 've got to bend all the way down to the floor . I hope the ergonomic challenge here is obvious , but I have safety concerns as well . If you have never tried to cook 10 pounds of flank steak in a broiler drawer , then learn from my experience : it 's less than optimal . You will wind up bent over at the waist when pulling your finished steaks , end up tilting your pan and spilling meat juice on the way to the top of the range , and just barely manage to kick the drawer closed before your dog licks the exposed cooking tray . An in-oven broiler presents no additional challenges than you 'd have with regular oven use . Second : flexibility . Broiler drawers often seem to come equipped with an awkwardly-sized pan that 's smaller than the oven itself . Sometimes this has brackets or rails to hold it in place in the center of the drawer . This is a stupid design that 's difficult to clean , sometimes even difficult to remove , and limits your cooking space . The pan also rarely has any ability to move up or down , limiting your vertical space too . With an in-oven broiler , you can adjust the existing racks to get thick items underneath , and control how close your food gets to the heat source ( and therefore how quickly it browns ) . I frequently kick on the broiler at the end of cooking with things like au gratin potatoes , to get a nice brown crust on top at the very end . I could n't fit the pan I use into a broiler drawer , but with the in-oven version I do n't even have to open the door . An in-oven broiler will also accommodate any size pan that will fit in your oven . Remember those flank steaks ? Regarding design , most gas ranges that I 've seen with an in-oven broiler have two separate burners , a main version at the bottom that provides indirect heat to the oven box , and the broiler running along the top with a sort of heat shield to reflect its energy down into the oven . Drawers often seem designed to take advantage of only a single burner at the bottom of the oven , which provides both indirect heat to the oven box and direct heat to the drawer . This is mostly my assumption ; I 'm not an engineer . This design could make drawers marginally cheaper ( again , I have n't checked ) but I think the advantages outweigh any price premium for the extra burner . I 'll be so bold as to say that you will be very pleased with the difference if all you 've ever used is a drawer .
I think there 's probably a bigger difference between types of zesters than between brands . No matter what type you choose , look for one that limits how deeply you can cut into the fruit 's peel . You want to get only the colored layer , and as little of the white pith ( the bitter under-layer ) as possible . The most common kind that I 've seen -- a series of little loops at the end of a metal scraper thing ( hard to describe , I guess ) -- are too small in my estimation . They work OK , but they are usually kind of dull , so they release a lot of the oils as you use them , and it takes a long time to get a lot of zest . Some also have a second slot to allow you to cut a fat piece of zest , appropriate for a martini or the like . Even on the fine side , the zest they make is n't really very fine , and might wind up as a texture in the final dish . ( I think of these as more of a bar tool than kitchen tool , and would n't purchase one of these of any brand ) Microplane graters are quite popular for zesting , and they 're what I use the most . They do n't dig deep , and are crazy sharp so they do n't bruise/mash the zest much -- less fragrant oil on the tool , more in the dish . They also work really fast -- it takes very little time to get the zest from an entire orange . The zest produced is very fine and will disappear in most cooking applications . Because they 're sharp it 's easy to grate your fingers by accident , so they require some care in use . There are lots of styles out there , from the classic that looks almost like a wood rasp to ones that look more like a grater . I think these are great to have on hand anyway , since they 're really good with parmesan cheese and other hard items , and they 're killer for zesting . Another option is a standard vegetable peeler . These take bigger slabs of skin off , and take some practice not to cut too deep . If you do cut too deep you can use a sharp paring knife to remove the excess pith from the backside . Kind of a lot of trouble , but with practice you can get good enough that you do n't need the second step . You can get a lot of zest in a hurry this way , but the pieces are huge . You 'd either need to cut them down or only use them in a recipe where you wanted to take the pieces of peel back out before serving . Since you probably already have one of these , this is your most economical option .
I use mine as a heat shield in my grill to create indirect heat for slow smoked BBQ . I also use it to cook pizza on my grill , but that 's not really a different use .
<URL> is distilled from actual orange blossoms , and will have a subtle orange flavor , probably more delicate and complex than orange extract , at least on a per volume basis . Orange extract comes from the zest or colored part of the fruit , and is a very powerful flavoring with a strong orange presence , but no acidity . You will find that blossom water is more commonly used in recipes from the middle east and northern Africa , that have migrated up into Italy and France as well . Orange extract is used in more assertive , more typically western recipes . Given that fresh oranges are readily available , and the zest can be removed and use directly , using either of these is not as common as it otherwise might be .
It 's possible that it 's designed to conduct less heat from the bottom . Many gas ovens have the flue in the bottom and the heating is only from below in the oven . To make things more even , most electric ovens have an element at the top and one on the bottom . Speaking of bottom , the bottom line is that you should be ok . If you find the bottom of you cake not being done very well , move the form to a lower rack next time .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
Oven cleaner will take that right off . If you 're sensitive to nasty harmful fumes you can get the fume free kind . Make sure you follow the manufacturer 's instructions to the letter , and make sure no kids or pets are around .
First , buy a thermometer , they 're cheap . This one topped America 's Test Kitchen testing : <URL> Barring taking the plunge and spending $ 6 on an oven thermometer , this method comes straight from an online class I 'm taking from Harvard through edX.org . <URL> To test the oven , you can either use an oven thermometer , or you can find a material that has a transition at some critical temperature , and then tune your oven near the critical temperature where the transition occurs -- to find out if it actually happens . Jeff Potters has suggested a wonderful idea in his excellent book Cooking for Geeks . Namely , he suggests that oven testing can be done with melting sugar . His protocol is here . The calibration is based on the idea that the melting point of table sugar ( sucrose ) is 366 F ( 186 ˚C ) , [ google " melting point sucrose " ] and so if you put the temperature just above 366 , the sugar should melt . And if you put it just below 366 F it should not melt . It is important when doing this procedure to not use a lot of sugar , as otherwise the heating time for the sugar could be too long . Materials : ~ 1/2 tablespoon granulated sugar Procedure : 1 ) Preheat your oven to 350F ( 177 ˚C ) . ( 2 ) Place the granulated sugar in an oven proof dish or on aluminum foil ( 3 ) Place in oven for 15 minutes ( 4 ) If the sugar does n't melt , raise the temperature of the oven by 10F ( 5 ˚C ) and repeat the experiment . ( 5 ) Continue raising the temperature until you find the temperature setting where your sugar melts . Let 's call this temperature Tmelt . ( 6 ) You have thus found that the sugar melts somewhere in the interval Tmelt-10 , Tmelt . ( i.e. , if you found that the sugar melted at 400F , but not 390F , the melting temperature is between 390 and 400 . ) ( 7 ) Your measurement suggests that your oven has the approximate calibration curve T = Tdial + 366 - Tmelt ( if you use degrees Fahrenheit ) T = Tdial + 186 - Tmelt ( if you use degrees Celsius ) where Tdial is the temperature of the dial . Note that if your dial says that sugar melts at 400 , this formula states that the actual temperature in the oven is the temperature that the sugar melts ( 366F ) . " Here is another method , this one is from Cook 's Illustrated , AKA America 's Test Kitchen . I copied and pasted the technique from <URL> Preheat oven to 350F . Start with 1 cup of room temperature water and check its temperature with an immersion thermometer . Adjust the temperature with either warm or cold water to make it 70F . place in oven for 15 minutes . Check temperature again and it should read 150F . Adjust oven temperature accordingly . Another way to check oven temp is to simply boil water . Put a couple of cups of water in an oven proof pan and set the oven temp to 200F or 90C , the water should n't boil no matter how long you leave it in the oven . Set the temp to 225F or 110C . Eventually , the water should boil . All that said , buy a thermometer .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
As you know , focaccia and pizza are Italian dishes , and coca is Catalonian ( a region at Spain 's northeast ) . They all have toppings , and similar doughs ( with wheat flour and yeast ) . Classical focaccias : Are thicker than [ Italian ] pizzas ( about 3 ˜4 cm ( 1.2 ˜1 .6 in ) thick ) Have rectangular shape Have herbs , salt and olive oil as topping Are baked for about 20 minutes . Italian pizzas : Are thin ( less than 5 mm ( 0.2 in ) ) except their outer part Are round ( see notes below ) Have many different toppings , almost always including cheese , and most of the times tomato sauce or whole tomato Are baked for about 90 seconds ( this is very important for italian pizzas ) Cocas : Can be as thick as focaccias or as pizzas , usually depending on the topping . Are either rectangular like focaccias , or really long shaped like <URL> . Can be either sweet or salty . Sweet ones are usually thin as pizzas , always having sugar as topping and maybe pinnions , candied/confited fruit and/or anis ( it might remind you to a Spanish Roscón de Reyes ) . Salty are just a bit thicker than pizzas , and may have many ingrediets , but never cheese or any sauce : usually <URL> . Are baked for 30 to 45 minutes ( aprox ) ( which is , in my opinion , their biggest distinction with pizzas ) Notes : I know there are some pizzas in America that do not fit in the description I gave . But I understand your question is focusing on Italian pizzas . Also , sure there are pizza al taglio in italy , but despite having different shapes and cooking time than pizza pizza , they share the same Italian spirit , and can be noticed different different to cocas . You can make the three of them with natural yeasts , like sourdough/lievito naturale/massa mare , but certainly not with chemical rising agents .
I would recommend a combination toaster and convection oven . While I have a regular oven in my small apartment , I rarely use it in favor of saving energy ( and money on my energy bill ) by using the toaster/convection oven . I have purchased toaster oven sized muffin tins ( just a 6 muffin tin ) and a toaster oven sized roasting rack that fits two sizes of meat . My oven came with a roasting pan . The convection features have done wonderful things for my pies . You can get them big enough to make pizza in . As long as you are n't cooking for a crowd , it will work wonders . Things I 've successfully baked in there include : Muffins Cake ( did have to do it one cake at a time for a layer cake ) Pie ( the convection feature is perfect for pie ! ) Bread Cupcakes Pitas Steak ( well , it was a broiled steak recipe - the best I can do without a grill ) Chicken breasts I had a friend who rented a place that has a convection cooking setting on the microwave . We successfully used it to make muffins once , but I have n't tried it further .
A regular electric oven uses a large coiled resistor as a heating element . A large electric current is passed through this element which generates heat , similar to the tungsten filament of an incandescent light bulb . An induction stove does n't actually generate heat itself , but rather induces it the pot or pan . It does this using a rapidly oscillating magnetic field . This field induces an electric current in a ferromagnetic pan which generates heat , thus heating the food . Induction stoves are faster , safer , and more energy efficient than traditional electric stoves . It requires significantly less electricity to create the magnetic field than it does to drive enough current through a resistor to make it heat up . They are safer because they do n't actually generate heat themselves . After taking a pot off the " burner " ( glass surface ) it quickly begins to cool . With regards to differences in the cooking process , there 's not much . You just need to be aware that it heats up much more quickly and cools down much more quickly than a traditional electric stove . It does affect your choice of pans however . All aluminum pans will not work , nor will some lower quality stainless steel ones . If a magnet sticks to the pan then it will work just fine . The pan must also have a flat bottom to make full contact with the surface .
I 've had good luck baking naan on an indoor grill . I have an electric one , but you could use a stovetop one as well . Just apply a little butter , ghee , or spray oil , wipe it off , and bake . ( Click for larger images ) <URL> <URL> I used an alternative method to make lavash : an inverted wok over a stove burner . You 'll need a gas stove to do this one . I applied them dry , cooked about 1-2 minutes on one side only . You can brush with butter or ghee after they 're done . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Some people say it 's just preparation and the base is the same ground corn / corn meal , some people say for grits you need ( more coarsely ) ground hominy ( which is corn that has been soaked in lye or lime ) . Polenta can be found loose and really solid : grits are generally loose . Corn type may also differ , as may the dish 's ' typical cultural trappings ' ( fat cheddar and bacon vs. leaner stuff )
end question
start question
What 's the best approach to baking bread with whole grains ?
I use whole grains in my bread - wheat , oats , quinoa , etc. . There are a couple considerations : 1 - rehydration If the grain wo n't be adequately rehydrated from just sitting in water for an hour then it should be precooked . Wheat berries , for example , definitely need to be cooked . They just wo n't get enough water or time in the dough while it is rising . A little experimenting may need to be done to get the water ratio right . 2 - sharpness Adding hard ingredients will change the dynamic of your dough kneading . For example , if you knead in a mixer then you might have to go at a slower speed to keep from shredding the gluten . Sprouting grains is fantastic . Sprouted grains are very nutritious and have a completely different flavor that I find very interesting . Sprouts also have a lot of sugar in them . I sometimes replace some of the sugar in my recipes with sprouted , dried , and ground wheat berries .
You want to use baking soda . Baking powder is used as a leavening agent and does this by combining an acid and a base , so it would not make your chicken more alkaline . Baking soda , on the other hand is just sodium bicarbonate and will make your chicken more alkaline . However , baking soda , especially if used in excessive amounts , will give your chicken a bad taste . Baking soda tastes bitter , and cooking it for too long at high heat exacerbates that . From reading online , it seems that adding baking soda will indeed make your chicken look much browner ( the same way that pretzels are dipped in lye to produce their brown colour ) , but it would affect the texture/taste of your chicken . If you want to add more flavour , I would think that properly browning the chicken ( using high heat , having patience ) would be more effective than adding baking soda , which might give the appearance , but not the taste .
In my experience , they 're best at concentrating mold spores , and hiding away unsightly loaves . While chic , and quite popular in the days before plastic bags , they 're not much use now . Pretty much the same as the " <URL> "
It is no different from other prototyping processes or exploratory research . You are not confirming a scientific hypothesis here , you are actively searching . So the most important thing is : fail fast . So , for the question of mini batches vs. large batches , you certainly need mini batches . And in cooking it is more important than in other fields , as humans have a very poor ability to remember or record sensory qualities . In tasting two muffins side by side , you will notice differences which would not be obvious from notes from previous batches . Another thing which people find hard to remember : beat the Not Invented Here syndrome ! There is a lot of information out there about which ingredient does what , which ratios are good for a given type of baked good , etc. . It is boring to research them if you could be baking instead - but in the end , experimenting alone in your kitchen without theoretical background will never give you results as good as those created by teams of specialists who have been doing this their whole life , and using other information sources beyond primary experimentation . So , as with any good research , formulate your question first , and be specific . Then search for answers to this question . Only after you have found the theory , experiment how it applies to your recipe . Randomly changing things and hoping that you will hit gold is what many people do , but it is the opposite of a best practice .
I am not a chemist , but my grandma always used to make bread ( and similar stuff ) with sparkling water instead of still water . She always mentioned that the result will be more fluffy and airy . This only addresses the question about the ( important ) consistency though , but I guess you should just try it out yourself . Edit : Some benefits of using sparkling water in the kitchen As this answer got downvoted to zero I guess my grandma was not convincing enough . So I asked a befriended chef who works at a luxury hotel chain in Germany . Here 's what he explained : Desserts can be made more creamy without actually adding cream . Here he gave examples of pudding/mousse-ish desserts Vegetables steamed with sparkling water results in less loss of color ( i.e. brighter colors ) , more crispyness , and stronger taste . He particularly recommended to try it with carrots , broccoli or cauliflower . You can add sparkling water to thick soups shortly before serving to get them more foamy . Similar with Salad dressings Last but not least he confirmed precisely what my grandma said . For doughs and similar stuff ( for salty or sweet dishes ) you would get a nice fluffy texture . Kudos to my grandma at this point .
The goal with ribs is " low and slow " cooking to break down connective tissue . But a quick sear will help to lock in juices and provide a good smoky flavor . I find it 's preferable to do this first so that the smokiness can work its way into the meat over the slow cook to come . After seasoning , I would start with a sear on your grill over direct heat ( 8-10 minutes per side ) . Then , either move to a very low indirect heat on the grill and cover , which will provide a more smoky flavor , or transfer to your oven at a very low temperature ( most home ovens go down to about 250F which is what I 'd use ) . Baste both sides every half hour or so if you 're using sauce . It should take about 2-3 hours at this low temperature to get good results , although you can let it go a lot longer if you want . I would have no problem at all cooking ribs for 6 , 8 , or 10 hours assuming you 've got the time . If you 're cooking on the grill the whole time , the smoke will help create a delicious glaze . If in the oven and the glaze is n't as thick as you 'd like by the time you 're ready to serve , you can crank on the broiler and place the ribs underneath for just a couple minutes to dry out the glaze a bit . You do not need to wrap them in foil during cooking if you have quality ribs and cook them slow . The only time I 'd wrap them in foil would be at the very end once you have finished cooking , in order to keep them warm until you 're ready to serve .
To answer your main question , you can bake very just about any type of fish . Looking at that recipe though , down in the " tips " section , it suggests you use a flaky white fish . So in that category , you have lots of options , snapper , cod , tilapia , for starters . Their flavours are often a little more mild and will pair nicely with the tomatoes and other flavours in there . If you 're prone to overcooking it , take it out sooner . I find many fish recipes that give cooking times tend to get you to overcook it . It 'd done as soon as the fish " flakes " fully . Leave it any longer it will start to toughen quickly .
Cut the sprout end off . Place the cut end on the board , slice the onion in half vertically ( i.e. place your knife on the root and cut down ) If the outer skin layer is nice and thick , pull it off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the outer skin is papery , pull it and one layer of onion flesh off from one corner . Repeat on other half . If the first layer of onion flesh is slightly dimpled or has a kind of matte finish , it 's probably turning ' skinny ' . Strip that off too .
A couple of things will help give you smaller holes : Keep the hydration reasonably low ( say , 60 % with American-style bread flour ) . Use some oil or butter . Try 10 % ( baker 's ratio ) . Knead very well , something like 10 -- 15 minutes in a stand mixer . After the first rise , normally you try to be gentle , and not press out all the air . Do n't . Instead , press it out . Bake in a moderate ( say , 350 ° F ) oven . You do n't particularly want much oven spring here . For even finer texture , part way through the second rise , you can press it out again , and let it start a third rise ( but not to double ) . Also , adding some whole wheat or rye flour will give a denser crumb . With different flavor , too , of course .
It depends greatly on how hungry I am . :-) 350F for about an 60-90 minutes , depending on how many are in there . 425F for about 40-60 if I 'm hungry and impatient . Microwave on high for a few minutes ( few holes poked in it with a fork ) if I 'm really hungry and really impatient . They 're done when a fork goes in easily .
Batter for pancakes is often nicer if it is left in the fridge for a few hours . I 'd make them fresh tonight with the batter you 're making for the couple you want now . Enjoy !
There is an optimal temperature to which they must be cooked , independent of method ( boiling , frying , whatever ) . This temperature is 50 deg . C. ( This is lower than safety guidelines ; if you want to eliminate the foodborn illness risk , you must eat rubbery seafood ) . Once the inner temperature of seafood has risen above that , its proteins undergo an irreversible change called denaturation , which changes the texture . The time needed for reaching this temperature varies a lot . It depends on the size of the prawns , their initial temperature , the temperature of your water , on the total mass of water in the pot and on the total mass of prawns in the pot . If you find it impractical to impale a prawn on a digital thermometer every time you cook , you need to experiment . Keep the variables I mentioned constant , and boil prawns for different times . Find out how much they need before they go rubbery , and then stick to it , keeping all the other variables constant . In your case , this will probably correspond to the three minutes you mention . For somebody else , who boils a different amount of prawns per batch , it will be different . There is no minimal time , just as there is no maximal time . The minimal temperature for them to taste cooked is 45 degrees C. , but you can eat them at lower if you do n't mind them tasting raw . You can find the minimum time for your case as described above . The legal minimum temperature for US food safety is 63 degrees . You ca n't legally approximate it by time , you must use a thermometer , or , at home , you can go much above it just to make sure - when seafood turns stiff and dry , you can be sure that it has reached 70 degrees .
All that is meant here by " turn out " is to take the mass that you have begun to mix in the bowl , and dump it all onto your ( floured ) counter to begin kneading . Turn out just means to dump . To move .
If corn syrup works , it seems to me that simple syrup ( i.e. a saturated solution of sugar and water ) ought to work , too .
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
Clean it immediately , before anything has a chance to dry . As soon as I 'm done grating anything , I run the grater under water and wipe it with a sponge . Wipe with the direction of the blades , then run a little water inside it . Optional : put the grater in the dishwasher to clean fully .
If you mean cleaning in terms of getting rid of the ' beard ' , use clean pliers and a lot of elbow grease . It 's hard to pull that out . If you mean just cleaning the shells , use a stiff bristled brush and scrub . If you mean cleaning the sand from the inside of the mussels , put the live mussels in a large container full of water and cornmeal and leave overnight in the refrigerator . The mussels should flush the sand out and replace it with cornmeal ( never tried this method , but I 've heard it works well . )
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
I 've seen bread recipes like the one that you described . When bread is baked in an oven with steam - the starch in the crust is able to gelatinize before it all dries out and becomes crispy . This is what makes the crust crisp , shiny , and delicious - characteristic of " artisan " breads . Most people do n't have steam enhanced ovens ( or the ability to hack their oven to add steam : <URL> ) The recipe you linked has water added for steam but then takes out extra insurance ( they cheat ) by adding the cornstarch glaze to mimic the effect . By adding extra , pure , starch on the surface of the loaf more gelatinization occurs . Additionally , cornstarch gelatinizes at a lower temperature that wheat starch . Conceivably , you should be able to use any starch and see similar results but , in the US at least , cornstarch is by far the most common . It should n't be necessary if you are able to produce enough steam in your oven .
Store them unwashed . Take out any " bad " ones . I 've had decent luck adding some paper towels to wick away extra moisture that seems to speed up the spoilage . <URL> . I have no idea who keeps a fridge empty enough that they can store full sheet pans in there , though . I 've never tried this , but <URL> . * shrug * Then of course , wash and freeze them spread out on a sheet pan ( to make it easier to separate later ) . I assume this is n't what you want to do , but it is very effective , depending on how you plan to use them .
end question
start question
Should I wash my pre-washed greens ?
I think that washing pre-washed greens is an issue of emotional security , if you do n't trust the purveyor . As the <URL> : Many pre-cut , bagged , or packaged produce items like lettuce are pre-washed and ready-to-eat . If so , it will be stated on the packaging . If the package indicates that the contents are pre-washed and ready-to-eat , you can use the produce without further washing . It certainly does no harm , but you then have to also dry them for most uses , so it is more work , and kind of redundant : you have paid a premium price to buy the greens already washed . If you are going to wash them yourself , why not buy less expensive produce , and perhaps have more control over what goes into your mix ?
Mincemeat originally had meat in it along with suet and a small amount of fruits and spices . As the cost of the fruits and spices dropped the quantities started to shift until now , you never see any meat at all besides the suet in traditional mincemeat . Victorian times they would make the mincemeat in the late fall and set it aside in the root cellar for about 8 weeks but evidently could be held for upwards to 6 months . The cool cellar and the high percent of spirits did n't cause much harm to them back then . The longer the better as the fruit and suet would absorb more flavours . Here 's a link to a Google book that has a recipe from 1786 : <URL> It does n't sound that great but then the really old dishes never were .
Most cakes freeze extremely well -- especially cakes that are not iced , such as bundt cakes . Wrap the cake in plastic wrap , then aluminum foil , and freeze . For cupcakes or slices , you can put them in a freezer bag . If you are going to freeze a whole cake , it is better to frost it after thawing , as the icing can be tricky . If you have icing , you can put the cake in the freezer long enough for the icing to br firm , and then wrap and freeze -- however , thawing can be tricky as you might get a bit of condensation , which can affect the texture of the frosting . EDIT in response to question about a plastic box , and why the double layering : Boxes consume space extra space , often at a premium in a freezer , and offer air gaps in which freezer burn is more likely . Not all plastic is food-safe . The food-safe plastic wrap is for direct contact with the cake but is gas permeable . I suppose you could just go directly to foil , but things are more likely to stick to it . The foil provides a gas and moisture barrier ( and light , but that is less of a problem in the freezer ) . The direct contact with the with the cake eliminates the air gaps , making freezer burn much less likely .
They should be fine . We sometimes do it in the morning for dinner and it gives no problem . Just make sure all the potatoes are covered with liquid , or those pieces would discolour .
In most contexts , I would assume that simply means the leaves from the herb parsley . Depending on where your recipe originates -- especially central Europe , or some Asian cultures -- parsley root may also be used , so the recipe might be trying to make that clear . I suspect , however , it really is the recipe author 's idiosyncratic style . Now , as to chopping them , that would depend on how it is used and what the rest of the recipe says .
Yes , preheating warns up the entire interior of the oven which is important for keeping the air hot such as when you open the door . It helps the oven bounce back to full heat much sooner . If you do n't preheat , it will take several minutes before the oven reaches proper cooking temps , and interfere with even heating . If you want to see the difference most dramatically , bake some chocolate chips . First without any preheating and then when those are supposed the be done , do another batch and bake them for the same amount of time . If you are baking something for an hour or more , it may not make much difference , but shorter baking times can be dramatically affected .
Browning ingredients ( both meat and vegetables including the aromatics ) before doing a braise or stew ( which is what slow cookers do ) helps develop depth of flavor , through the <URL> where proteins and carbohydrates react together to create a myriad of flavorful compounds . Vegetables that are high in sugar , such as onions or leeks , and even carrots may also have some <URL> , where sugars react with each other , again creating flavorful compounds . Especially with beef , these deep browned flavors are often what people associate with the product , and what they expect to taste . On the other hand , browning almost by definition overcooks the outside of meat well past well done , so it is somewhat drier and tougher , although this can be mitigated by a long braise Some experts recommend browning only on one side of cubed meat , to compromise between getting flavor development , and getting good texture . The one thing browning or searing does n't do is " seal in the juices " ; that is a myth that is well de-bunked . The choice to brown or not brown is one of taste and balance . It is traditional in many recipes , especially of Western European heritage . There are many traditions where browning is not as frequent , including true Mexican cuisine and many Asian cuisines . Choose what seems most appropriate and tasty to you in a given dish . Personally , I like the flavor development , and almost always opt for browning .
Hydraulic press juices such as the Norwalk first grind the produce into a pulp , then press the juice out of the pulp . The theory is that malic acid in green apple pulp can release more vitamins and minerals from the other vegetables and fruit . The hydraulic press action squeezes more juice out than other types of juicers . But you 're looking at $ 2500 for a Norwalk . Macerating juicers would be next , up around the $ 400 + mark . Gear crushing action , leafy vegetables no problem . Not as much juice extraction as the hydraulic press machines . Then would come auger style juicers , they easily handle leafy vegetables and wheatgrass , but give a little less juice than the macerating juicers . Finally the cheapest powered juicers , the centrifugal juicers . I 've had trouble using them for leafy greens as there are not solid enough to be forced chopping blades . Usually more solid vegetables are required to follow them to force them through . Here 's a paragraph from the popular Breville centrifugal juicer seen in the movie Fat , Sick and Nearly Dead : " If you are juicing herbs , sprouts or leafy green vegetables either wrap then together to form a bundle or juice them in the middle of a combination of ingredients to obtain the best extraction . If juicing herbs or leafy green vegetables on their own , the juice yield will be low due to the nature of centrifugal juicing , it is advised to juice them as with a combination of other fruit and vegetables " Carrots are fine in all the juicers .
I would sear . It is not necessary , really , but I prefer the texture and flavor that comes with a good sear . To me , while it would be moist and tender , it would also be rather uninteresting . Bear in mind much of this is driven by personal preference .
I 've never had them , but they are indeed edible . Due to the high amount of potassium in them they can be bitter . The <URL> ( lol ) even has <URL> , including several recipes . Excerpt : They ARE edible and are highly nutritive , rich in protein , minerals and vitamins . The tops of the carrots are loaded with potassium which can make them bitter , so the use of them in food is limited , but there some ideas and recipes below . The tops are antiseptic and can be juiced and used as a mouthwash . However , it is edible , so you may mix some in with a mixed lettuce salad . You may also use it for garnish . Combine your common sense and your creative skills , and invent something ! That 's what makes cooking fun . It is a form of art . Carrot greens are high in vitamin K , which is lacking in the carrot itself . Carrot tops are an outstanding source of chlorophyll , the green pigment that studies have shown to combat the growth of tumours . Chlorophyll contains cleansing properties that purify the blood , lymph nodes , and adrenal glands . Scientists have been unable to synthesize chlorophyll in the laboratory , but green plant foods contain sufficient quantities to protect the human body .
It takes more heat/time to safely cook sausage than it does to fully cook eggs . This would be especially true for omelettes , where the egg is in contact with the hot pan , and the filling only warms indirectly . Add your expectation to start with cold sausage , and cooking the sausage and egg at the same time seems like a really bad idea . ( Yes , you could just cook the whole assembly longer , but you 'd end up with seriously vulcanized eggs . ) Be safe : cook the sausage , and then add the eggs .
The answer depends on where you live , and what type you have brought . In many countries that import chickpeas they heat treat them to kill seed-borne diseases and insects . The heat treatment process makes them more difficult to cook , and soaking times double or triple . Beans from exporters with phytosanitary certificates can be imported without heat treatment ; these are the ones you want to get . I do n't think you can tell which is which by looking at them . At the moment we have some particularly dark , dry , and dead looking beans that soak up beautifully in 8 hours ! Soak non-heat treated beans for 8 to 12 hours , heat treated beans for 24 to 36 hours . Some overly heat treated beans will never fully revive , and you are best to return these to the shop as " faulty " . Soak and cook without salt , unless you are going to mash them . They fall apart more readily if salted . If you are not mashing them , the secret to great chickpea taste is after soaking and cooking in water , is to lightly fry them with a little olive oil until dark spot appear , keep them or the pan moving so none burn . Then add the sauce , or add them to whatever dish you are preparing .
Unless you freeze them yourself and do n't wash them first , no , you should not need to wash commercially processed frozen vegetables . Part of the process for freezing includes cleaning/trimming preparing the vegetables . Washing is unnecessary . Info <URL> : The actual process of freezing a food item varies somewhat depending on what is to be frozen . Peas are the most common frozen vegetable , having virtually replaced fresh peas in the American supermarket . The pea process is typical for many vegetables . A typical process for a frozen entrée follows . Picking and washing 2 The peas may be picked by hand or automatically . Then , a machine called a viner removes them from their shells . If the processing plant is adjacent to the fields , the peas are carted there . If truck transport is necessary , they are cooled with ice water and then packed in ice for transport . At the plant , the peas are dumped into beds and sprayed with water to remove dust and dirt .
Your experience with the curry is normal . Salt helps bring out and enhance existing flavors . This is true for everyone , as far as I know . Different people have different sensitivities , and want different amounts , but the effect is the same . Given that you thought the curry tasted better with it , I would n't be surprised if you should also be adding salt to other things - maybe just not as much as recipes typically call for .
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
I have looked extensively and it seems that whether to boil or steam is determined by region and it is as subjective as the fillings used . See below from this <URL> . Other variations include using black instead of white glutinous rice , or precooking the rice and filling , or steaming instead of boiling , or even wrapping into a cylindrical shape or a flat paddle shape instead of a pyramidal one . You may be able to make a decision based on certain factors of your recipe . For example : Some recipes call for the rice to be soaked while others call for it to be cooked . If I was using soaked rice I would probably choose boiling as the zongzi may become too dry with steaming . Same idea for other ingredients . Another consideration would be how well the zongzi are wrapped . If they are wrapped very skillfully , either way could work . However , if not , the filling could come out much easier with boiling . So , in the end , I would say that there really is n't a really definitive answer . I think I would use the method called for in the recipe as there may be specific reasons the prescribed cooking method was chosen .
There should not be any problems with mixing alcohol as long as you do n't introduce organics . I would suggest mixing the alcohols and leaving the lemon juice and splenda out until you pour a drink . Keeping alcohol cool and in a dark place . As for indefinitely , no . The amount of time it stays good is dependent on the amount of air in the bottle . Glass is always preferred if possible .
I would not recommend doing so . The technique you describe is known as <URL> , which as you might guess from the name is a <URL> in the French culinary tradition . It translates literally to " mount with butter " and is used to provide a rich , velvety mouthfeel to both white and brown sauces . By contrast , <URL> sauce originates in Japanese cuisine , which is a whole different tradition . Like Chinese cuisine and other east Asian cooking , Japanese cuisine does n't make use of much dairy , <URL> . Teriyaki sauce is generally a <URL> that gets its richness from a high proportion of sugar and can be thickened with cornstarch ( as seen in <URL> ) . You could try mounting a teriyaki sauce with butter , but my suspicion is that you might cause some of the sugar in the glaze to seize and crystallize by introducing cold butter ( as typically recommended when mounting ) and it would not be common in the culinary tradition that teriyaki comes to us from . So you can skip this step without causing any harm to your sauce or offense to any French or Japanese bystanders .
I fill a tall frying pan ( or pot ) with water . Add some white vinegar . Let it come to a boil Add the eggs . Do n't make it too overcrowded Take it out with a flipper or a spoon with holes when they look done .
I mix dough in my kitchenAide all the time , and this happens all the time , so through the process I check the consistency and dryness and I 've developed a feel for the " just right formula " , but being ADHD I do n't go in with precise measurements each time , but that would be a good idea once perfection is found . So anywho , I take a strong spatula from time to time and cut it of the hook , to give it a nice restart with hook on outside of dough ball . but your dough needs to be dry enough that it is cleaning itself off the bowl and it will the hook too . It 's designed to find that perfect balance so that it starts wet and sticky and then as the gluten starts to web it becomes self cleaning , and the kneading is drying it a little or maybe the material is absorbing the liquid , either way it goes from dry to wet . Another thing I do if the hook is wrapped in dough instead of working against the sides , I briefly turn up the speed and that will throw the dough to the sides and sometimes clean it .
end question
start question
Can I store bread dough overnight ?
Yes , it is possible , and in fact usually results in better bread , because the yeast has more time to work and develop flavour . It depends on the recipe , but you should usually reduce the amount of yeast being used to prevent overproofing . You can keep most doughs for a couple of days in the fridge , depending again on the amount of yeast and how often the fridge is opened . Simply mix and knead your dough as normal , cover it tightly with plastic wrap over the bowl , then put it straight in the fridge . You will usually need to allow a couple of hours the next morning for the dough to ' wake up ' and finish a full proof , but if your dough has fully risen in the fridge ( ie it has grown 1.5-2 times ) you can go straight to shaping .
Yes , you can refrigerate after the machine has kneaded the dough . Cover the bowl tightly . In the morning , take the dough out of the fridge and let it ' wake up ' in a warm place for an hour , cut and shape , then either prove them again or bake straight away ( a second prove will give you a lighter texture ) .
In the freezer , more-or-less indefinitely , depending on how good your freezer is . Certainly months to years . In the fridge , it depends on the kind of mole . Quick moles ( like various green moles ) do n't keep very long , maybe a week at most . A long-cooked mole should keep a bit longer -- up to 2 weeks -- since all of the ingredients are completely cooked . If you 're not planning to use it within a week , though , why not freeze it ? The texture wo n't take any harm from freezing and thawing .
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
There are several negative effects from over-kneading bread dough : Overheating - if the dough gets too warm , it will ferment too quickly ( or over ferment ) and will therefore lack flavour . Oxidisation - kneading for too long can cause the flour to oxidise and bleach , again impairing flavour . Breaking down - eventually the molecular bonds of the gluten will break , which is obviously not what you want to happen ! The latter two are really only possible with electric mixers , however . Most doughs are ready for fermentation when they reach an internal temperature of 77-81ºF ( 25-27 ° C ) . You can also check the gluten development with the Windowpane Test : pull off a chunk of dough and stretch it with your hands . It should stretch to form a very thin translucent sheet , without tearing .
It rather depends on the temperature of the room . Where I live , in the summer it gets hot and humid , and they should n't be out on the counter during the day , or they ferment . In winter ( like spring in the northern US , 45-70 farenheit ) they can be out for two days with no problem . My recommendation would be to soak overnight for morning use , or to soak during the day for evening use . It also helps to change the water every few hours , though this is n't critical . If you refrigerate them with the water , you get an extra half-day . Refrigerating drained gets another day or so . Either way , they should always be shaded , never in direct sunlight . If they do spoil , you 'll know , as they 'll have a sour/yeasty smell to them .
Kneading dough has a few functions . First , it distributes the ingredients together evenly and allows the flour to become hydrated . As the flour starts to absorb water , enzymatic reactions occur and some proteins begin to mesh together . The two most important in this process are glutenin and gliadin . When these proteins start to get tangled up together , they form gluten , which is the protein that allows bread dough to stretch and trap gas bubbles produced by yeast . These reactions will occur on their own to an extent , as in no-knead recipes , but kneading accelerates the process . Kneading also allows you to control the texture of the bread . A vigorous knead can help to produce a bread with a fine crumb as the kneading an tighten the gluten , keeping the air bubbles more uniform . Doing short kneading periods ( or folds ) spaced by time for the dough to relax and rise can give you more extensible dough which can help give you a more open crumb structure . Finally , kneading is sometimes used to add inclusions to the dough that would disrupt it 's activity if added to early . This can be things like seeds , which would cut gluten strands if included too early in the process , or things like butter in a brioche , which would shorten the dough if included before the gluten had already developed .
You do n't have to use water as the liquid in your bread . Enriched breads use milk and/or eggs . We have recently had questions about breads which use orange juice . On the technical side , you have to adjust recipe a little . Pickle juice does n't have much dissolved solids , so no need to adjust for that . However , it is very salty , so you should reduce or completely leave out the salt . The acidity will help with gluten development and also with breaking down the starches in flour to make them available for chemical reactions which produce more flavour , so this is a good thing to have . However , yeast itself has some strong pH preferences . It grows best in a slightly acidic environment , but if the dough gets too basic or too sour , it will slow down or not grow at all . I think that the diluted vinegar in the pickle water wo n't oversour the dough , but it would be a good idea to make the poolish with pure water and only add pickle water for the dough itself . As for taste , I ca n't say that much without ever having tried it , but my intuition says that you will get a whiff of pickles , but not a full-blown taste . After all , bread made with orange juice does n't taste like biting into an orange . I think you will notice the difference , but you will still have to add pickles to your sandwiches for taste ( and they are needed for the crunch anyway ) . As for horrible , it depends entirely on personal taste . I am not a fan of pickles or soured breads , and would n't eat it . There are people who drink the pickle water from the jar ; I think they will enjoy the pickle-smelling bread too . If you are a pickle fan , I think it is worth a try , if it does n't work , you only throw out under a dollar 's worth of ingredients .
You should be able to cut them , wrap them up , and freeze them to be baked and served the next day without a problem .
No , you probably do n't want to just squish leftover puff pastry dough together to save it . While it would be perfectly safe , it would ruin the layering that gives the rise and flakiness that is the reason for using puff pastry . If you have a large enough section still intact , you could put in the refrigerator for a day or two , to use later . Otherwise , a typical thing to do would be to prepare sweet or savory snacks with the surplus pieces . Cut it into convenient shapes . If you have large enough pieces , sticks would be good , even twisting them to give them an interesting texture . Then , brush the pieces with butter ( or oil ) , and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar ; or grated Parmesan cheese ; or rosemary and salt ; or some other complimentary flavor . Bake the pieces up until they are puffed and golden brown and they are very nice snacks or treats .
Using refrigerated biscuits for <URL> is actually just a convenient shortcut - if you do n't have pre-prepared biscuit dough at hand , you can simply make your own sweet yeast dough from scratch , that 's the classic ( pre-Pillsbury-can ) recipe . Either find a recipe that uses sweet yeast dough from scratch or substitute your favourite sweet yeast dough . ( The Wikipedia page linked above has a link to a recipe , for example . )
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
Traditional dough will not freeze well . You have to par-bake it . In the US , the & ldquo ; freshly baked & rdquo ; bread sold in most supermarkets is par-baked dough . This is risen dough , which is then baked for 70 to 80 % of the usual baking time , cooled , frozen , and shipped to the supermarket , where it is baked again until golden . You could do the same . A par-baked baugette is a bit denser than a traditional one . Freezing the dough before baking it kills most of the yeast preventing it from working during the first stages of baking .
Allowing dough to rise twice results in a finer gluten structure than allowing it to rise once . It results in a smaller crumb and prevents huge gaping airholes in your bread . The reason that you have to let it re-rise is that you just pushed all the air out with the kneading you did developing that gluten structure .
... as long as it needs to , depending on a wide variety of factors . You can shape it for baking , put it in the fridge , let it rise , pull it out of the fridge and put it in the oven - no warming up time at all . If you are going to punch down/knead/form after it comes out of the fridge , you can do all that cold , and let it rise as long as it needs to before baking - which will depend on the dough and the room temperature . Or you can let the bulk dough warm a while .
My bread machine recipe books come with conversion instructions to make the bread traditionally . Here is a link to a site that will do the same : <URL> Best of luck with your bread making !
I regularly store chopped onion in my refrigerator ( or at least halves &amp; quarters ) . I either use tight-sealing plastic containers or zip-top bags . You may want to double-bag in zip-tops to be sure to avoid a smell . One problem you may be having is onion-ness getting on the outside of the container . Be sure the outside is all clean and dry - no point in having a nicely sealed packet of onion when the outside can get all stinky anyway .
Yes , it is possible , and in fact usually results in better bread , because the yeast has more time to work and develop flavour . It depends on the recipe , but you should usually reduce the amount of yeast being used to prevent overproofing . You can keep most doughs for a couple of days in the fridge , depending again on the amount of yeast and how often the fridge is opened . Simply mix and knead your dough as normal , cover it tightly with plastic wrap over the bowl , then put it straight in the fridge . You will usually need to allow a couple of hours the next morning for the dough to ' wake up ' and finish a full proof , but if your dough has fully risen in the fridge ( ie it has grown 1.5-2 times ) you can go straight to shaping .
You absolutely do n't need a bread maker for good bread . They have been making bread for at least 22,000 years and I promise , in the vast majority of those , having a bread maker would have gotten you stoned as a witch ( if you had electricty to run it ) . However , a good bread maker will vastly cut down on the time you have to spend making bread . Basically , bread by hand requires a few hours and lot of physical kneading to develop the gluten that gives bread it 's structure and in a bread machine , you dump the ingredients in , turn it on and walk away , then come back and enjoy some fresh bread .
You should n't have any problem . Bacteria need sufficient water to survive , a few drops wetting the sugar are not sufficient for them . As far as I 'm aware , even old-style jam ( 1 part fruit to 1 part sugar , boil some of the water out ) is shelf-stable . Even if you are close to the limit , it 's still not too concerning . The good news is that , when you preserve something with sugar , and get a bit too low on the sugar , it 's not bacteria that colonizes it first , it 's mold . The mold can be toxic on its own - but it 's nicely visible . So , as long as you do n't have a sticky mass and see mold growing on it , the sugar should be safe . It can be hard to work with though - we have an old question on getting lumped-together brown sugar out of the container , if you need it .
end question
start question
Can I use southeast asian fish sauce as a marinade ?
No , it 's not unusual at all . See <URL> for examples where nuoc-mam is used to marinate chicken , or just type nuoc mam marinade in Google :) There are a lot of examples , including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or even <URL> marinated ( as well as <URL> , of course ) with nuoc-mam ( and most of the time lemongrass ) , and a fair share of them are recipes by ' natives ' from South-East Asia , not only fusion food addicts ( even if <URL> ! ) . Some salads like goi tom or goi ga also involve nuoc mam marinade .
I grew up with a Vietnamese mother that used to put fish sauce in nearly everything . While I ca n't exactly recommend all of her uses ( she once used it in a texas beef chili -- was not good ) , there are a few techniques that are good to know . A common method to create a savory sauce is to use fish sauce with sugar at a 2:1 ratio . For example , you can make <URL> by sauteeing fried tofu with diced tomatoes and adding 2tbsp of fish sauce to 1tbsp of sugar . This ratio can also be used in stir-fries . I would make sure to turn on your air vents when doing this -- the smell of fish sauce hitting a hot pan is ... different than what most people are used to . It works as a savory salt alternative in a lot of dishes . I use it to season fried rice instead of using salt or soy sauce . It generally is a good idea to add this during the cooking process , so the liquid can reduce and meld with the food . It can also be used to quick brine ground pork for savory asian dishes . I 'd add somewhere in the vicinity of a tbsp per pound of ground pork . I use this technique when making Thai <URL> . There are probably other marinating/brining applications , but I do n't have much personal experience with that . You can also use fish sauce to create a wide variety of dipping sauces -- in general it is paired with something sweet ( sugar or rice vinegar ) to help balance out the saltiness . It is also commonly watered down ( <URL> ) in vietnamese dipping sauces to keep it from being too overpowering . On a personal note , my favorite use is straight up on crispy fried eggs ( slightly runny yolk ) over white rice . It is n't for everyone , but it 's something I 've been making and enjoying for years .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
You will need to be careful about extra liquid in your sauce . Your base recipe should be adaptable . Go ahead and use the garlic and onion , but I would omit the white wine . If you are using canned whole tomatoes , drain liquid before using them . Simmer it to reduce it down until it is " spreadable " rather than " pour-able " . We make a lot of home-made pizza sauce with canned whole San Marzano tomatoes , drained and puree 'd in blender . Salt , pepper , garlic and a few spices . My husband loves bright red color in the sauce so a bit of citric acid does the trick . Enjoy your pizza .
The first thing I have to say is kebabs and overcooked are synonymous . If you want all your meats and/or veggies to be cooked right , I would advise you to put each item on it 's own skewer so you can take them off as they are finished . As for a broiler and broiler plate functioning as a substitute for a grill , I would say that it wo n't be an exact substitute , but you will at least get the high temperature cooking and caramelization you would expect from a grill ( you will just be missing the smoke flavor ) .
Pineapple contains <URL> , which is " one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing . " Since it 's sold as a meat tenderizer , I 'd say it really just depends on how long you marinate with it -- it 's possible to over-tenderize something . <URL> warns about over marinating , and mentions recommended times : The same process that tenderizes steak can also break it down into mush if you marinate it too long in the pineapple , and it 'll start distorting the meat 's color and taste . For cuts thinner than 1 inch , stick to about 10 to 15 minutes of soak time ; for moderately thick steaks of 1 to 1 1/2 inches , marinate for roughly 15 to 20 minutes ; and for thicker steaks , marinate for about 30 minutes .
That advice is n't " wrong " and millions of people keep keep fish sauce in a cabinet for decades . Regarding safety , it 's generally OK to store fish sauce at room temperature for years , but that is n't recommended by government worrywarts for best quality . <URL> . Pathogens run in fear faced with this stuff , but it can ( rarely ) develop " offness " . It is conservative to even bring up this article from <URL> : The fish-sauce-making process is carefully controlled to prevent the growth of dangerous bacteria . First , whole , tiny fish ( predominantly anchovies ) are combined with salt in roughly a three-to-one ratio . The mixture is then tossed into either concrete or wooden tanks . Enzymes contained within the cells of the fish flesh degrade the proteins , fats , and other molecules into amino acids ( compounds responsible for the deeply savory flavor in fish sauce ) , eventually liquifying the solid tissue . The salt accelerates this process , known as protein hydrolysis , by causing the fish cells to open up , which releases the enzymes . The briny conditions in the tank keep most microbes and all pathogens at bay , but some harmless , extremely salt-tolerant bacteria , known as halophilic bacteria , survive . These occur naturally in the guts , mouth , and skin of the decomposing anchovies . They too break down the fish proteins , yielding various acids , alcohols , and nitrogen compounds that give fish sauce its characteristic cheesy , meaty flavors . But by the end of fish sauce 's six - to twelve-month fermentation period , the salt has managed to kill even the hardiest halophilic bacteria . At this point , the clear , amber liquid in the tanks is filtered , and any sediment is discarded . The fermentation process does such a good job of killing off bacteria that no pasteurization is required . There is no legal requirement in the U.S. for fish sauce to bear an expiration date , but most manufacturers put dates on the label anyway , since people are more inclined to trust foods that tell us when they should be discarded . These dates tend to be three to four years from the date of manufacture , which is actually on the conservative side in light of industry guidelines . The Handbook of Indigenous Fermented Foods in the ASCA Countries ( published by the Association for Science Cooperation in Asia , a science-policy organization ) ascribes to the condiment a shelf life of five years . This is is n't to say fish sauce will always be good , either before or after the use-by date ( though you should always refrigerate it after opening ) . It can deteriorate in quality over an extended period of time due to chemical reactions , resulting in color changes or the development of " off " flavors . On rare occasions mold or yeast might develop on the inside surface or lip of the bottle where there 's excess moisture and less salt . These growths are usually innocuous , but as with any food , if it looks strange , smells strange , or tastes strange , you should throw it out . So , grudgingly , I say throw this batch out 'cause it 's fuzzy . But do n't lose any sleep over it . Next time buy a bottle that you 're likely to use within a couple of years and keep it in the fridge after opening .
I agree with yossarian , if I question it , I chuck it . Although in this case , the salmon probably will not harm you , it might just taste bad . Loss of moisture ( freezer burn ) , taking on of flavours , etc. . I would n't eat it because it would n't taste great . My father-in-law would eat it , because you do n't throw out food ( his rule ) . Bottom line , if it has been in the freezer for those two years straight , it wo n't give you food poisoning or harm you . It 's just a matter of palate . But rest assured , it wo n't taste great .
Yes , you can . In professional kitchens , virtually all ovens are convection , and they work just fine . You may need to reduce the heat about 25 degrees .
First , you do n't specify if you mean cream of coconut , or coconut milk . I think coconut milk would be the thing to try here , as it has less fat . Second , if it works , it wo n't be bechamel any more . But this is a technical detail : if it is tasty to you , you should be able to use it as a substitution practically everywhere . Third , does it work ? I have n't tried it , but I would strongly assume that it will . Coconut milk has more fat than normal milk , but this is n't a terrible problem for roux-based sauces . Indeed , I have read recipes ( in reliable cookbooks ) which direct the cook to add melted butter to the roux before or after adding the liquid . Which means that the fat ratio in the sauce is n't too exact ; it is the ratio of flour to water which you have to keep straight . The one thing to pay attention to is that coconut fat melts around 34-35 ° C . So your coconut roux sauce will exhibit noticeable difference in thickness depending on the temperature . As long as you serve it warm , it will be a similar thickness to bechamel . If you let it go cold , it will probably thicken quite a bit . If you plan to serve it cold , adjust the flour amount accordingly .
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
Sardines are canned , which means the high heat of a pressure canner . That is what softens the bones . If you are wanting softer bones for other kinds of fish , you can either cook them using a pressure cooker or can them . However , this will only work for smaller fish that have smaller bones . If your main concern is that you will swallow a bone and choke , then buy your fish as fillets only . Most fish fillets have no bones at all . The pin bones that are in salmon fillets can be removed with needle nose pliers , and are so small that you could n't choke on them if you tried .
I use a similar recipe , unfortunately I do n't remember the original source , but I 've changed over time anyway . Things I do n't use that you have in your recipe : Sugar Jack Daniels Cider Vinegar Worcestershire sauce mustard Things I do use : Lots of fresh ground spices . Typically 4 or 5 cloves , teaspoon of cumin seeds , tablespoon of fennel seeds , black pepper and salt . Fresh herbs , including Rosemary , Bay and thyme Balsamic vinegar - about half a bottle of inexpensive stuff Orange zest - zest of one whole orange Smoked Paprika - about 4 heaped teaspoons Olive oil - about 4 tablespoons grind-up the spices and place in the marinade tray . medium fine chop the fresh herbs ( leave the fresh bay leaves whole ) with the orange zest and a whole bulb of garlic , then add to the spice mixture . To that add juice from an orange , the Balsamic , followed by the ketchup and olive oil . Mix well . Score the meat well and add to the marinade tray . rub the marinade mixture into all the scores so that the meat is well penetrated . Cover the tray with foil and cook in an oven for about an hour ( depends on the meat and the amount ) once it 's out of the oven it can be placed on the barby .
As long as you complete the salmon 's cooking in the sauce , it 's fine . If you 're not sure when the salmon 's done by your method , I 'd suggest completing its cooking in the microwave as directed by the package and then adding it to the pasta and sauce just before preparing to serve the dish .
It might be there for body , but more likely for the umami kick that tomato past helps with . I bet you could leave it out with no ill effect ... otherwise , try some ketchup . You could also open the small can , use what you need and put the rest in a baggy in the freezer .
I think just about any large flaky-fleshed fish that 's not too fatty is a good candidate for ceviche . Salmon can work , though it 's a tad fatty . Tuna is not a good choice , in my opinion . Cod and any kind of bass can work really well . I would think haddock or even sole or flounder could work too . There is lots of white-fleshed fish available in the North Atlantic , and many will do great in ceviche . Take a look at the flesh and see if it seems similar to what you would usually use , and when in doubt ask the fishmonger for advice . Even if they do n't know ceviche , if you can tell them what fish you 'd usually use , they can probably advise you on substitutes .
A few tips : Marinate the meat first ( after chopping , before stir-frying ) ; Mix the sauce first - do n't just dump the ingredients separately into the wok ; Add corn starch or tapioca flour to the sauce to thicken it . I would n't even call it a sauce without any thickening agent . About 1 tbsp per cup of sauce should be alright . ( Note : The sauce should be about 50-60 % water , do n't use a whole cup of soy sauce ! ) Add some other savoury or flavour-enhancing ingredients to the sauce - i.e. toasted sesame oil , rice vinegar , brown sugar/honey . And ditch the oregano . Briefly steam the vegetables in the wok - add just a little bit of the sauce , then cover it for a few minutes . This will make them much more tender after frying . ( Note that this only applies to hard vegetables like carrots , celery , broccoli , etc. - add the soft vegetables afterward ) Add minced garlic with the ginger . The two go together like white on rice .
In general , it is a good idea to go light on spices when trying a new recipe , if you 're not intimately familiar with the flavor and spice combinations in question . It 's a great deal easier to add spice later than it is to mask it once you 've added too much . Assuming you are reading this because you did n't do that , and have now ended up with a sauce that 's far too spicy , then read on . The pertinent question here is where is the spiciness coming from ? There are actually several kinds of compounds that can produce that general aroma and/or sensation . In most dishes they 'll tend to fall loosely into one or more of the following : <URL> , which is the active alkaloid in black pepper . This has poor solubility in water , however , it has better solubility in alcohol . If you can incorporate wine or better yet , brandy or vodka or some other strong alcohol , this can go a long way toward reducing the heat from pepper . <URL> , the heat-producing compound in most types of hot peppers , is the highest on the <URL> ; extremely piquant and can produce a " burning " sensation in very small quantities . It is also poorly soluble in water , but is far more soluble in fat , especially oils . Adding some olive oil or a good quantity of butter to your recipe is a good bet for reducing capsaicin/capsicum heat . Garlic , onion , and other members of the <URL> family put out a volatile sulfur compound called <URL> . Although this is not " spicy " in the same sense as pepper , many people perceive it as such . Like piperine , it is more soluble in alcohol than in water . However , and here 's the catch : That allicin breaks down into various <URL> when cooked , and those polysulfides are fat soluble . So if you 're trying to mask a strong garlic or onion flavour , it 's best if you can add alcohol and fat to cover all your bases . If you 've added too much Ginger - another ingredient often perceived as spicy - then you 're dealing with <URL> and <URL> , the latter of which pack a much bigger punch . One of the things you can actually do with ginger is <URL> which converts those into much milder <URL> . In other words , add some water to the sauce and then boil it to reduce the sauce again - you 'll lose some flavour but in the process you 'll break down the ginger spice . Alternatively ( for ginger ) , all of the above compounds are alkali soluble , so if you add a buffering agent - say , <URL> ( additive E331 ) , it will improve the solubility a great deal . If , like most people , you do n't happen to keep food additives in your kitchen , you can try using something like baking soda , but too much of that will completely ruin the taste , so be careful . In fact , do n't add too much of any buffer because the acidity of most sauces is an integral part of their flavor . I think that about covers it for common " spicy stuff " that goes in sauces . If you want to fix a dish that 's too spicy , you need to know where the spice is coming from and choose what 's most appropriate for that particular sauce . You can also try to mask or balance the spice with something sweet , for example roasted vegetables or plain old sugar . That will not eliminate the heat at all , but does seem to make it more tolerable for many .
If your caramel rolls are the kind with a sticky , gooey mass in the bottom of the pan that is flipped upside down out of the pan , then I would say that the rolls wo n't really get good and caramely in a stoneware pan . You 'd be better off baking one pan of rolls at a time in the metal pan . While one pan is rising and baking , just chill the other part of the dough ... either plain in a bowl , or prepared into a log that only needs to be cut . If the caramel rolls are more like a cinnamon bun , then the stoneware dishes should do fine in a pinch . This is assuming they are glazed stoneware and not terra cotta . Cooking time will increase a bit as the stoneware will take longer to heat up ( it will also retain the heat longer when removed from the oven ) . You could always just go out and buy some foil pans . I do that when I make rolls ( caramel , cinnamon , and sticky ) for the local fire company 's carnival . They go through 17 = 20 dozen rolls each year . I know baking rolls can be a lot of work , so what I have found to be very helpful , is to make the dough the night before baking . Cover with cling film , and let it have a slow rise in the fridge all night . ( you will get improved flavor too . ) The next day , divide the cold dough up and prepare as usual . They will take a little longer for the rise in the pan after shaping , but it sure is a lot easier on you .
end question
start question
Can I roast peanuts in convection microwave ?
In the <URL> , Madhur says one of the few uses she 's found for a plain microwave oven is to roast cashews . She dresses them in a little bit of oil , then spreads them out on a plate in a single layer and cooks them in the microwave oven until they turn brown . I assume dressing them in a little bit of oil helps browning . I found <URL> for cashews and other nuts , but which implies the oil contained in the nuts themselves is enough to get them to brown . And finally , about.com has a page which is specifically about <URL> .
Per the <URL> , frozen chicken should not be cooked in a slow-cooker or a microwave . It can only safely be cooked in the oven or on the stovetop . A similar warning is given for <URL> as well .
I have used some of the poppers which use " concentration disks " made by several sources , and will say I have had much better results with them than paper bags . Popping time tends to be fairly consistent with much fewer unpopped kernels than a dry paper bag . It only takes a couple batches to know what the popping time is for your microwave . If time starts to increase or yield goes down with more unpopped or under-popped kernels , time for a new disk or your corn has gone stale . It does cost more than paper sandwich bags , but with not burning batches and less loss and trouble , I personally found it worth it and probably a push on price . And you need to make sure you keep a supply of the disks . Usually it seemed 8-10 batches per disk before they would start to tear and need replaced . I have not tried the ones which do not use the disks so can not compare them .
Microwave ovens cook primarily by spinning water molecules . Frozen water is less susceptible to this affect . I would guess that with certain vegetables , as frozen water turns to a liquid , it is quickly heated to the point that it boils and evaporates . The heating is less even than cooking frozen vegetables in a pot and leads to areas that are somewhat dehydrated and fibrous . Try cooking your frozen vegetables in a container with a lose cover and additional water . This will allow them to cook or steam from the the outside in much like in a pot . <URL>
Raw Personally , growing up I 've usually just eat it raw after it 's ripened . That 's the only form that i 've a experienced a persimmon . Nonethless , a quick google reveals use as a sauce : This morning , I cooked the last of the mushy persimmons into a second batch of persimmon sauce . The first , served over bread pudding on a whim one evening , was so popular that it was deemed worthy of the last persimmons . It 's simple and delicious , primarily because , as I discovered , a generous serving of nutmeg and a bit of meyer lemon is the best way to season persimmon anything ! Source : <URL> In this article , Oakland Garden Kitchen blogger , also lists a recipes for <URL> published by David Lebovitz . Lebovitz has a very comprehensive <URL> . Persimmon in Bread In this blog , he provides an adaptation of <URL> , " Beard on Bread " , Persimmon Bread recipe . If you do n't like this version of the recipe . Epicurean has <URL> . Persimmon as an Entree Wine Press NW also once published a recipe of use of persimmon as a <URL> .
I do n't think a pork sirloin roast will stand up to that kind of cooking very well . That is a very lean piece of meat , which does not lend itself to long cooking times at low temperatures . That type of cooking is best reserved for cuts of meat with lots of fat and/or connective tissue . If you put a pork sirloin roast in your cooker for 8 hours on low , you 're going to have one tough , dry piece of meat when you are through . You would be better served by cooking it in the oven at higher heat , for a relatively short period of time , like 400F for an hour or so . Bear in mind , you 're not going to get to a fall-apart tender state with a sirloin roast . This is n't a pork butt with which you 're dealing , which you 'd take up to an internal temperature of 195F or more . Rather , you 're going to want to target the safe temperature , and no higher . You want the meat to be juicy . Cut into thinner slices to achieve maximum tenderness .
If it 's been fully cured ( smoked , then hung for a few months ) , it likely just needs to be warmed through for serving ( or even just sliced ) . If it 's soft , you might need to cook it , and then you could roast it in the oven ... a crock pot might be okay ; it 's hard to say without having seen it . But if it 's quite firm , I 'd likely just slice pieces off like you might other dry cured hams like <URL> , <URL> , jamón or <URL> . If it 's heavily salted , I 'd be more likely to use it as a flavoring than a meat -- cut off bits , and add to vegetable dishes when cooking . It goes great with dark greens or in bean dishes . ( I just had an excellent bean &amp; ham soup last night at a meeting that a few of us treat as a pot-luck )
You can stage pan pizzas ( chicago style , or pizza hut style ) for up to four hours as long as you keep them covered . You can stage a stretched dough for up to an hour and a half between two pieces of wax paper . However , you need to take the time into consideration when proofing your dough so that you do n't get blown dough as that will not be delicious . You should not sauce the crusts or top them as pre-saucing will change how your dough cooks in the oven . If the dough forms a harder crust / dries out , you should consider tossing it as it will not result in good pizza after cooking .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
Metal on its own does n't necessarily cause electric discharge in a microwave . What causes the sparking that you see when you put a fork in a microwave is due to the " sharp " edges of the fork . These edges concentrate the voltage at their tips which will cause a spark when it exceeds the dielectric breakdown of air . Things like sheet pans ( with rounded edges ) , or rounded metal racks are used frequently in microwaves with no ill effect . The absence of any pointed edges allows this . The rim of your bowl fits this requirement .
The conversion depends on what the recipe says to do for a grill . If the recipe says to preheat the grill to high ( for gas ) or create two beds of charcoal under both halves ( for charcoal ) , then preheat the broiler on your convection toaster oven and broil the food items on a rack set in a pan or on a grill insert . If the recipe has a specific temperature , lower that by 25 degrees and use the convection cycle . If the recipes does n't give a specific temperature but instead suggests indirect grilling ( where one side is higher and the food is on the low side or using a higher rack ) , use a lower temperature in your oven , perhaps 325 , and cook as suggested . That kind of recipe will probably take the most trial and error .
I know it 's a old post . . But I just made toast in my microwave/convection combo and its ' good . . I defrosted my bread in the microwave , the put it on a the metal rack for 10 minutes at 425 . It worked !!! I know it 's 10 minutes but it allowed me to cook the eggs etc. . .
You can refrigerate all kinds of yeast-bread dough . Right after kneading , before the dough has had a chance to rise , oil the dough lightly , cover with plastic wrap or use a ziplock , and place in the refrigerator . As the dough cools in the refrigerator the action of the yeast will slow down until the dough has reached refrigeration temperature . At that point the yeast is still working , but at a snail 's pace . So , during the first few hours in the fridge it may require a punch down or two , as there may still be enough warmth in the dough for the yeast to show active signs of life . After the dough is completely cool , it may not need anything from you , but still check it at least every 12 hours or so - it may need another punch down . If at any point it grows to close to double it 's original size , go ahead and punch it down . Most doughs will be fine if babysat like this for up to 3 or 4 days . When you 're ready to bake , punch down the dough again ( if necessary ) , shape , and allow to rise as if it had never taken its little nap in the refrigerator . Of course this rise is going to take longer than non-refrigerated dough as it reaches room temperature , but it should be ready to bake when it looks like a non-refrigerated dough of the same type would look when it 's ready to bake . Bake as usual . I 'm sure there are exceptions to the basic rules I 've set out , but I 've never had a problem doing this with any yeast-bread dough .
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
They 're the same thing - convection ovens are also known as fan-assist ovens ( see for example <URL> ) , since they 're basically an oven with a fan . Maybe what you had previously was marketed as a fan-assisted oven , and threw out the phrase " conventional cooking " to emphasize that you can still do everything you conventionally could . But it sounds like you 're just talking about two different convection ovens here . More likely , the problems you 're having are to do with either the convection being more efficient in your new oven , or the temperature control being off on one of the two . Ovens are n't always perfect , so likely your new oven is hotter when you set it to a given temperature than the old one . It might also have a more efficient fan . You can probably learn to adjust by trial and error - reduce temperatures , and check things frequently until you figure out you 've gotten it right . It might also be helpful to grab a thermometer and see if your new oven is lying to you about the temperature . ( If you were previously using non-convection recipes in a convection oven , without adjustment , then your old oven was probably either too cool or its fan was n't doing much . If you were adjusting recipes for convection previously , then maybe your new oven is hotter than it should be . )
Properly ? You throw it in a pit with hard wood coals for at least 8 hours . Of course we do n't refer to that as roasting . :) Oven roasting is easier . Turn the oven on to 250F or so . Put something flavorful on the roast . Stick in a probe thermometer and put it in the oven . Remove when the thermometer reads 150F . Let it rest for a few minutes before carving . For more color and fat rendering you can roast at 450F for 10 minutes before dropping the oven to 250F and putting in the thermometer . Flavorings are varied of course . Apple works well .
Poke them with a fork in a few places . This will let the steam out in a controlled manner and prevent bursting . or , even better , skip the microwave and boil them in a pan over the stove .
It is a combination of a regular convection oven with a microwave , so you have both hot air and microwaves cooking your food . So the advantage is you get the quick interior heating of the microwaves combined with the surface browning from the hot air ; convection just makes that hot air cooking faster and more even .
Roasting the bones first will add a deeper flavor . The roast flavor may or may not be desired , it depends on your preferences . This is from the article I 've posted below : " Roasting caramelizes them , heightening sweetness and deepening flavor . But any blackening will make meat stock bitter . ' You do n't want that burned bone thing , ' cautions Keller . " <URL>
I would imagine the commercial choppers used for McDonald 's nuts generate the same amount of dust . They probably sell that dust for some other purpose . The dust should be easy enough to remove : just shake them around in a strainer .
end question
start question
Should I brine a goose ?
No . The fat content of goose , like most waterfowl , is very high . This makes it unsuitable for brining . Brining is intended to bring moisture to meats that tend to dry out , such as chicken and turkey . See <URL> to " <URL> " for more details .
Wash your hands thoroughly and frequently . See <URL> . Do not at any point cough into your hands . Coughing into a sleeve is considered less likely to transmit germs . To really prevent breathing on your food and potentially transmitting germs that way , you could consider wearing a mask . Personally I 'd consider the last step optional ( and the other two not ) .
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
Anything that outgasses ethylene should be kept away from other items ( both fruits and vegetables ) , in a well-ventelated area , if possible . Apples and bananas are the two most common culprits , but the list is much longer . Subzero has a <URL> , which I 'm reproducing below in case of link rot : Ethylene producing foods apples apricots avocados ripening bananas cantaloupe cherimoyas figs honeydew kiwifruit mamey sapote mangoes mangosteen nectarines papayas passion fruit peaches pears persimmons plantains plums prunes quince tomatoes Ethylene sensitive foods unripe bananas green beans Belgian endive broccoli Brussels sprouts cabbage carrots cauliflower chard cucumbers eggplant leafy greens lettuce okra parsley peas peppers spinach squash sweet potatoes watercress watermelon
It should be firm , not mushy , but not rock hard either . The most important thing , however , is smell . An unripe pineapple wo n't smell like anything . An overripe pineapple will smell vinegary . A ripe pineapple will smell sweet .
Ehow has an article on the specific dangers non-stick coatings can cause to humans and pets including fumes from heating a pan to too high a temperature , which I was unaware of . Of course , if the coating is flaking or fuzzy-looking , actual coating material , which is a carcinogen , can leach into the food cooked in the pan . Link to the Ehow article : <URL>
It does n't really matter . A lot of people cook them with peel still on and peel it with their hands when cooked ( Careful , hot ! ) . You can peel them before you cook them , and then it 's just a question of taste I 'd say . Personally , I would peel off the white as well , though I 'm not sure about this .
If you are using a additional containers or surfaces in the oven for baking , you should absolutely pre-heat it with the oven . Use an IR thermometer to measure the actual temperature of the container - a dutch oven or heavy stone will take longer to come up to temperature than the air in the oven will , so the oven will claim to be preheated sooner than it is actually ready . Remember that temperature and heat are two different things - one of the benefits of using a baking stone or dutch oven or other " heavy " thing is that it stores a lot of HEAT . Air at 450F and Cast Iron at 450F contain very different amounts of heat , and it is heat that will bake your bread . You can tell that they have soaked up as much heat as they can when their temperature is close to your oven set-point , which will take a while . The only possible exception to this would be if you are just using a thin sheet metal steam tray to cover your pizza stone to trap steam , since it has so little thermal mass . A thin tray could probably be put over the bread without preheating the tray since it wo n't absorb or store much thermal energy . To prevent burning , choose containers with a good , solid handle , and get quality oven mitts , preferably with long-ish sleeves to protect your forearms .
I think that washing pre-washed greens is an issue of emotional security , if you do n't trust the purveyor . As the <URL> : Many pre-cut , bagged , or packaged produce items like lettuce are pre-washed and ready-to-eat . If so , it will be stated on the packaging . If the package indicates that the contents are pre-washed and ready-to-eat , you can use the produce without further washing . It certainly does no harm , but you then have to also dry them for most uses , so it is more work , and kind of redundant : you have paid a premium price to buy the greens already washed . If you are going to wash them yourself , why not buy less expensive produce , and perhaps have more control over what goes into your mix ?
An0r4k , I assume that you 're making a cup of black ( ? ) tea and steeping some lemongrass in it . If so , perhaps you should make the black tea very weak as its tannins might be amplifying the ( pleasant ) slight bitterness of the lemongrass to distasteful levels . Alternatively , if you are steeping the lemongrass in hot water , try removing the outer layers of the lemongrass stalk . If they are old or tough , this can increase the bitterness of the drink . In any case , check that there is n't any dirt trapped between the layers of the lemongrass . Some recipies call for putting the lemongrass into water , bringing it to a boil and then letting it simmer for 10-15 minutes . I have n't tried this . Even if it does produce a smoother taste , then the boiling might well degradge any health-giving nutrients from the lemongrass .
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
Short answer : Brining after boiling wo n't do much ( if anything ) , and you probably do n't want to boil all parts of the chicken anyway . One primary purpose of brining is to hydrate the cells of the muscle tissue before cooking , which allows the cells to hold on to more moisture during the cooking process via denaturation of the proteins . If you cook the meat first , then the heat will permanently denature the proteins first , so the brine will essentially be useless . The reason why you want to pre-cook chicken wings is that ( a ) they have a lot of fat which melts off into the cooking liquid , and ( b ) they have a good amount of connective tissue ( collagen ) which needs to be cooked low and slow to soften into delicious gelatin . Most of the other parts of the chicken do n't have nearly as much fat and collagen , so boiling them would likely only serve to overcook them .
Hot peppers wo n't work with brine , as brine is water-based and capsaicin ( the pepper hotness ) is not soluble in water . You would need an oil-based marinade to pass the ' heat ' .
You do n't have to peel garlic before using a garlic press , but doing so lets you press more garlic before you have to clean out the skins and so forth . If you only need to press a clove or two , there is not a lot of reason to peel first , since you will just have to clean the press out once .
It is perfectly safe to eat the peel in and of itself . You will need to make sure that you wash it properly , as it may be dirty . But beyond that , it 's simply a matter of taste . A lot of people do n't like the flavor / texture of the peel and so remove it . From a <URL> : Kiwi fruit skin is definitely edible , and there 's a lot of different theories about eating it . Kiwi fruit skin contains high levels of flavonoids , insoluble fiber and antioxidants : these substances all have a beneficial effect on your body 's metabolic functions ( flavonoids and antioxidants ) and on your digestive system and cardiovascular apparatus ( insoluble fiber ) . Common sense , however , should be practiced in this respect : while raw kiwi fruit skin contains these beneficial substances , it also tends to contain more than 99,95 % of of the pesticides in that particular fruit ( if they have been used ) , which largely outweighs the benefits from flavonoids and antioxidants .
It really depends on what you are looking for in a cooking class . I can give you some thoughts from my own personal experiences , but I am sure there are many factors that you must consider , so you will get a variety of answers . I am assuming you are talking about recreational ( that is the industry term , as opposed to professional ) classes ; I do n't claim to have good advise for choosing professional programs to become a line cook or patisserie on a career path to being a chef or pastry chef . Facilities The cooking school should tell where their class is taught . A local community class in a high school home-ec room or in a community center will usually offer basic facilities ( although I imagine some will stun you ... ) Commercial cooking schools or businesses should have photos of their classroom for you to peruse , and will usually brag about the equipment they offer ( such as Viking stoves ... ) Look at the pictures , and ask if the environment will be comfortable for you . Level How advanced is the class ? If you already know how to temper your own chocolate , and own three dipping forks , you do n't want to take a basic workshop in chocolate . On the other hand , if you have never made a biscuit , you might not want to take an advanced pasty course where croissants and puff pastry the order of the day . Choose a class that is at the level you desire -- the course guide should make this very clear . Cleanup Find out if the school has interns , or other staff who do the cleanup . Commercial schools tend to -- otherwise , you might expect to be helped police and do dishes , especially in a community program like one hosted at a community center . You should be comfortable with the expectation . Curriculum or Menu Good cooking classes list exactly what dishes or items will be taught in the class in their class guide or curriculum . They should also specify the lessons learned or techniques applied . Often there is a theme , like " Valentines Dinner for Two " or " Pastry Intensive " Select classes that teach the techniques you want , and dishes you like . Duration Is it a one evening class , where you are in and out , and little is at risk , or a week long adventure where if you do n't enjoy the format or the instructor , you have lost a week 's tuition and a week 's enjoyment . I once did n't come back from lunch on the 2nd day of a five day course because I did n't like the instructor 's style . For longer classes , you might ask for guarantees of a partial refund if the instructor or style or presentation is not to your liking , before signing up . For day long and longer classes , find out if lunches or other relevant meals are provided ( at commercial schools , they often are , either cooked as part of your curriculum , or done by staff or interns for your enjoyment ) , or whether you bring your own . Often there is not enough time to go out for lunch . Presentation and Participation There are several main ways cooking classes are taught ; you want to be sure the style is one that you enjoy . Presentation only -- the instructor prepares dishes at the front of the room , and the students watch . Kind of like a cooking show on TV , but live and in person , so you can smell ( and maybe taste afterwards ) , and ask questions . Each person ( or group ) prepares some -- the class is broken up into groups or individuals , each of whom prepare one or more dishes from the menu . You might not get to do the dish you wanted from the curriculum , but you will get hands-on for something . Usually , the groups will share afterwards , so you get to taste everything . Every person ( or group ) prepares everything -- you will get to prepare everything listed in the curriculum , and usually eat it . Choose a format you are comfortable with , especially if you want to be sure you get to try a specific dish hands-on . Pacing When you evaluate the curriculum or menu , the manner of presentation , and the overall duration of the course , you should have some idea of how fast it goes . Make sure you are comfortable with the pace . If you like a slow and pleasant pace , you do n't want to be a in class where folks are expected to knock out their dishes fast -- although those are often more the advanced classes at commercial schools . Ingredients Find out whether you bring your own ingredients , or they are supplied . ( Most commercial cooking schools supply them , but community programs may not . ) Cost Cost counts . Need I say more ? General Talk to the folks at the school 's customer service line ( if they have one ) if you have questions . Take a short class at the school to evaluate the facilities and their general style before splurging on a longer or more expensive class . And bring your patience . By the nature of the beast , you often sit through things you know , or repetitions , or have to wait through lectures and demos before the hands-on portion . If you can , bring a friend to share the experience , gossip with , and generally have a good time , should you be so disposed . Bon
Salt is added at the beginning , because it takes long time to dissolve . Also , it 's maybe less important for bolognese , but you want your veggies to get infused with salty water , the taste is different from bland vegetables swimming in water salted late . Last but not least , salt 's chemical properties are important for the cooking of some dishes . The stuff which depends on volatile aroma molecules ( practically all fresh herbs ) is added at the end , after the sauce ( or stew ) is removed from the heat , because lots of the compounds are destroyed by heat , and while the flavour is still discernible , it is diminished . On the other hand , if you are using dried herbs , their most fragile molecules have long since disappeared in the air . The flavours which remain in the dried leaves are sturdier and not easily loosened from the plant matter . So by adding dried herbs early enough to allow for some simmering , you can leach more of these out of the leaf ( you are practically steeping it in the sauce ) . But if you cook them for too long , even these molecules can get damaged . Plus , there were some herbs which release unpleasantly bitter alkaloids after too long a steeping ( I do n't remember if your three are among those , but I would suspect the basil may be , as it is prone to producing off-tastes ) . So add them ~ 5 minutes before turning the heat off . Spices are a bit of a boundary case . Although dried spices do n't taste the same as fresh ones , grinding them still releases volatile molecules . So I tend to add them at the end , like fresh herbs , and I 'll advise you to do so too ( using peppercorns in a grinder ) . If I use spices which were bought pre-powdered , I throw them in earlier or together with the dried herbs .
Technically you should be able to make almost anything you 'd be able to make in a metal dish , in a glass dish , but if the preparation calls for one then you ca n't simply substitute the other willy-nilly . It will likely require a good deal of fine-tuning . Glass is an insulator . It absorbs heat . That 's why solar panels are glass and why having a window in your home is not like having a gaping hole in your wall . As a consequence of this , ( a ) it will take a longer time for the dish itself to come up to oven temperature , ( b ) it will cook much more consistently and evenly , even if you have an oven that turns the element on and off to maintain temperature , and ( c ) it will continue cooking the food after you remove it from the oven , unless you remove the food from the baking dish immediately . What this means is that you generally have to extend the cooking time by at least 5-10 minutes ( more if you are baking at high temperatures ) when substituting glass bakeware for metal , to let the dish " pre-heat . " Except if you 're going to let the food cool inside the baking pan , in which case you might actually need to decrease the overall time to prevent burning afterward . It 's hard to be precise because it depends on what you 're cooking , how long you 're cooking it and at what temperature . To be honest , I probably would not use a glass dish for any recipe requiring caramelizing because caramelizing relies entirely on finely-controlled conduction ; ovens are less sensitive than a stove top but nevertheless , a few minutes too long and it 's burnt , a few minutes too short and it 's still solid . Better to choose a material that 's highly conductive for that , i.e. metal . Glass is best when you need slower , more even cooking , like casseroles .
I 've found a <URL> on Walmart.com that has some interesting tidbits . For functionality alone , looks like a glass jar should do the job well . Something like this would have an advantageous shape to make cookies easier to reach , and the jar less prone to falling . One feature you may want to look for specifically would be an hermetic sealing lid , which would help keep moisture in the jar and slow down the drying . Same kind of jar that is often used to store flour , sugar , coffee , beans , etc. . Is light sensitivity a factor ? I do n't think it would be , in most cases , unless you kept your cookies in an area that is heavily lit by the sun .
It should be slightly duller than a fresh razor blade . Skill can make up for lack of sharpness , but if you do n't have the skills you 'll mash the fish more than slice . This is why instructors and surgeons can get away with dull knives ; they 've got years of experience cutting flesh . Traditionally , fillet and boning knives are sharpened to a shallower angle than general-use chef knives , to allow a keener edge . The only knife in a cook 's arsenal that should be sharper is the slicer , which sees rarer use , and needs to be super-sharp for thin slices .
end question
start question
What is the correct internal temperature for rabbit meat ?
In the food safety section of Modernist Cuisine ( 1-138 ) it says that all wild rabbit must be cooked through : Wild rabbit must be cooked well done to kill any tularemia bacteria ; for rare or medium cooked rabbit dishes , chefs can substitute farm-raised rabbits that have been kept segregated from their wild relatives by trustworthy breeders . The section on meat ( 3-96 ) recommends bringing rabbit loin to an internal temperature of 59C ( 138F ) and going by the section I 've just quoted this is obviously only for farmed meat . The recommendation for the legs is to cook sous vide for 1 hour @ 66C ( 151F ) which again obviously refers to farmed because that 's definitely not long enough to tenderise wild rabbit meat . I would really recommend cooking the leg meat and loin separately as I find that the loin dries out long before the legs are cooked through . The legs are much nicer braised too .
Not sure if there is a correct way . It 's basically skewered hunks of meat on a wood fired BBQ You can do your own Churrasqueira by using a Weber " kettle " style BBQ or a B.D.S. ( Big Drum Smoker ) . Use long steel skewers ( or swords ! ) for your meat and BBQ away Thick steaks of beef and lamb work well . Also try chicken drumsticks and some small Chorizo ( spicy sausage ) Do n't marinate the meat , but toss some coarse salt onto the meat surface before and during cooking . Do n't go crazy with it , but it seems to absorb the roasting flavours and really boost the taste Use a smoky fire , if your wood wo n't smoke add some fresh wood or herbs that do . Try lavender bush ( wood and flower ) , grape vine or kiwifruit vine cuttings , or any other fresh cut aromatic wood Watch the amount of fat dripping onto the hot coals ; too much will make the meat taste bad . Shield the coals as required or trim off large chunks of fat There is no need for motorised skewers that takes the fun out of it . Occasionally turn the meat by hand while enjoying your favourite beverage , and " chewing the fat " with a friend Serve by taking a skewer to the diners plate , and hold skewer nearly vertically above plate . Use an extra sharp carving knife and slice onto the plate with a downwards cut so juices and other slicing splatter goes onto the plate and not onto the diners If you are having a Churrasco party , give each diner a flippable symbol ( e.g. red/green ) to indicate to the server ( probably you ) " GIVE ME MORE ! " , or " I am stuffed " . Serve a round of each meat as their outer layer becomes done Coolest Churrasco cooker I could find The rails on the top are what the skewers rest on Following the car theme , some more cool Churrasco cookers here <URL>
Despite the fashion of using " processed " as if it is a derogatory term , and processed foods are dangerous , almost all foods are processed in some way ( s ) . Most of us , for example , do not chew wheat berries directly off the stalks , but prefer them threshed , hulled , ground into flour , and then baked into breads or other foods . What is that , if not processing ? Of course , cooking itself is a form of processing , since most of us no longer eat our meat raw from the carcass . There are a number of common ways that meat is processed , after being butchered , some of which are more extreme than others . Some foods have several of these processes applied . Among the more common are : Cooking Grinding ( as in hamburger , and many sausages ) Curing with salt or other curing agents ( as in bacon ) Canning ( as in the infamous Spam , or Vienna sausages ) Drying or dehydrating ( jerky ) Pickling ( pickled pigs feet ) Smoking ( which is often combined with curing , cooking , or drying , such as Virginia ham ) Freezing Injection of brine or other flavorings or enhancements ( many ham products ) I do n't think there is any universal measure by which you can consider processing good or bad . You have to consider each within the context of the particular food product , and its outcome .
True chocolate , made with cocoa butter , especially of the non-milk variety has a very long shelf life when stored in dry , cool conditions . The fact that the shape is a chip rather than a bar or disc or callet is not really relevant , except for the total surface area on which <URL> can occur . Chocolate is very , very dry , which discourages mold , bacteria , or other micro-flora or micro-fauna from growing , not even counting the preserving effect of theobromine and other alkali in the chocolate . It also resists rancidity very well . Stored properly , it can last for many years safely . Many brands of chocolate chips are not true chocolate , because the manufacturer may have used less expensive fats than cocoa butter , which do not have such excellent storage properties . Assuming you have a quality chocolate chip made from real chocolate , the issues you may find include : Sugar bloom , where the sugar comes to the surface due to moisture dissolving it and then leaving it on the surface when it evaporates Fat bloom , where the cocoa butter separates out onto the surface for reasons not thoroughly understood The chocolate can lose its temper from warming and cooling cycles , if it gets too warm ; this will change its texture to softer , more gritty , and less pleasant The cocoa butter could go rancid ( which I have never experienced ) The first three are aesthetic and cosmetic issues , but the chocolate can still be used in recipes or melted down and re-tempered . Having it go rancid would be cause to throw it out -- but chocolate is very hardy , and resists rancidity -- so if it tastes fine , it is still usable . After two years , you are quite likely to have experienced bloom . The chips will look like they have a white coating , and may feel gritty . While this makes it less pleasant to eat out of hand or in applications where it wo n't be melted down , it will still perform well in recipes where it is melted . They are certainly safe to eat ( again , assuming real chocolate , and no rancidity ) , but they may not have the same pleasant texture and crispness that you would expect . This is why manufacturer 's give them a best by date . Note : you can tell whether they are real chocolate by the ingredient list ( at least in the US , and other places with comparable labeling laws ) . Real chocolate will consist of : Cocoa solids , cocoa , cocoa mass , cocoa butter , cocoa nib , or chocolate liqueur ( all words indicating products of the cocoa bean ) Sugar Flavoring ( such as vanilla or salt ) Perhaps lecithin as an emulsifier Signs that the product is not real chocolate include other ingredients , especially other fats in lieu of cocoa butter ( which is comparatively expensive , and marketable to the cosmetics industry ) . Milk chocolate , which also contains milk solids and milk fat will not last as long , but still probably has a shelf life measured in years when stored under proper ( cool , dry ) conditions . White chocolate chips do not have the additional preservative effects of the cocoa solids and their alkali , and also have dairy solids and possibly milk fat , so they have the shortest shelf life of all . It also tends to pick up off flavors if not in a perfectly sealed , air tight container . White chocolate , I would not keep more than year or so . Of course , chips that are made from other ingredients than true chocolate are going to have a shelf life based on their ingredients , but I can not speak to that , and anyway , in my mind , they are not worth storing . See also : <URL>
There has been thorough scientific research done on this question . The main problem with Alton Brown 's recommendation is that his room temperature " rest " is not long enough , since the scientific literature recommends 24-72 hours at room temperature , depending on acid concentration . The most common acids used in mayonnaise recipes are acetic acid ( vinegar ) and citric acid ( lemon juice ) . Vinegar is more effective at killing bacteria , but either can be used . Both acids are less effective at refrigerator temperatures than at room temperature . For a general review of the literature , as well as specific advice on lemon juice ( along with lab results ) , see <URL> . The take-home message , which you can see from the data ( Table 1 in the link ) , is that the only successful sterilization of the mayonnaise that eliminated Salmonella bacteria occurred with at least 24 hours at room temperature with reasonable amounts of lemon juice . The authors determined that the minimum quantity of lemon juice necessary to achieve this result was 20 milliliters ( about 4 tsp ) per egg yolk for 72 hours at room temperature , or 35 milliliters ( about 7 tsp ) per egg yolk for 48 hours . Room temperature was necessary for sterilization : even after a week , all samples stored at refrigerated temperatures still tested positive for Salmonella , even with a high acid content . On the other hand , after a week , no samples at room temperature tested positive , even those that contained only 10 milliliters ( 2 tsp ) of lemon juice . A <URL> concluded that vinegar was also effective ( and more effective than lemon juice ) . Subsequent studies have indicated a dose of at least 20 milliliters ( about 4 tsp ) of standard white wine vinegar should be effective at 24 hours at room temperature -- though 72 hours was recommended if possible . <URL> have shown that the addition of garlic and/or mustard will increase the sterilization effect , while salt inhibits it . The type of oil also matters : as <URL> , " olive oil with garlic or basil showed the fastest rate of death , followed by soya , grapeseed , rapeseed , groundnut , sunflower , hazelnut and a blended olive oil . " It must be emphasized that all of these studies , without exception , recommend 24 hours at room temperature MINIMUM for effective killing of bacteria . Before concluding , I suppose I have to address the mistaken assumption that mayonnaise is unsafe at room temperature in general . It is well-known among food safety experts that commercially prepared mayonnaise is perfectly safe at room temperature ( for example , see the quotations at the end of this <URL> ) . The acidic environment and previous processing stages are plenty to keep mayonnaise safe -- you refrigerate mayo to keep it fresh longer , not because it is unsafe at room temperature . In fact , adding sufficient quantities of mayonnaise to meat-based dishes like chicken salad or ham salad can actually slow growth and even kill <URL> and <URL> on the meat and thus make the dishes safer . In the linked study , meat salads with mayonnaise held at room temperature for five hours had very little growth of Salmonella , compared to what would be expected without mayonnaise . Note that refrigeration in such cases is still recommended , since the meat pieces can still spoil at room temp and the acidic sterilizing effect of mayonnaise is somewhat diluted when mixed with other things . ( Mayonnaise -- along with any liquid or semisolid food -- when handled improperly around contaminated food , can lead to cross-contamination of bacteria in mixtures that dilute its sterilizing effect . But that 's not a property unique to mayonnaise at all . ) In the past , homemade mayonnaise did not have the necessary processing to render it safe , which is the impetus behind the many studies I 've cited here . These studies show what you need to do to make it safe . After 24-72 hours ( depending on factors listed above ) , the homemade mayonnaise can be safely refrigerated to maintain its quality for longer than storage at room temperature . [ EDIT : One additional corollary to the research above is that homemade mayonnaise is actually the most dangerous when it is fresh . I 've occasionally heard people say , " I make homemade mayo , but I always use it right away , so it 's safer . " In reality , as discussed in the linked articles , the acid will stop Salmonella from further growth and eventually cause it to die off in undiluted mayonnaise , even with significantly less acid than the recommended quantities . Most egg-based food poisoning is caused by contamination from the shell , where Salmonella bacteria is commonly found and will grow once it comes in contact with a liquid medium . This requires time , so fresh egg dishes are generally safer . ( Note that in the U.S. , unlike almost everywhere else in the world , eggs are washed and their exteriors are disinfected , so Salmonella infection from egg shells is much rarer . ) With mayonnaise , though , the growth of small numbers of shell bacteria accident
You should n't heat a non stick pan without the oil , because it is too easy to overheat it and ruin the coating . So , I put oil inside first , and tell by the state of the oil . It smells , looks and flows different when it is hot enough . You can also learn to judge if there is sufficient heat when you hold your palm at a given distance above the pan , but in my experience , you learn to judge by the oil before you have gotten good enough to keep the same distance and to distinguish " enough " from " not enough " heat . If you do n't have enough experience to know when the oil is ready , you have to do it repeatedly until you learn it . It takes a few less-than-great meals if you do it purely by trial and error , and goes better if you use an infrared thermometer . You can also try floating cubes of stale white bread and watch their browning behavior , but I find this method too involved logistically - you have to have the bread , cut it , then deal with messy pieces of oily bread , and end up with slowly charring crumbles in your pan .
The ideal temperature for whipping cream is between 35 degrees F and 50 degrees F ( 1 2/3 degrees C to 10 degrees C ) . In order to maintain this temperature , you may want to chill your bowl and beaters in your fridge until cold , but you should be able to whip cream just fine as long as you do not let it rest once you remove it from the fridge . Above 50 degrees F ( 10 degrees C ) you wo n't be able to whip your cream .
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
The meaty taste is Umami . It is the flavour of monosodium glutamate , in the same way that salty is the flavour of salt . Both mushrooms and tomatoes of the right variety are quite rich in it , as is yeast extract . You can also just buy the stuff commercially . Do n't worry about the stigma attached to it , it 's not actually toxic or anything .
A lot of bacteria grows in the range of 40-100 ° F ( 4-38 ° C ) ( i.e. room temperature ) . It 's definitely not recommended to defrost meat at room temperature . In fact , you are not supposed to leave meat at room temperature for more than an hour . However , defrosting in the refrigerator can take a long time and require you to plan at least one day ahead of time . I 'm not so good at this , which leads to a safe and fast solution : Defrost meat in a waterproof ziploc bag in cold water . Change the water every 30 minutes until defrosted . The water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the defrosting is quite fast and the water is cold so there 's minimal safety risk . From the <URL> : Uh , oh ! You 're home and forgot to defrost something for dinner . You grab a package of meat or chicken and use hot water to thaw it fast . But is this safe ? What if you remembered to take food out of the freezer , but forgot and left the package on the counter all day while you were at work ? Neither of these situations are safe , and these methods of thawing lead to foodborne illness . Food must be kept at a safe temperature during " the big thaw . " Foods are safe indefinitely while frozen . However , as soon as food begins to defrost and become warmer than 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) , any bacteria that may have been present before freezing can begin to multiply . Foods should never be thawed or even stored on the counter , or defrosted in hot water . Food left above 40 ° F ( unrefrigerated ) is not at a safe temperature . Even though the center of the package may still be frozen as it thaws on the counter , the outer layer of the food is in the " Danger Zone , " between 40 and 140 ° F ( 4 ° C and 60 ° C ) -- at temperatures where bacteria multiply rapidly . When defrosting frozen foods , it 's best to plan ahead and thaw food in the refrigerator where food will remain at a safe , constant temperature -- 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . There are three safe ways to defrost food : in the refrigerator , in cold water , and in the microwave . Refrigerator Thawing Planning ahead is the key to this method because of the lengthy time involved . A large frozen item like a turkey requires at least a day ( 24 hours ) for every 5 pounds of weight . Even small amounts of frozen food -- such as a pound of ground meat or boneless chicken breasts -- require a full day to thaw . When thawing foods in the refrigerator , there are several variables to take into account . Some areas of an appliance may keep the food colder than other areas . Food placed in the coldest part will require longer defrosting time . Food takes longer to thaw in a refrigerator set at 35 ° F ( 2 ° C ) than one set at 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) . After thawing in the refrigerator , ground meat and poultry should remain useable for an additional day or two before cooking ; red meat , 3 to 5 days . Foods defrosted in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking , although there may be some loss of quality . Cold Water Thawing This method is faster than refrigerator thawing but requires more attention . The food must be in a leak-proof package or plastic bag . If the bag leaks , bacteria from the air or surrounding environment could be introduced into the food . Also , meat tissue can also absorb water like a sponge , resulting in a watery product . The bag should be submerged in cold tap water , changing the water every 30 minutes so it continues to thaw . Small packages of meat or poultry -- about a pound -- may defrost in an hour or less . A 3 - to 4-pound package may take 2 to 3 hours . For whole turkeys , estimate about 30 minutes per pound . If thawed completely , the food must be cooked immediately . Foods thawed by the cold water method should be cooked before refreezing .
Well your chef 's knife should constitute about 90 % of your usage I 'd say . It should be used for slicing , dicing just about anything . Your paring knife is actually the 3-4 " one you describe . Paring knives are typically used for delicate tasks like , coring apples , peeling , and some people use it for mincing garlic because it 's so small . I 've never seen a 2 " serrated knife before , so I 'm not sure what I 'd use that for if anything . If you 're using it because it seems to do a better job on the vegetables , then that 's a sign that your chef 's knife is dull . I have seen tomatoes sliced with a 6 " serrated utility knife due to their tenderness . However , you generally do n't want to use a serrated knife on an onion , this will cause a lot of the gas to be released that makes you cry .
Another route for day to day cleaning is vinegar . I use a spray bottle with half white vinegar and half water at night on my counter tops before bed . ( Use soap after cooking or prepping . ) The vinegar does a good job cleaning bacteria , mold , and germs . Once you get accustomed to the smell of vinegar , you will realize it deodorizes after the vinegar smell goes away . A nice touch is rubbing a lemon on the counter beforehand , but it really does n't do much other than smell nice and break down oil .
Bread hydration varies widely . The " standard " bread using all-purpose ( plain ) flour has a ratio of water to flour weight ( hydration ) 60-65 % . Flour with a higher protein level , labelled as bread , strong , or high-gluten , tend to use 65 % hydration . Ciabatta and rustic breads generally use more water than normal . The extra water gives them more large , uneven holes in the interior of the bread ( called the crumb ) , and generally leads to a higher-rising bread . These wetter doughs are often referred to as " slack " doughs in baker 's parlance . Here are a couple sample hydrations from Hammelman 's bread baking : Baguettes with poolish , 66 % hydration , all bread flour Ciabatta , 73 % hydration , all bread flour Pain Rustique ( rustic bread ) , 69 % hydration , all bread flour Country Bread , 68 % hydration , all bread flour Roasted Potato bread , 61 % hydration , 85 % bread flour / 15 % whole wheat flour / 25 % roasted potatoes Whole wheat bread , 68 % hydration , 50/50 whole wheat and bread flour Semolina ( Durum ) bread , 62 % hydration , 50/50 durum and bread flours Mind you , it is quite possible to make a bread with even higher water content , if one is a skilled baker . Wetter breads ( 70 % hydration and up ) generally can not be hand-kneaded normally , and require a mechanical mixer , stretch-and-fold kneading with a spatula , or autolysis . Autolysis is when you mix water and flour before adding yeast , and then allow it to sit . This allows enzymes in the flour to develop gluten before the rising begins , and can supplement or replace normal kneading . Another approach , called double-hydration , is to add only part of the water before kneading . This allows you to knead the bread to develop gluten structure before it becomes too wet to knead . For extremely wet breads , these methods may all be combined . I 'm looking right now at a double-hydration , mechanically mixed , autolyzed , poolish-using ciabatta recipe that sits at 76 % hydration .
For 1 cup self-raising flour , add 1 1/2 tsp baking powder + 1/4 tsp salt to 1 cup all purpose flour . ( http://www.joyofbaking.com/IngredientSubstitution.html ) Edit : Calculation added by Sebbidychef : According to <URL> 1 cup of un-sifted all-purpose flour is equal to 120g . Therefore 1000 divided by 120 is 8.3 recurring ( 1000/120 = 8.3 ) . 8.3 multiplied by 1.5 ( 1 1/2 teaspoons ) is 12.45 , so let 's round it to 12.5 ( 12 1/2 teaspoons or 4.167 tablespoons , rounded to 4 tablespoons ) , ( 8.3 * 1.5 = 12.45 ) . In metric this is 45g of baking powder . 8.3 multiplied by 0.25 is 2.075 , so let 's round it to 2 ( 2 teaspoons ) , ( 8.3 * 0.25 = 2.075 ) . In metric this is 10g if salt . So for 1kg of flour you will need 45g baking powder ( 4 tablespoons ) of baking powder and 10g ( 2 teaspoons ) of salt .
I would think that USDA would err on the side of conservative when it comes to safety , especially with no financial interests in the equation <URL> Perishable foods should never be thawed on the counter , or in hot water and must not be left at room temperature for more than two hours . Even though the center of the package may still be frozen as it thaws on the counter , the outer layer of the food could be in the " Danger Zone , " between 40 and 140 ° F -- temperatures where bacteria multiply rapidly . When thawing frozen food , it 's best to plan ahead and thaw in the refrigerator where it will remain at a safe , constant temperature -- at 40 ° F or below . There are three safe ways to thaw food : in the refrigerator , in cold water , and in the microwave . They 're all covered in the above link , but here 's the fastest one since it best meets your requirement of reasonably quick results : Microwave thawing When thawing food in a microwave , plan to cook it immediately after thawing because some areas of the food may become warm and begin to cook during the thawing process ( bringing the food to " Danger Zone " temperatures ) . Holding partially cooked food is not recommended because any bacteria present would n't have been destroyed and , indeed , the food may have reached optimal temperatures for bacteria to grow . After thawing in the microwave , always cook immediately after , whether microwave cooking , by conventional oven , or grilling . Foods thawed in the microwave should be cooked before refreezing . And when all else fails : Cooking without thawing When there is not enough time to thaw frozen foods , or you 're simply in a hurry , just remember : it is safe to cook foods from the frozen state . The cooking will take approximately 50 % longer than the recommended time for fully thawed or fresh meat and poultry . From personal experience , I prefer the cold water method to microwave for fast thawing , but I rarely if ever use a microwave anyway so others on here might have techniques that minimize the flavor/quality downside of it . The factors that make the microwave method less safe are what also lower the quality , taste and texture of the food -- the unevenly thawed parts , over-cooking some of it while undercooking other areas , etc. .
Extra-Rare : 125F ( 52C ) Rare : 135F ( 57C ) Medium-Rare : 145F ( 63C ) Medium : 160F ( 71C ) Well-Done : 170F ( 77C ) Note : Extra-Rare and Rare are not recommended by USDA
There are two main types of provolone : piccante ( sharp ) and dolce ( sweet ) . Most braciola recipes I 've seen call for the sharp version . Sharp provolone tastes very similar to cheddar , which I assume is abundant in the UK . The issue is that " real " cheddar is a hard cheese and provolone is only semi-hard . Here in the US , we have a softer version of sharp cheddar-style cheese that is made in Wisconsin . If a similar semi-hard sharp cheddar variant is available in the UK , I would recommend that . It should also be noted that the term " braciola " ( or sometimes " braciole " ) means a lot of different things to different people . <URL> , likely including the author of your book , it takes on the Sicilian meaning of an involtino . Sometimes the meat will be filled with a soft cheese mixture like mozzarella mixed with grated pecorino romano . However , if the recipe calls for a harder cheese like provolone , it is likely referring to a variant that is very popular in the US in which the provolone is cut into thin slices ( usually using a deli slicer ) and layered on the meat before the meat is rolled . Therefore , any substitute for the provolone should ideally be thinly sliced .
Grinding coffee for espresso is probably the most difficult to get right . The coffee grind needs to be fine enough to increase the pressure required to push the water through the filter and create a good crema . But if the grind is too fine , the ground coffee can block the coffee filter . Generally , espresso coffee grind resembles a mixture of powdered sugar and fine beach sand . Since each espresso machine is a bit different , you may have to experiment to get the coffee grind just right ( <URL> ) . Brewing espresso is particularly susceptible to problems relating to an inconsistent grind . I am not familiar with a burr mill specifically , however burr mills are generally recommended for espresso grinds as they tend to provide consistency . Bear in mind that the grind can either be too coarse and the water will run through without much extraction due to the pressure and space between the grinds , or it can be too fine and allow for a backup of water and espresso water and grinds all over your counter . NOTE : The pressure with which you pack/tamp the puck ( the grinds when pressed in the brewing basket form a puck ) will also play an important role in the extraction process and the crema formation . You can get a feel for how hard to tamp the puck by getting a scale and pressing down until you hit about 30 pounds of pressure ; you want to pack the puck at that pressure of tamp .
My preferred method by far would be heating them in a pot along with some kind of sauce . Failing that , I think I might try putting them in a tightly covered pot in the oven along with just a little water ( just a tablespoon or so ) -- that would gently heat them and also keep them moist .
I 'd say 3 to 5 people , depending on the heaviness of the sauce , the meatiness of the rabbit etc. .
end question
start question
Costa Rican empanada-like food ?
What you describe sounds like a Jamaican Patty . From <URL> : A Jamaican patty or pattie is a pastry that contains various fillings and spices baked inside a flaky shell . Technically , it is a beef filled turnover . As its name suggests , it is commonly found in Jamaica , and is also eaten in other areas of Costa Rica , especially on the Caribbean coast . It is traditionally filled with ground beef , however , fillings now include chicken , vegetables , shrimp , lobster , soy and cheese . <URL> <URL> <URL> They are quite tasty !
Flash-freezing equipment would n't hurt , but for the normal home cook , the main things are to chill it as quickly as reasonably possible , package it with as much air removed as possible ( vacuum sealers help here ) in individual meal-sized portions , then freeze . Thaw in the fridge if possible , or by heating your vacuum-sealed bag in a water bath . ( Microwaves are pretty bad at heating frozen blocks of food and even with a lot of attention paid will tend to overheat part while other parts remain frozen . ) Choose recipes that work for the equipment you have , and adapt your weeknight process to combine the frozen ingredients with fresh ones . Soups , many sauces , chilis , beans and rice dishes freeze well under normal home conditions , as do some meat preparations ( the texture can change , and usually , the larger the cut of meat , the more likely it is that the change from freezing will be negative ) . Without flash-freezing , foods with a high water content tend to become mushy , so that the broccoli you steamed to perfection will most likely thaw out to be limp and potatoes may be mushy .
It boils down to chemical make up . Avocados , like egg yolks , contain a decent amount of fats , carotenoids , and sulfurous compounds . Avocados are one of the most concentrated fruit sources of fats and fatty acids . Both egg yolks and avocados contain carotenoid phytochemicals like lutein , zeaxathanin , and a-carotene . In avocados the sulphur is mostly in the form of glutathione , would likely break down into its cysteine during steaming . Cysteine is one of the primary sulphur sources in eggs as well . <URL>
Your question has two main parts , what 's elastic about gluten , and why do n't other plants have this unicorn we call a gluten protein . I 'll provide some background info first , but feel free to skip ahead to the spoilers if you like . Quick and dirty background on proteins ... All proteins ( like gluten ) are made of differing sequences , and number of about 20 or so basic amino acids ( glutamine , lysine , cysteine , arginine , isoleucine , just to name a few ) . So when we talk about large proteins like gluten , it 's sometimes hard to remember that chemically , we are talking about many-many amino acid ( AA ) molecules which link together . The way the AA 's link together matters because , the chemical interactions create the overall larger shape , and helps determine the physical properties of the final protein . If I did n't put you to sleep , or you want to geek-out on this stuff : resources regarding the secondary ( bonding between AA 's which creates alpha-helices and beta-pleated sheets ) , tertiary ( AA side chain interactions and AA 's backbone ) , and quaternary ( 3D ) structures of proteins , pubmed is where you need to go . Glutens and what they are : Gluten is the main storage form of proteins in wheat . Gluten itself is a fusion of glutenin and gliadin protein units which belong to the prolamin superfamily ( prolamines are cool , look them up ) . Gluten subunits fall into three broad categories : High molecular weight ( HMW ) prolamines , ( glutenin subunits ) approximately 6-10 % of protein Sulfur-rich prolamins ( approximately 70-80 % of protein ) which include : gamma-gliadins , alpha-gliadins , and the B - and C-type low molecular weight ( LMW ) subunits of glutenin Sulfur-poor prolamins ( approximately 10-20 % of protein ) include : v-gliadins , and D-type LMW subunits of glutenin Variances in the spread of these proteins contribute to the way wheat varietals are utilized commercially ( like winter or summer wheats ... you have seen the variations available to buy on store shelves ) . The composition of gluten protein in whatever wheat strain that 's being used translates into differing physical properties ( elasticity , density , etc ) in the dough it makes . Where do the elastic properties come from ? Elastic properties in gluten come from the way the components of the protein matrix interact with water . The gluten proteins react with water in ways that other storage forms of protein can not , namely in the swelling/hydration bit . There are two things going on at the same time . The gliadin sections of the gluten protein contribute to the friction with which the hydrating liquid is able to move around in and near the protein matrices ( viscocity ) . The glutenin portion of the molecule is responsible for the elasticity or strength of the protein matrix . Glutenin seems to undergo reversible ( not as common as you 'd hope ) stretching because of the way it is folded . Why do n't any other grain proteins seem to have gluten ? I would like to point out this is more of a plant physiology/phylogeny question rather than one related to cooking . They just do n't have what it takes . The way different plants create the storage form of their proteins is determined by their specific DNA sequences within the genome . AA Structure , order ( N-C terminus ) and final shape of the proteins created by the plant are a result of the transcription , translation and post-translational modifications of DNA sequences in the plant . References for those that want them : ( I did try to find free online ones ) Cereal seed storage proteins : structures , properties and role in grain utilization <URL> Wheat Gluten Functionality as a Quality Determinant in Cereal-Based Food Products Annual Review of Food Science and Technology Vol . 3 : 469-492 ( Volume publication date April 2012 ) DOI : 10.1146 / annurev-food-022811-101303 Distribution of gluten proteins in bread wheat ( Triticum aestivum ) grain <URL> The formation and properties of wheat flour doughs <URL> Wheat Protein Composition and Properties of Wheat Glutenin in Relation to Breadmaking Functionality <URL>
Cumin is most often used ground , yes . You can , if you prefer -- and as in common in Indian and other cuisines -- toast it first until it is fragrant ( a minute or two in a dry skillet at medium heat ) . Then , grind it in a spice grinder or mortar and pestle .
Freeze one , thaw it and see . The liquid separates out and leaves a pulpy structure behind . Tomato sauce ( no chunks ) thaws much better and separated liquid can be stirred back in well enough . Canned works as we all know so no one is bothering trying to grow a freezer-friendly tomato , yet .
Any halfway competent chef should indeed be tasting . The only way to know whether you 're putting up good food is to check it yourself - and you 'd better be consistent if you want to continue getting paid for it . That 's not to say that all chefs do , nor that there 's any one standard for how frequently to taste or what method should be used . It 's pretty obvious that using your hands to taste or double-dipping is frowned on ... but shortcuts do happen when it 's the middle of the rush and you have 30 things to be doing at once . The best practice I 've personally seen in a commercial kitchen was to have a large set of spoons at each station , kept with the " business end " submerged in hot water with a mild sanitizer solution . Each chef also carried a few clean towels which they changed out copiously throughout the evening ( these have a million uses , from wiping hands dry to cleaning plate rims to handling hot pan handles ) . When tasting , we 'd grab a spoon , tap off excess water , wipe with a clean towel if necessary , take a small taste , and discard . This got to be as much of a habit as washing your hands after handling raw meat or wiping down your cutting board . The used spoons would be collected and washed regularly along with used pans and so on , then returned to the line . With a system like this there 's minimal risk for contamination and relatively little waste , except for frequent washing . At home , you can play things a bit looser , unless you like washing all of your spoons every night . Double-dipping is n't a big concern unless you 're ill , in which case you should n't really be cooking for people . You 're probably introducing your friends and family to just as much contamination in the form of dust and such simply by having them in your home . EDIT : I agree with Jefromi 's point in comments , so I want to emphasize this further . Safety aside , I strongly believe that tasting is necessary to make you a better cook . It teaches you how to make corrections on the fly and balance flavors , rather than simply following a recipe . As a matter of fact , even if you 're following a recipe , you will need to account for variation in things like produce . Fruits vary in their flavor depending on how ripe they are , where they were grown , whether it was a good season ... The vegetables that I get at my local market may be a slightly different variety from yours ... Meats vary widely depending on how the animal is fed and raised , even if you 're using the same cuts . Even when using packaged ingredients , you ca n't guarantee complete consistency unless you use the exact brand as written in a recipe . ( And I dare say that if your recipes uses only packaged ingredients , you can do much better . ) Recipes can not account for this sort of variation in anything but the broadest strokes . It 's up to you to balance all of this , plus the preferences of yourself and your guests . If you 're only tasting when you 've finished cooking , it 's probably too late to correct any problems . Like any skill , cooking ability is improved by practice and feedback . Tasting as you go provides you with immediate feedback on how the dish tastes and what it needs , rather than just at the very end when you sit down to eat . Learning how flavors interact , how much seasoning is enough , and so on are fundamentals . They 're what help you get creative , go beyond cooking someone else 's dishes , and start coming up with your own . So : yes , you should taste , and you should taste often . There are many ways to deal with safety concerns , but there is no other way to get better at fixing your mistakes before they hit the table .
Food processors are wonderful kitchen tools , but they have only existed for a relatively short while . The techniques used prior to their invention still work , but are much more labor intensive . Use a <URL> . Use a mortar and pestle . The results can then be forced through a sieve of <URL> if desired to get a smoother result . You have not mentioned in your recipe whether the beans are cooked . I am guessing that they are from the other ingredients they were to be processed with . If so , the food mill should work very well . If they are not , and you are essentially making a bean flour , the mortar and pestle would be more appropriate , although a lot of work .
The meaty taste is Umami . It is the flavour of monosodium glutamate , in the same way that salty is the flavour of salt . Both mushrooms and tomatoes of the right variety are quite rich in it , as is yeast extract . You can also just buy the stuff commercially . Do n't worry about the stigma attached to it , it 's not actually toxic or anything .
What about tofu ? It can be " jerkyfied " pretty easily . For example : <URL>
Couverture chocolate is generally used in coating and molding because it has such a nice sheen due to its high cocoa butter content . It 's usually very high quality and so should taste very good straight out of the bag , although the texture will be more creamy than non couverture chocolates . Couverture is not better than other high quality chocolate , just for a specific application . You wo n't find much chocolate candy made from it , that 's not because the chocolate is n't good stuff , it simply that the effect the makers intend requires a lower level of cocoa butter . As for how to tell good quality chocolate from poor quality the best way to tell is to taste it .
Also does it modify or make the food more nutritious with solar cooker . Not more than any other kind of similar cooking by radiant heat , like baking . There is simply no mechanism by which that could happen . Let 's examine some claims I found from Google : from <URL> Solar cooking does n't use smoke that can contain carcinogens or microwaves that expose your food to potentially dangerous radio waves . An electric stove produces no smoke ( if you do n't burn the food ) , and natural gas produces very little smoke . Were there smoke emitted by the stove , the area around it would be covered in soot , and the flame would be yellow from the carbon ( the main component of soot and smoke ) heated to incandescence in the flame . Further , the biggest cancer risk from smoked foods is not the smoke , but the <URL> frequently used to cure them . If microwaves emit dangerous radio waves , the sun emits far more . That 's why it 's so bright , and so hot . I suppose you could be harmed by the microwave 's radio waves if you manage to turn it on without shutting the door . Then again , you can cook your hand in a solar cooker , too . Or a stove . Come to think of it , cooking involves potentially dangerous heat . Huh . Also : <URL> ( summary : no more than any other cooking ) Plus , when you cook in a solar appliance , the nutrients stay in the food and do n't leach out . That 's because you do n't use water in solar cooking . And , the temperatures in a solar oven are moderate -- around 325 F -- so nutrients are n't destroyed during cooking at a high temperature like on a grill or over an open flame . This is also true of many other methods of preparing foods : baking , grilling , microwaving , frying and , do n't involve water . 325 F is not an unusual temperature for baking , and most other methods can be performed gently , if desired . To summarize : there may be benefits of solar cooking ( a big one : it requires no fuel ) , but nutrition is not one of them . There 's no way sunlight can add more nutrition to food that was n't there to begin . Any nutritional benefits are not as much from solar cooking specifically as they are from not cooking by some less nutritional method . For example , any cooking method that is not boiling will not have the possibility of dissolving some of the food 's nutrition .
Generally ... not as quickly . The salt content of the wine is much higher than drinking wine , which will preserve it longer . It will still " go bad " eventually . ( Going bad is more a decrease in quality . It will still be edible , but unpleasant . It wo n't make you sick , except by the bad taste ! ) See this from <URL> : " Cooking wine typically available in North America is treated with salt as a preservative and food coloring . " So , it 's safer than normal wine , but I 'd try and use it soon . The sooner , the better .
For sure ! As you might expect , it 's really good for desserts , as a light , spring-time flavor for cakes , frostings , paired with berries , etc. -- but I have also seen it used with salmon and other savory dishes . Check out <URL> for some ideas :
Most freezers are frost-free , which means that they occasionally cycle above freezing to prevent formation of frost on the walls of the freezer . This makes them easier to maintain but it shortens the storage longevity of the food . This makes products stored in them vulnerable to freezer burn , which is a loss of moisture . It can also cause ice and IQF products like frozen fruits or vegetables to solidify into a single mass . If you have ice cube trays , you may even notice them becoming empty after a few months of sitting unused . Freezer burn is a loss of quality , though , not a health issue . The food is n't spoiling . If you have a " deep freeze " or a non frost-free freezer that you only access occasionally , you can certainly keep foods for nearly indefinite periods of time without worrying as much about freezer burn . You can also reduce the likelihood of freezer burn by following better freezer practices . Resources available <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
Anything that 's hard to get off of your counter can make a good food coloring . Regarding natural sources , remember that you run the risk of also adding additional flavors so take that into consideration . Among other companies , <URL> makes all natural foods including colorful fruit snacks . What they use for the coloring in these snacks are : turmeric , black carrot juice concentrate , and annatto . ( I 've cooked with turmeric and annatto before and they DEFINITELY stain . ) Aside from Google searches , you could probably find practical natural food dyes by looking in the ingredient list from other all-natural foods . Back to your specific question about beets , this is from <URL> : 1 Put your fresh beets in a glass or enamel pan with just enough water to fully cover them . Bring to a boil and turn the heat down a bit to simmer for 30 minutes . Make sure the water does n't boil out . Take them off when the beets are not quite done - When a knife goes into them but they 're not as soft as you 'd like for eating . Remove them from heat . 2 Strain the beets , reserving the beet juice . Peel , slice and chop up your beets . Return them to the beet juice . Soak for four hours . 3 Strain the liquid out and take out 3/4 cup . Add your 2 teaspoons vinegar to this . This is your red dye . 4 Use canned beets and you can skip half of the work . Drain the can reserving 3/4 cup liquid . Add 2 teaspoon of vinegar to this and you 're done . You can still eat the beets , too . The fresh ones are n't terribly appealing after this .
Not worth the risk , just throw it out . There 's no way to tell whether the smell was absorbed , or comes from bacteria in the food itself .
I think some sort of mechanical aid to macerate the food is necessary for your project . Depending on what dish you attempt , there are few options . A ricer ( or food mill , depending on who you buy from ) is a manual device ( non-electric ) that you might run cooked potatoes or parsnips through . Many people do mashed potatoes this way . Depending how cooked your parsnips get , a hand blender ( or immersion blender , stick blender ) may work . However , all of this requires you to shell out some cash for a device . I 'm not sure , from your post , if that 's an option . If you 're going for ultra-smooth texture for a bisque or other soup , it might be worth it to get one of the small-bowl food processors ( just work in batches ) . Good luck !
There 's no point drinking wine and not enjoying it . The point of wine with food is that , if you enjoy the wine and enjoy the food , you 'll enjoy both together even more . But if you do n't enjoy the wine , you 'll enjoy the food less if you force yourself to drink wine with it . Is there anything you do like about wine ? If not , I suggest you ignore it for the time being . If you 're curious , you 'll come back to it in your own time , whenever you 're ready . If you 're not , it does n't matter : there 's nothing wrong with not liking wine . If there is something you like about wine , for example , the aroma or some component of the taste , I suggest you keep trying it but do n't force yourself . Taste it every now and again and , if you still do n't like it , wait until you want to try it again . This is what I did with whisky . As a teenager / young adult , I really liked the smell of whisky but did n't like the taste -- in hindsight , it was probably the alcohol content that was the problem . Every now and again I 'd have a taste from my father 's glass or from somebody I was drinking with at a bar . For a long time , I did n't like it but I still liked the aroma so I kept trying a couple of times a year . Eventually , I started drinking it . A few things to bear in mind about wine . Avoid cheap wine and do n't waste your money on expensive wine that you wo n't appreciate . Low price is n't a guarantee of low quality and high price is n't a guarantee of high quality but it 's worth spending , say , twice the price of the cheapest bottle if you 're at the supermarket . That 's likely to lift you into wines that you 're disliking because you dislike wine , rather than because they 're bad . Red wine , poured straight from the bottle often tastes rather harsh . Open the bottle half an hour or so before you want to drink it and let it sit in the glass for a couple of minutes before you drink . Wines ( especially red ) with just one or two grape varieties named on the bottle usually have simpler , less challenging tastes . Sweeter white wines will probably be more appealing to you than drier ones . Try something like a sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay , rather than , say , a pinot gris/pinot grigio . Riesling can be anywhere from super-sweet to mouth-puckeringly dry depending on what the winemaker did . Supermarkets in the UK sell quarter-bottles of decent-but-not-amazing wine . That 's a good way to try lots of different styles without having to spend a lot of money or feeling that you 're wasting a whole bottle if you do n't like it . This suggestion is heresy but ... consider chilling red wine . Chilling tends to make harsher flavours less noticeable . If you find you like it chilled , try chilling it less . Ask a wine merchant . Specialist wine merchants love to talk about wine . Do n't be embarrassed to walk into one of their stores and say , " Hi . I like the idea of wine but I 've never found a wine I like drinking . " Their eyes will light up because this is a challenge to them to use their skills to make a customer really happy . If you buy a couple of bottles on their recommendations , you 'll be their favourite customer of the day , I guarantee . Doubly so if you go back a week later after liking what you bought . Go for it !
At a microscopic level metal is malleable , and so the edge tends to bend rather than spall or break off . Still , it is probably technically true to a certain extent , and based on many many years of metal knife usage by millions or billions of people through history , completely irrelevant . Whatever effect it may have is vanishingly small .
end question
start question
Ideas for using garlic scapes ( other than in pesto ) ?
Personally , I just throw them into stir fries or fried rice ( add them near the end of the cooking time ) . I 've also had them slightly stir fried with pea shoots in sesame oil . Simple but delicious . Tofu666 , an amazing vegan blogger , fries them often . Here 's a sample : <URL> This page has instructions for pickling them : <URL>
This is totally fine . Meat gets poked and prodded all the time , whether to test it , to pick it up with tongs , or sticking a fork in it to cut . Meat just is not that fragile . Things like smashing with a tenderizer are much more violent and do affect the texture ( that 's kind of the point ) , so that 's not a great comparison . But this is a really minor thing .
As it turns out , wheatgrass juicers are simply masticating juicers with smaller gears . They work on the same principle as commercial masticating juicers , but with one ' chewing ' gear instead of two , and a hand crank instead of a motor . I read several reviews on Amazon about the Hurricane Stainless Steel wheatgrass juicer , and many indicated that it would juice leafy greens perfectly , but is n't so great with fruit or hard veggies ( carrots ) . This sounds good , as my main juicing concerns are for spinach , kale , wheatgrass , and turnip or mustard greens .
I will skip everything that does not work on an induction range , as it is pretty obvious when you purchase cookware whether it is marked as suitable for induction or not . The benefit of induction is an immediate start and stop of energy transfer , from the point of view of the cook . There are other benefits , like safety , but we focus on cooking here . For a two-hour stew , it really does n't matter whether you use induction or anything else . Material-independent Your cookware should really , really match the size of the induction plates , as all induction stoves check the flow of current and disable the induction plate , if there is something wrong . You can use larger cookware , but this increases the uneven heating . So , buying a full set of cookware is often a bad idea , you will always end up with something that does n't quite fit . So triple-check the diameter of your induction plates with the cookware . ( Also , you always end up with something that you never use in such a set and with one particular pan that you always use and that is always dirty when you need it . Match the cookware with your cooking habits and servings . ) Stainless steel For stainless steel , there are three available bottoms . The least expensive stainless steel products will be usually made out of type 3xx series with nickel , have no core at all and will not work on induction anyway . Cookware out of 4xx series stainless steel will work on induction , but this cookware is not as resistant to corrosion . I do not recommend either cookware . The mid-range items will have a noticeable disk attached to the bottom of the cookware . This is a layer of magnetic steel and a slice of aluminium . Some manufacturers put a thin-layer of copper in there too . This is just marketing and has no noticeable effect . If it 's a noticeable disk on the bottom , avoid it - it will work , maybe you wo n't even notice anything bad , but you will lose the benefits of the induction . Then you have the standard sandwich bottoms . The inner layer is full 18/10 stainless steel , while the outermost layer is 18/0 magnetizable stainless steel and the middle layers are made out of aluminium , to distribute the heat . This is a sandwich bottom with an aluminium core . Again , some manufacturers will declare their core as being made out of 5 or more layers of aluminium , but this is again just marketing . Aluminium core is okay . This is the choice if you do n't want to waste money , but do need to be price-conscious . Finally , you have sandwich bottoms with a copper core . They are like the standard sandwich bottoms , but with a copper core between two aluminium layers . The mean thing is though now - manufacturers are smart , so they often make a standard sandwich bottom with a tiny layer of copper . This is not the same as a real copper core though . If you want to reap most of the benefits of an induction stove and want stainless steel products , you need to get something with a copper core . Again , it is completely fine to get other stainless steel products that are suitable for induction cooking . Cast-iron Most cast-iron cookware producers will warn about scratching , because cast-iron will never be as flat as a steel/aluminium bottom . If you are worried and must slide the cast-iron cookware on an induction stove , there is a simple solution : parchment paper between the stove and the pan . Otherwise , there is nothing special about cast-iron on induction .
As Lars Friedrich already wrote , curing with salt is a way to kill bacteria . A high sugar content and the removal of water in general alters the <URL> .1 Some chemicals are toxic to bacteria ( and to some extend also toxic to humans ) like <URL> ( which is used to preserve caviar ; I 'm not sure if it only inhibits the growth of bacteria ) or ethanol ( drinking alcohol ) . <URL> are used - not exclusively - in wine making and on dried fruit . You can alter the pH. I doubt the food will be edible as-it-is . Last but not least you can <URL> the food to sterilize it . Irradiation is also commonly used to sterilize ( disposable ? ) medical equipment . Please note that freezing does not kill any bacteria . Side note : There are some other <URL> but they are not common as foodborne pathogens . If you really want to be sure that the food is sterile without cooking , you have pressure-sterilize , " poison " it or irradiate it . You can also preserve food even with bacteria and fungi : A sourdough has an almost indefinitely shelf-live . It basically only consists of flour , water and a mix of many different bacteria and yeasts . <URL> also has a very long shelf life . For further reading : The <URL> rule describes the six favorable conditions required for the growth of foodborne pathogens . 1 Caveat : ( Botulinum ) spores survive in honey . Do they count as bacteria ?
Personally , I just throw them into stir fries or fried rice ( add them near the end of the cooking time ) . I 've also had them slightly stir fried with pea shoots in sesame oil . Simple but delicious . Tofu666 , an amazing vegan blogger , fries them often . Here 's a sample : <URL> This page has instructions for pickling them : <URL>
Taste-wise there will be little to not difference in the result . Just be careful to use the proper ratio of garlic to salt ( generally 3-to-1 salt to garlic powder ) .
Short answer : tomato sauce is a <URL> . Another interesting link can be found <URL> . Tomato sauce in an interesting creature . Think about ketchup . You try you shake some out and nothing . So you tap the bottle a little bit , still nothing . Tap it a little harder , and a little harder , and suddenly boom : a flood of ketchup . The " jumpiness " of tomato sauce is caused by the same physics . Basically , tomato sauce has two things in it that contribute to this characteristic : water and tomato pulp . At first , the tomato pulp is just lying around every which way , which makes the sauce act a lot thicker . But when the strands of pulp are aligned , it makes the sauce act a lot more like water . Heating up the sauce increases the pressure on the sauce , allowing areas of the sauce to become much more fluid , resulting in bubbling , popping , and the flinging of tomato sauce all over your clean white shirt . The same effect is what makes ketchup come flying out of the bottle - when you whack it hard enough , the pressure changes the state of the ketchup , and the ketchup literally flows like water . Edit : updated with relevant information Unfortunately , when I managed to get a hold of Mr. Steingarten 's lovely book , <URL> , * I discovered that the passage regarding tomato sauce as a non-Newtonian fluid was exclusively regarding ketchup , and not general tomato sauce as I thought I remembered . However , this description is still a valuable one , and it does help explain this particular characteristic of tomato-based sauces ( after all , ketchup is a tomato based sauce ) [ p 96 ] : It was only after I had send a stream of ketchup streaking across my wife 's favorite tablecloth , a lovely hand-printed Indian cotton from a shop on the rue Jacob , that I telephoned Professor Malcolm Bourne at Cornell for a lesson in non-Newtonian fluids . Sir Isaac Newton wrote the laws governing liquids that flow like water : the more force you exert on them , the faster they flow . But ketchup is different . Composed of tangled red tomato fibers suspended in a sweet and acidic colorless serum , ketchup behaves like a solid both at rest and under low levels of pressure : but then , at some higher threshold , it suddenly begins flowing like an ordinary fluid . That 's why the frustrated ketchup lover who loses patience with gentle taps on the bottle 's bottom and prematurely shifts to a powerful wallop ends up with a gush of ketchup over everything . Ketchup and mayonnaise are known as Bingham fluids , named after the scientist who characterized them early [ last ] century . * Personally , I think that The Man Who Ate Everything is a must-read for anyone interested in culinary science , and a should-read for anyone interested in food . Second Edit : Due to a handful of downvotes that I received while I slept last night , I guess some clarification is needed : I just want to be absolutely clear here , I am in no way implying that . I offer this information as an example of how tomato pulp suspended in liquid acts . The fact that " tomato sauce is thick " does n't really hold up . The question even clearly states : " Of all the sauces and creams I prepare in a hot pot , tomato sauce is the most jumpy " , which presumably includes thick ones . If thickness was the only factor ( and I 'm not saying that it is n't a factor ) , we would see similar actions from cheese sauces , bechamels , gravies , and a variety of soups . While these sauces/soups do splatter , tomato sauce is significantly more " splattery . " Put a pot of tomato sauce next to any other sauce/soup , take your pick , and heat them to the same temperature . I can pretty much guarantee that given similar conditions , you 're going to be wiping up a lot more tomato sauce than the other one . One last edit : <URL> on Slate indicates that it 's a combination of the above ( being a " plastic liquid " ) , the viscosity , and pectin , as pointed out by Brendan in a comment below .
Simply put : No . Step 3 on <URL> : Just be sure that the temperature remains at about 130 to 150 degrees Thinking of beer fermenting , specific temperature ranges are required because that 's what keeps the yeast happy . Not sure about the function in this case , but it follows that it 's probably temperature-sensitive as well . A food dehydrator would probably be a better bet than the oven .
In general lard can always be substituted for butter , but you will not get the same flavour , obviously . Lard is perhaps a bit more ' savoury ' than butter , so it may be worth trying a pie out just to see if it works with a sweet filling . You should be able to convert straight from butter to lard . Another alternative is vegetable shortening , which you can use in all kinds of baking .
The exact number of cutting boards is n't critical , the important piece is minimizing cross contamination . You can use one cutting board safely as long as you 're using it in a food-safe order ( cut vegetables , then proteins ) , and follow good sanitation practices ( wash &amp; sanitize the board between ingredients ) . A quick scrub with soap and water and a spritz with a bleach , alcohol , or quat solution between ingredients will minimize your need for different boards .
Most pestos use olive oil , which solidifies at around 6 degrees celsius - just over the temperature of the average fridge . The shop-bought pestos you buy probably adulterate the olive oil with other kinds of oils . In any case , you 'll be able to eat your pesto just by leaving it out at room temperature for a few hours , or by just scooping it out and adding to your hot pasta .
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
Garlic in pickling recipes is just for flavor . It does not effect the chemistry of the pickle -- either for vinegar pickling , or fermentation pickling ( other than adding more vegetable mass to be pickled ) . ( This part of my little quest to close old questions with no answers , and no other substantive answer has been offered in the week since the question was asked . )
In the US , hamburgers are usually flat patties weighing somewhere between 3 and 8oz . and typically 100 % ground beef . Many variations are possible , including mixing spices and other ingredients into the meat , but binders such as egg and breadcrumbs are not common . The defining characteristics of a proper hamburger for most Americans are the shape ( flat ) , approximate size , beef as the primary ingredient , and sandwich-style presentation . A ground meat patty not made from beef is likely to be named differently ( lamb burger , turkey burger , etc. , even though the name ' hamburger ' has nothing to do with ham ) . Meatballs are smaller ( maybe 0.5 to 3oz ) , roughly spherical , more likely to be seasoned , much more likely to contain eggs and/or breadcrumbs as binders , made from just about any kind of meat , cooked differently , served differently . Also , the cultural traditions surrounding each are completely different . Spaghetti with meatballs and tomato sauce is classic comfort food ; spaghetti with hamburger is unthinkable . Meatballs are usually served in a sauce of some kind ; burgers ( beef or otherwise ) are served on a bun or bread with mayo , ketchup , mustard , melted cheese , lettuce , tomato , and so on . Many people like their hamburgers ( beef ) cooked rare or medium rare , but meatballs are always fully cooked . Meatballs can be held at temperature for a long time , or even cooked , chilled , and reheated ; only cafeterias and other low-quality , high volume restaurants would pre-cook and reheat a hamburger -- at home or at a good restaurant the burger would be served as soon as possible after cooking .
Yes there are benefits ! This is one of my most used pieces of kitchen equipments . Here is a list of benefits for a quality rice cooker : Never burns rice No guess measurements for all kinds of rice Scheduled cooking Keep warm settings Uniform cooking When I cook rice on my stove , even at the lowest of heats , I get a thin layer of rice that has overcooked stuck to the bottom of the pot . For the record I have the <URL> . Best thing ever .
The difference between sweet and tart cherries is not so much the sweet , but more the tart . If you look at the nutrition information you 'll find that tart cherries have about 2/3 as much sugar as sweet , but twice as much Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) which is what gives them their tart flavor . With this in mind , most sweet cherry pie recipes include lemon juice , while tart cherry pies recipes do n't need the lemon juice for balance . Recipes for both type seem to use between 1/2 to 1 1/2 cups of sugar , so as Stephie says , " It 's mostly a matter of taste " From personal experience - I made 2 cherry pies using a tart cherry pie recipe , except substituting Bing cherries . I got more great reviews for those pies than you would believe . ( It might have something to do with the sweet tooth gene on that side of the family )
You could try <URL> : Stick it in the freezer , and skim off the ice . Keep the ice , discard the liquid and melt the ice . If you had a freezer that you could precisely control the temperature , I believe there are certain preferred target temperatures , but simply checking on it frequently in a standard freezer should do the trick . The vacuum based suggestions also sound good , if you have appropriate equipment for that . Basically , you 're asking about distillation in reverse . Traditional distillation is primarily boiling , but there 's also a few traditions ( applejack , <URL> ) involving ice distillation . In ice distillation they 're after a higher alcohol product and keeping the liquid ( discarding the ice ) , but I believe if you switch which part you keep you 'll get the same results . Much like any other distillation , you may need to run through the process multiple times to get the desired result . With beer , the primary flavoring is from compounds extracted from hops , which react with oxygen to produce unpleasant flavors . By " unpleasant " I mean turning the bitter and tangy flavors into something more like wet cardboard . So depending on what you 're doing you may also need to protect your beer from exposure to oxygen . I believe with beer the real enemy is oxygen , with heat or light accelerating the undesirable reactions . Depending on the style of beer , esters and phenols may also be important to the flavor . In styles where those flavors are desired , it 's typically a wide mix , and it 's quite possible some of them will evaporate easier than alcohol or be harder to freeze . Note that no distillation method is " perfect " , with all distillation methods you 'll have water and alcohol in both outputs of the process , you 'll just have a greater amount of alcohol in the evaporated or unfrozen part and a lesser amount in the unevaporated or frozen part . Note also that in the US any <URL> .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
Unfortunately , the usual store bought pasteurised milk undergoes a process that kills virtually everything needed for coagulation to occur , which basically means making cheese becomes a whole lot harder . The cheese you buy from stores that is made from pasteurised milk is either made from low heat pasteurisation or by the addition of additional ingredients , typically calcium chloride . I have no idea where you may be able to acquire calcium chloride where you live but you may be able to obtain low heat pasteurised milk from health food stores , maybe some of the larger supermarkets will stock it , also .
end question
start question
How should I store speck ?
You find that storing in the fridge is going to give you the longest life span . Hanging will keep keep the process of drying out continuing , which will intensify the flavour but will eventually become jerky texture . Wrapping will keep a little moisture in longer . If you do keep it for a period of time , you will develop a white mould which I will just cut of as it is just surface . The curing has stopped the pork breaking down . When I travelled through Spain , all of the city markets would have whole pieces of prosciutto hanging from there stalls that where covered in a fat that was covered in a green mould . When they needed a new piece they cut the mould and fat off and would start slicing for the customers ( some up there for over a year ) . I think the fridge is safer .
I can not tell you how they do it at that specific location , how your method differs , or what you 're doing wrong . I do n't really even know exactly how you 're brewing your coffee . However , I can tell you how to brew a consistent cup using the best possible practices . Here 's a list of things to consider Grind your coffee immediately ( not the night before ) before brewing Use a Burr Grinder , not a blade grinder . This will ensure that the grounds are of a consistent size , and provides even extraction . There is no reputable coffee shop that uses a blade grinder , and with good reason . Get a Burr grinder . If you do n't want to drop the cash you can get a hand mill for about ~ $ 20-30 . Weight your beans , do not measure them by Volume . Beans from different regions and varieties vary in density , and size . This can really throw off volume measurements . Use filtered water . Most coffee shops will have a filtration system for the entire store to prevent mineral build up in their coffee and espresso machines , as well as providing a better cup of coffee . Learn how coffee hits your palate , and learn how to adjust your brewing variables ( grind size , water/coffee ratio , brew time , temperature ) . Ditch the auto-drip . Learn how to do a manual pourover or press pot . You 'll have much more control over your brewing variables , and be able to pin point the extraction method that fits your palate best . I deeply urge you to try coffee that is n't Starbucks . Starbucks might be a notch above grocery store coffee , but is n't at all interesting ( to put it lightly ) . Try Stumptown , Blue Bottle , Intellegensia , Ruby 's Colorful Coffees . You 'll likely forget about Starbucks soon after trying coffee 's from any of the roasters I listed . Like I said . Starbucks is n't really interesting coffee . Its pretty bland , brewed with a standard auto-drip . If it tastes different it could be for many reasons , such as sitting in a thermos for a long period of time , or the grounds may sit too long after being ground . Typically larger auto-drip machines use a coarser grind because the hopper is larger . This can affect taste . There 's too many variables to nail down how to brew exactly like that starbucks store . In the mean time , I urge you to try more interesting bean varieties . You 're really missing out . For the record , Starbucks main competition ... McDonalds . Give it a read <URL>
Yes , store them individually . First , wrap them tightly in plastic wrap , preferably one that says it 's specifically for freezer use . Then wrap this tightly in aluminum foil . They 'll keep for months without freezer burn this way .
Looks like ehow has the <URL> thus far to storing bean sprouts After purchasing Bean Sprouts should be stored and washed after purchasing in growing . The article indicates that the best methods for storage are the following : Wash them after you purchase them . Wash bean sprouts after purchasing or growing . Wash them in cold water to remove seed coats , roots and other residue that may be present . If you are using them within a day , store them in the refrigerator at 40 to 45 degrees . Place the sprouts in a plastic bag with a wet paper towel to keep them moist . Store in icy water and change the water few times a day You can also store sprouts in a bucket of icy water and change the water a few times a day . Depending on how long the sprouts were in transit or on the store shelf , they should last longer than when stored in a plastic bag . Freeze them Freeze sprouts for the longest storage . Wash sprouts as described in Step One . Then heat one layer at a time in steam for three minutes . Cool right away in icy water and drain . Put the sprouts into plastic containers and seal . It also mentions in the <URL> to just grow them to provide the best freshness . Apparently the shelf life of beansprouts should only be stored up to <URL> Source : <URL>
I would n't make the layers fully in the freezer . It will be hard to seal up and may dry out . Also , frozen layers are easier to work with . The freezer will dry out unsealed cake extremely fast . I 'd bake all the cake , trim and level them , wrap tightly and freeze on Thursday . Make the sauces and creams on Friday and put them in the fridge . Assemble all on Saturday .
It seems that the secret to re-heating rice is to use a little bit of liquid during the re-heating process . <URL> suggests adding 2 tbsp . of liquid per cup of cooked rice , and about 1 minute on high for each cup in a microwave ( 5 minutes flat for stovetop re-heating ) . Another thing it hints at , though does n't outright state , is that cooked rice should be stored in an airtight container separate from the food it is meant to go with - this is likely where I went wrong , and why my rice is always soggy and unpalatable . It also suggests that 2 hours is the maximum allowable time for cooked rice to be kept at room temperature , and that it can stay stored in the refrigerator between 4-6 days , or up to 6 months if frozen under ideal conditions .
You certainly should season it , else cooking in it will make it rust . Also , your iron intake will rise rapidly if it 's not seasoned , which can become a problem if you 're eating too frequently from it . What Wikipedia is telling you is to not use reactive metal vessels ( cast iron or carbon steel ) for acidic dishes at all . Not to use them unseasoned .
Yes , you can store it for about a day in the fridge . Let it warm up again before you cook it though .
Potatoes and the plants foliage are a feast for a lot of insects , some good some not so good , but as far as I 'm aware none that will do you any harm . As bmargulies said , do n't worry overly about it . If you 're ' really ' interested , you can take a look at this site , see if you can spot your ' badguy ' :) <URL>
Salt is added at the beginning , because it takes long time to dissolve . Also , it 's maybe less important for bolognese , but you want your veggies to get infused with salty water , the taste is different from bland vegetables swimming in water salted late . Last but not least , salt 's chemical properties are important for the cooking of some dishes . The stuff which depends on volatile aroma molecules ( practically all fresh herbs ) is added at the end , after the sauce ( or stew ) is removed from the heat , because lots of the compounds are destroyed by heat , and while the flavour is still discernible , it is diminished . On the other hand , if you are using dried herbs , their most fragile molecules have long since disappeared in the air . The flavours which remain in the dried leaves are sturdier and not easily loosened from the plant matter . So by adding dried herbs early enough to allow for some simmering , you can leach more of these out of the leaf ( you are practically steeping it in the sauce ) . But if you cook them for too long , even these molecules can get damaged . Plus , there were some herbs which release unpleasantly bitter alkaloids after too long a steeping ( I do n't remember if your three are among those , but I would suspect the basil may be , as it is prone to producing off-tastes ) . So add them ~ 5 minutes before turning the heat off . Spices are a bit of a boundary case . Although dried spices do n't taste the same as fresh ones , grinding them still releases volatile molecules . So I tend to add them at the end , like fresh herbs , and I 'll advise you to do so too ( using peppercorns in a grinder ) . If I use spices which were bought pre-powdered , I throw them in earlier or together with the dried herbs .
No , you probably do n't want to just squish leftover puff pastry dough together to save it . While it would be perfectly safe , it would ruin the layering that gives the rise and flakiness that is the reason for using puff pastry . If you have a large enough section still intact , you could put in the refrigerator for a day or two , to use later . Otherwise , a typical thing to do would be to prepare sweet or savory snacks with the surplus pieces . Cut it into convenient shapes . If you have large enough pieces , sticks would be good , even twisting them to give them an interesting texture . Then , brush the pieces with butter ( or oil ) , and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar ; or grated Parmesan cheese ; or rosemary and salt ; or some other complimentary flavor . Bake the pieces up until they are puffed and golden brown and they are very nice snacks or treats .
Put in a ziplock bag with a piece of paper towel to absorb moisture , and stick in the fridge . Also applies to lettuce .
I would keep the one that you are eating the next day out . I would then freeze the rest of them . If you like them warm , you could freeze them wrapped in foil . Before eating pop them in a toaster oven until gently warmed through . If not I 'd freeze individually until solid then put in a bag to prevent your frozen bagels from sticking together , then thaw overnight ( if eating in the morning ) or in the morning ( if eating for a mid-day meal ) to eat .
Anything that outgasses ethylene should be kept away from other items ( both fruits and vegetables ) , in a well-ventelated area , if possible . Apples and bananas are the two most common culprits , but the list is much longer . Subzero has a <URL> , which I 'm reproducing below in case of link rot : Ethylene producing foods apples apricots avocados ripening bananas cantaloupe cherimoyas figs honeydew kiwifruit mamey sapote mangoes mangosteen nectarines papayas passion fruit peaches pears persimmons plantains plums prunes quince tomatoes Ethylene sensitive foods unripe bananas green beans Belgian endive broccoli Brussels sprouts cabbage carrots cauliflower chard cucumbers eggplant leafy greens lettuce okra parsley peas peppers spinach squash sweet potatoes watercress watermelon
Time is n't the main factor , gluten development is . You should knead the dough until the gluten is sufficiently developed to give the dough elasticity , and the final bread good structure . There are two simple tests you can perform to check whether your dough is kneaded sufficiently . First , the Poke Test . Form the dough into a ball , and with a floured finger , give it a light poke . If it springs back to its original shape , you 're on the right track . Secondly , you can do the Windowpane Test . Grab off a chunk of dough , then try and stretch it apart . If the gluten is sufficiently developed , the dough should n't tear - it should stretch to a point where you can see light through it , hence the name .
Unless you 're feeding 20 , chances are you want the smallest bird they have . It does n't really matter if you should have 1 lb per person or 1.5 if you have 8 people and their smallest bird is 12 pounds - and I 'm willing to bet that 's the case . That said , I generally allow 1 lb per person and do n't count the smallest children ( say , have n't started school yet . ) I also tend to send a lot of leftovers home with other people . Our feasts are very veggie heavy , but as I mentioned above you may have less control over this than you think .
Short version : If it 's only overnight , and you seal the containers reasonably well , you 'll be okay prepping any of those ingredients ahead of time and storing them in the refrigerator overnight . I often leave onions in the fridge when preparing a recipe that calls for only half an onion , or if I 've decided to use less than I prepped , or if I 'm making a salsa and I chop the onions before realizing I do n't have as many tomatoes as I thought , etc. . If you do n't cover them they will dry out a bit , but overnight does n't do much harm ; I find if they 're tightly covered , whether in a glass bowl with plastic wrap or a sealed plastic storage container , they 're just as good the next day . The same goes for carrots and celery . I 'm sure there 's been a time when I prepped too much mirepoix ; but generally speaking , if you have a cut carrot or stalk of celery in the fridge , it does n't suffer too much overnight . More than a day and it starts to dry out ; the cut surface of the carrot will start to look like the end near the tops , and possibly split . The celery dries out more quickly , as it 's got higher water content and more fragile structure to begin with ; more than a day and it 'll lose its color , eventually turning limp and yellow , starting from the cut end . For the veggies , the way to keep them freshest is with a tight seal and as little air as possible . You could put them in a zipper bag and squeeze out any extra air but I think a reasonably-sized glass bowl , covered tightly with plastic wrap and placed in the fridge , is good enough for 12-24 hours . If you do n't have room in the fridge , you 'll probably still be okay , and they may even be less prone to drying out ( the air in your fridge is very low-humidity ; sometimes you have a special compartment for which the humidity can be adjusted , for fruits and vegetables ) . I have less experience prepping meat ahead of time , unless I 'm brining or marinading it ; in those situations , the meat 's covered by a liquid that contains preservatives ( salt , acid ) that help prevent it from spoiling , and it 's always refrigerated . Keeping it cool and minimizing the contact with air or contaminants is the main thing . If you only have enough room in the fridge to store some of your prepped ingredients , use it for the meat . In this case I 'd say a zipper bag with the air squeezed out is the clear way to go ; meat is malleable and you 'll be able to get nearly all of the air out , which means it 'll store almost as well as it did before you chopped it into pieces . The thing to remember about ground , chopped or cubed meat is that anything that contaminated the outside surface of the original cut is now mixed evenly throughout . This is why it 's generally safer to order a steak rare than it is to order a hamburger rare ; the center of the steak has n't been exposed to as much of its environment as the center of the burger , during handling and storage . So even if you refrigerate your prepped meat in a sealed container with the air evacuated , effectively storing it just as well as when it was in the original packaging and in one piece , I would n't expect it to keep the same effective " use by " date because it 's been disturbed and mixed and exposed to the environment of your prep area . You 're better off doing this with a cut that you purchased recently , which has n't been refrozen and is n't nearing expiration .
Mushrooms DO require a good amount of oil due to the fact that they will initially absorb it . However make sure that you 're adding salt to them right away to help begin drawing the juices out and start them over high heat , making sure that the pan is " screaming " hot before you ever add the oil and the mushrooms so that it will retain the heat even after the mushrooms are added to the pan . As the juices begin to exude from the mushrooms they will take the place of the oil and as the juices evaporate , the oil will aid in browning of the mushrooms . As they moisture begins to evaporate you can begin to decrease the temperature to avoid having to add more oil and keep them from sticking to the pan . I think mushrooms taste best when they 've been allowed to cook to the point where the moisture has evaporated and a really good browning has taken place ( not burnt of course ) .
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
From Greenfootsteps ' " <URL> " : Pick elderberries when they are fully ripe in early autumn . The bunches should be starting to droop downwards with the weight of the fruit . Use a fork or your fingers to gently prise the fruit away from the stalks . This can be a bit fiddly but you do n't have to be too perfect with it - a few bits of stalk will not matter .
end question
start question
Why do burgers sometimes fall apart on the grill ?
In addition to the fat content , making sure the meat is cold while forming can help .
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
It aerates the sugar ( <URL> ) - adding tiny bubbles in the final product . It makes the finished product lighter and chewier instead of denser and hard .
You can get red jalapeños at some markets , but you 're right , most places sell them when they 're still green . They sell them for the same reasons they sell green bell peppers , which includes : some people prefer the milder , grassier notes ( or just do n't know better ) they 're cheaper to produce ( do n't have to wait for them to ripen , reducing water use ) they store and ship better ( as they 're not ripe yet ) . it lowers the risk of losing the harvest ( due to weather , blight , etc. from waiting 'til they 're fully ripe ) it reduces the number of field hands needed ( as they 're not trying to pick all peppers at the peak of ripeness ) if frees up the field for another planting . In the case of hot peppers , it 's more complex than the simple colored bell peppers -- the ripe peppers are often further processed ( smoked or dried ) and then sold under a different name : chipotle == smoked &amp; dried jalapeño ancho == dried poblano colorado == ripe anaheim
No , not really exposure is sort of the key in any method of light , and/or heavy , and/or cold , and/or hot , and/or direct , and/or indirect smoking or smoking in general . This holds true for charcoal grilling as well .
I 'm solidly in the flip as often as you want camp . As long as it 's not over ( or under ) cooked I find that you get better results flipping often . Plus you can rearrange things to make more room as you flip . To tell how cooked a burger is poke it with a finger or something else that 's not too sharp ; just like a steak the more cooked it is the more firm it will be . You just need to learn how " squishy " you like them . Also , as fun as it is , do n't press the whole burger into the grill ! All that happens is that the delicious juices are forced out .
Lactobacillus is the genus of the bacteria responsible for making yogurt . These bacteria consume sugars and excrete lactic acid . The acid denatures the proteins in the milk , causing them to coagulate into a delicious gel . Lactobacilli can consume sugars other than just lactose . <URL> The reason they eat lactose when making yogurt is because that 's what they have . There is more than enough lactose in milk to make yogurt . There 's no reason to add other sugars . Lactobacilli are also responsible for the fermentation of pickles . In that case , even though they still produce lactic acid , they are consuming the sugars available in the vegetables , not lactose .
I suspect the blackness comes from the spices you put on the chicken burning . Try this technique I learnt from Jamie Oliver : Season your chicken as normal . Put the pan on a high heat until it 's hot ( not stupid-hot , just hot ) . Add olive oil and the chicken skin-side down . Cook for about 5 minutes . Meanwhile , take a square of baking parchment or greaseproof paper big enough to cover the pan . Fold it in half until you have a ' folded fan ' shape . Hold the point so it 's roughly over the middle of the pan , and tear off any excess that goes over the side of the pan . Unfold and you should have a circle of paper . Scrunch it up , then run it under a cold tap and give it a shake . Turn the chicken over , turn the heat to medium low , then place the wet paper ( a ' cartouche ' ) on to the chicken . Finally put a heavy pan lid ( the lid from a casserole is ideal ) on top . Cook for another 20 minutes . The moisture in the cartouche helps keep the chicken moist and prevents it from burning . Cooking time will depend on the thickness of the breast , so do check it 's cooked through before eating ( cut it open and check it 's not pink ) .
The theory is that washing the chicken ( or any fowl ) removes all of the contaminates from the surface and cavity of the bird ( ie salmonella , etc. ) . People will be in one of two camps - 1 . those that have been told to do all of their lives , so they do it , and 2 . those who do n't because it is really not necessary . You cook your birds to a certain temperature internally for a reason , that is to kill all of that stuff . Really , the truth of the matter is that there are far higher risks in washing the bird and spreading all of those juices all over your sink ( thus contaminating the sink and possibly some work surfaces ) . There is no increase in flavour , there is no practical reason to bother . Professionally , it is not done . However , having said that , the one time I do rinse and pat dry is when I am applying a rub . It ensures that the chicken is dry and I can effectively rub , instead of the rub turning to a paste .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
The eggs are for binding - they keep the filling together . They might also provide some substance/body to the filling . Not knowing what recipes you 're looking at , it 's hard to say for sure , but since you tagged this with " cheese " I 'm guessing that the fillings would start to melt and ooze out of the shells if you did n't use egg .
Convenience : It 's more convenient and easier to monitor the temperature inside the home . The oven has a thermostat , where the grill temperature needs to be monitored and adjusted manually . No smoke left : Is could be assumed that the smoke has been exhausted . Too much smoke : The smoke flavor could become too strong if finished on the grill .
" Bold " <URL> a flavor term in general , usually referring to a type of bean ; however , on coffee makers , it appears that the water <URL> , which allows more flavor to be extracted from the beans . <URL> confirms that this appears to be the case on at least one Cuisinart model .
Your ratio of butter to cookie is probably the main problem here : using too much butter and refrigerating it overnight will give your crust the texture of ... well ... refrigerated butter . So , change the recipe and use one of the following options : Lightly soak the cookies in coffee/tea/lemonade / Cognac/whatever liquid is to your taste . Use less volume of butter and add the same volume of cookies . Powder the cookies in a blender Use a mixture of oil and butter ( take one with a neutral taste like grape-seed oil ) . Test out a few spoonfuls in some shot glasses ( 50/50 , 60/40 , ... until you get the texture you want ) You can also combine the above , but that would be riskier : change one parameter at a time ... Can I have a piece of that perfect blueberry cheesecake now ? :-)
You would use raw corn . You can either grill it on the cob , or use a <URL> .
It needs very even heat to cook through without burning ( underneath if you cook it on the hob ) . presumably if you cook it on the hob you need to use a bain marie and for individual ramekins this is quite specialised and large . In the oven you can just use a roasting tin for your bain marie for several ramekins .
Try heating the cream and milk to just below a simmer . Right before adding the milk mixture to the yolks whisk the sugar , vanilla , and eggs together . Pour the hot milk mixture into eggs very slowly . It 's best to strain it through a fine strainer . If you use vanilla bean make sure to add it after straining it . Let cool a little before putting it into the fridge . It should be cold before making the ice cream . It 's not necessary to fully temper ice cream base like crème anglaise .
Using a cut of meat without too much connective tissue will definitely help . Talk to your butcher about good options . Stew meat is n't the best choice ; it contains a lot of connective tissue which breaks down during the long , slow stewing process . Grilling is too hot and quick to break down that tissue . If you do grill stew meat , lower temperature and longer cooking time may help some , but in that case you 'll probably want to do the veggies separately . A good marinade will help . You can add some meat tenderizer , or make fresh pineapple juice one of the marinade ingredients . Pineapple contains an enzyme that 'll break down some of the connective tissue , but it has to be fresh -- canned juice will have been heated , destroying the enzyme .
end question
start question
What is pizza sauce ?
Pizza sauce is , presumably , whatever tomato-based sauce you 'd put on a pizza . Those tend to be essentially like smooth ( not chunky ) , lightly seasoned spaghetti sauce . If by " plain tomato sauce " you mean a jar of tomato sauce for spaghetti , you 're probably in good shape . If you mean a can of pure tomato sauce , with no other ingredients , you 'll probably want to add some seasoning . Basil and oregano are good bets for herbs ; garlic and onion are also common , and perhaps crushed red pepper if you want a little kick . If you 're looking for a real recipe , <URL> , but search engines will serve you well .
The original Buffalo Wings are made with <URL> . The original recipe is simply equal parts melted butter and hot sauce . However , you truly can use just about whatever hot sauce you want in even greater ratios if you want more kick . There are also some distributors that specialize in spicy wing sauces . I recommend <URL> if you are adventurous and enjoy a very nice kick of heat .
It was called <URL> , and indeed the ancient Romans used it , as did the ancient Greeks : Garum was prepared from the intestines of small fishes through the process of bacterial fermentation . Fishermen would lay out their catch according to the type and part of the fish , allowing makers to pick the exact ingredients they wanted . The fish parts were then macerated in salt , and cured in the sun for one to three months . The mixture fermented and liquified in the dry warmth , with the salt inhibiting the common agents of decay . Garum was the clear liquid that formed on the top , drawn off by means of a fine strainer inserted into the fermenting vessel . The sediment or sludge that remained was allec . Concentrated decoctions of aromatic herbs might be added . Flavors would vary according to the locale , with ingredients sometimes from in-house gardens . Like the fish sauce of today , it was extremely high in glutamic acid , AKA umami . In <URL> the author says : There appears to be no historical mention of fish sauce being used in Asia before the Early Middle Ages in Europe , which oddly enough is around the same time its use was dwindling in the remnants of the Roman Empire . That begs a question , right ? Did the concept travel , or did Asians develop it independently ? Greater minds than mine are working to definitively answer that question : ... flowed from west to east and was eagerly adopted by Asians on the Silk Road . The recipes for garum changed and adapted as they moved east and became nuoc mam and nam pla according to cultural preferences and what gifts the Asian seas had to offer . Archaeologists and food scientists are working to confirm these flows and linkages ... The production of garum and Asian fish sauce is virtually the same as well . Fresh fish and salt in some proportion ( recipes vary widely from 5:1 to 2:1 ) are layered in barrels , clay pits or earthenware crocks . Because of their large size , tuna were cut up before fermenting to prevent putrefaction , but most fish -- especially the small species are processed whole and intact . In Rome , oregano and other herbs were added at the production phase for both flavor and to suppress bacterial overgrowth , but this step is largely omitted in the production of Asian sauces . The vats are then left to ferment -- sometimes covered or sometimes uncovered ( Carthaginian and Roman ) in the heat and stirred every few days to a week to ensure even enzymatic digestion of the fish . From <URL>
Mint likes oil . And it likes water . And it likes alcohol . Like most complex flavors , mint is complicated . The greener , vegetal notes are going to be from compounds like chlorophyll , and will be alcohol and very weakly water soluble . The astringent , sharper notes are going to from compounds like menthol , which are oil soluble . In general , the faster flavors , the ones that hit fast and fade faster , are water soluble , while the ones that linger are oil soluble . Mint flavor is sold both as an extract , in a base of water or alcohol , and as an essential oil , in a base of ... oil . As for cooking , I would skip the tomatoes entirely , and do a mint and parsley pesto with walnuts and olive oil . Why ? I like mint .
Cook the chicken ahead of time . I doubt your pizza cooking time and your chicken cooking time will be a perfect match , and it is more likely than anything that your chicken would be undercooked . That would not be good for anyone . If you are worried about the chicken being dry on your pizza , you can try par-cooking the pieces instead of fully cooking them ( though that may be a little dangerous , too ) , or you can add the cooked pieces to the pizza after it has begun baking .
This is a complex question , because there are several different ways to categorize soy sauces : COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ( Chinese and Japanese are the ones most commonly contrasted -- but as you saw in Wikipedia , there are many more ) , COLOR ( light , dark , white ) , VISCOSITY ( thin , thick , jam ) , and MANUFACTURING PROCESS ( This has the most name variation , but there are just two options : fermented or chemical . Fermented is the " real thing " and also is called naturally brewed , or slow-aged . Chemical is the quick and , as usual , inferior-tasting alternative that abbreviates a months-long process into several short , chemically-laden days . Additional names for this unfortunate approach are non-brewed , non-fermented , and artificial . To avoid this type , <URL> and avoid anything containing those non-savory corrective ingredients like corn syrup and caramel coloring . ) To muddy the waters further , add into the mix the fact that flavor is most deeply influenced by the proportion of soybeans to grains -- yet this crucial factor is not typically used directly as a categorization tool . To focus my research , I tried to find a site that felt as though the writer was speaking directly to you : one that would encourage , and not overwhelm or confuse , as you decide whether to become a soy sauce affectionado . Specifically , I wanted a resource that clearly addressed FLAVOR PROFILE and USAGE . Surprisingly , a blogger named Barbara came to rest as my # 1 recommendation : <URL> . I like the simplicity and clarity of her writing style , as well as her experiential platform ( complete with honest explanation of her biases ) . The endless comments after her post provide additional insights that might be helpful , as well . Of course , <URL> always provides wonderful more scientifically-based , yet still somehow understandable , explanations . He takes 5 full pages ( 496-500 ) in his book <URL> to discuss soy sauce in all its layered glory .
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
After spending more time on search engines and thanks to the comment from belisarius ... Medium refers to the thickness level of the final sauce , and is controlled by the ratio of roux ( butter/flour ) to milk . For 1 cup of milk : thin = 1 tablespoon each flour/butter medium = 2 tablespoons each flour/butter ( a " standard " bechamel ) thick = 3 tablespoons each flour/butter Sources : <URL> , <URL>
You 've got this all mixed up ! Unless you 're deglazing to do a pan sauce , the steak should be the LAST thing cooked . It 's the centerpiece of the dish and the most expensive part , and should n't have a chance to get cold while you cook the other parts . Saving cleaning on a single saucepan is not worth eating cold steak . You MUST use a stainless or cast-iron for this . As others touch on , teflon is not safe for searing , and fast temperature changes will wreck it . Here 's how to do things : Julienne onions to saute , prepare and measure stock , trim fat from steak , cut or butterfly it if needed ( this is your mise en place ) . Start preheating saute pan for onions Start butter melting in saucepan for roux Prepare roux and saute onions at same time , then add stock to roux , whisk , and season Transfer onions to bowl , cover to keep hot , and start to preheat pan for searing steak Cook steak while finishing sauce as needed , then rest it appropriately Plate steak , garnish , sauce , and serve Alternately , here 's another approach : Mise en place ( prep ingredients , optionally pre-measure them ) Prepare sauce in advance , set aside or keep hot . Or , even do it the day before and reheat it . It 's a roux-based sauce ; it wo n't go bad in the fridge , and will reheat beautifully . Saute onions . Or , caramelize onions beforehand , and just reheat them briefly and add . Cook steak Plate , sauce , serve And , finally the deglazed pan sauce way Mise en place Sautee onions . Set aside in bowl ( or on a serving plate ) Cook steak Throw heavy cream or red wine in to pan , and deglaze by scraping vigorously with a utensil and stirring as it boils vigorously Quickly season this , and throw in the onions , a few pinches of parsley , pepper , salt , garlic , and paprika , plus optionally thyme Congrats , you now have a pan sauce with onions to throw on your steak In a professional kitchen , you 'd have your onions pre-sauteed or sauteeing at the same time as the steak , and your sauce will be prepared in bulk , beforehand . You 'd only have to cook the steak and briefly heat or season the other two parts .
Fats adhere to broad or flat areas nicely ( fettucini , linguine ) and press the creamier sauces against more tongue surface to enhance/emphasize their smoothness Pooling sauces needs nested , medium pasta ( round or flat ) that help to punctuate the sharper and more diverse flavors of a smooth , acidic by alternating between pasta and sauce Angel hair and other fine pasta do well with a chunky sauce as it is effective with pick up but does n't obstruct the sauce 's texture once you get it in your mouth My basis for this is ( 1 ) ease and volume of transport , plate to mouth of sauce ; as well as ( 2 ) how the pasta interacts with the sauce to create mouth feel and churn of sauce against tongue . As for gnocchi and other variously shaped pasta ; if it has a cavity , it should have fats , if it has a textured surface acidic sauces will cling nicely . Obviously , I would shy away from pretending any of these were definitive answers , they are reasoned and seasoned , based on sauce/pasta dynamics and experience preparing them . This book has a listing of <URL> . This book , upon which Geometry was based , also has a <URL> . I do n't seem to be able to find any good , objective maxims for when to use what ; but , considering the variety of pastas and the prolific diversity of sauces ( i.e. a different ragu for every house ) , it seems only appropriate that every person should have an opinion on why a particular sauce works with a particular pasta .
I would imagine , if the book is of reasonable quality , by prepared , they mean one that you have prepared earlier . If there 's a recipe for pizza base in the book , that 's probably what they 'd like you to use . Personally , if you 're going to the trouble of making home-made pizza , make your own base . Invariably , the pre-made bases you can buy from stores taste like chalk . There 's a few topics here that may be useful : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The best is the <URL> If you ca n't find that flour locally , there are sellers online . I find a mix of bread flour &amp; semolina works very well too . This is my favourite pizza dough recipe : <URL>
Worcestershire Sauce is added where the recipe wants a fast way to develop or add savoury richness , umami . It 's often used where umami would develop over time with slow careful cooking ( and heavy bottomed pans ) . Adding this extra ingredient is a good cheat where you just want that kick without the wait .
I 've never done anything in particular . I just do n't use soap on it .
Most of the popular ingredients for BBQ sauce ( vinegar/ketchup/sugar etc. ) tend not to mix very well together . I know whenever I 've made BBQ sauce , placing all of the ingredients into a pan together they tend to separate and are difficult to combine . Heating up the ingredients , however , causes them to combine better , and after a short time cooking they will bind together and give a more consistent texture/taste . Otherwise the different ingredients may continue to separate even when mixed , and you may find clumps of sugar that have not dissolved into the liquid etc. . It 's quite possible your BBQ sauce recipe does n't need cooking , so long as things are substituted ( like sugar for sugar syrup or honey ) in order to combine better , but this may well give an incorrect texture because of the change in ingredients . Therefore if the ingredients you use can be combined without being heated , it 's likely that it does n't need cooking , however you may end up with an uneven flavor . As pointed out in a comment by @ToddWilcox , there may also be constituent ingredients that do require cooking , such as garlic or onion , in order to achieve the correct flavor so that they do not taste raw . Some sauces may also specify being cooked simply to make them thicker or more concentrated , as adding thickening agents such as flour may affect the taste , particularly if it is uncooked . So whilst there are some BBQ sauce recipes that may get away with being uncooked based on their ingredients , there are others that will definitely require cooking .
If you let it sit in the sauce overnight then it 's no longer a sauce , it 's a marinade . That 's fine , but marinating is something you generally do with tough , cheap , and/or dry cuts of meat such as chicken breasts or top rounds ( beef ) . For a full chicken , especially the wings , drumsticks and thighs , a marinade is entirely unnecessary and in my humble opinion simply dilutes the deliciously moist interior and often makes the whole thing soggy and depressing . Generally the goal ( or at least my goal and that of the majority of restaurants I 've been to ) for chicken wings or even a traditional roasted whole chicken is a nice crispy , golden-brown , well-seasoned skin with juicy meat on the inside . You ca n't get that if you douse it in sauce before grilling it . The water in the sauce will inhibit the Maillard reaction that causes browning ( and crisping ) , and as Mike points out , the sauce may even burn . In fact , it almost certainly will burn ; most store-bought BBQ sauces only last a few minutes exposed to direct heat . With that in mind , the best time to sauce a grilled ( BBQ ) chicken is after it 's cooked , or more precisely , when it 's nearly cooked . Go ahead and season it liberally and coat it in butter or oil beforehand , but wait until it is no more than a few minutes away from being done before you sauce it . You 're not trying to cook the sauce , and it takes no more than a few minutes to get the sauce to bind to the skin - i.e. a few coats with 30-60 seconds each to reduce and form a sort of glaze . This is true for almost any meat and any cooking method as long as you 're not marinating - BBQ chicken , fried or convection-baked wings , smoked or oven-braised ribs - you almost always want to sauce it right at the end . If your technique and ingredients are good then the meat , not the sauce , should be your main attraction .
Your typical Tamari is , to my understanding , going to be closer to dark than light soy sauce . So you 'd want light as a second soy sauce . Inside Japan , there are five kinds of soy sauce : Koikuchi , which is your most typical soy sauce Usukuchi , which is lighter because it has fermented rice in it Tamari , which has more soy than wheat and thus is a bit darker Shiro , which has more wheat than soy and thus is a bit lighter Saishikomi , which is " twice-brewed " and thus twice as dark In China , you have two : regular " light " soy sauce , and " dark " , which is the light stuff processed further and aged . Therefore , " sashikomi " is the Japanese equivalent to dark soy sauce , if you want to stick with Japanese classifications . If your recipes are aimed at english-speaking audiences , however , the terms are likely to be used a lot looser and less precisely than in Japan or China . Kikkoman , which is the biggest name brand I 've seen in the US , brews a regular , a Tamari , and a gluten-free ( Tamari can have some gluten in it ) . Therefore , I would normally assume that to an American chef , " dark soy sauce " is Tamari . " Light soy sauce " might mean the low-sodium stuff , or it might mean Shiro or Usukuchi . Your basic unqualified " soy sauce " is Koikuchi .
White pizza sauce is n't nearly as defined as red sauce . It 's largely whatever you want it to be . It 's literally any sauce you top a pizza with that is white . It is often dairy based ( cream or cheese added ) , but it could also be a thin parsnip puree . It may contain herbs , it may contain butter , its up to you . Again , thickness is up to you and whatever works for your dish .
Celery is an aromatic , and 1/3 of a <URL> . It 's used for the base flavor of a lot of French and Cajun/Creole cuisine . It does n't serve any important chemical role that I 'm aware of , so you can omit or substitute it if you really do n't like the flavor .
end question
start question
Should scones dough be sticky ?
It should be reasonably dense , firm and only a little sticky on the outside - a bit like modelling clay . You should be able to knead it easily and cut shapes out of it without too much trouble . The absorptive potential of flour varies by brand and even batch , so recipes involving it always require a little improvisation - in this case it sounds like you need a bit more .
It should be reasonably dense , firm and only a little sticky on the outside - a bit like modelling clay . You should be able to knead it easily and cut shapes out of it without too much trouble . The absorptive potential of flour varies by brand and even batch , so recipes involving it always require a little improvisation - in this case it sounds like you need a bit more .
It sounds to me like you are making your pudding almost as thick as it should be . It should be able to stand up a little . In other words , if you spoon some into a desert cup or small bowl , it should make a pile . It should n't be solid like ice cream , it should be smooth , but still stay in a pile shape . Do you have custard where you live ? It should be similar to that in thickness . Though custard is very different from Chocolate pudding .
This should n't be a problem . What I recommend is to go in this order : Do n't pre-salt the food , other seasonings are fine but anything with a high sodium content should be left out Cook to your desired temp ( and I would recommend pasteurizing since it 's not a direct serve situation Pull food from bath and plunge immediately into an ice bath filled about half and half with cold water and ice to rapidly drop the temp of the food Once chilled , put in freezer to store , leave them directly in the bag your cooking with . If your using ziplocks I would suggest wrapping them in plastic wrap and then putting them back in the ziplock before freezing . When it 's time to reheat , repeat your sous vide process from the initial cook . It will take the same amount of time it initially took to bring the core up to temp + the time it will take to unthaw the food in the bath . Reheating direct from frozen is your best bet for quality . Post-sear the food and add salt at that point . Adding salt at this point will prevent the food from taking on a cured texture when it is frozen and held for a period of time . Enjoy !
I found <URL> in the LA Times with detailed experiments suggesting that soaking beans is unnecessary and it takes away the flavor and texture .
I love swordfish grilled with a little olive oil and Montreal steak spice . All the firm fish are great on the grill . Firm fish like ahi tuna and swordfish can pretty much be treated like really good steak , just cook them carefully because you want them left on the very-rare side of things . If you do it in a pan make sure there 's hot oil or butter ( or both ) before you add the fish and do n't move it around too much . If you fuss too much with the fish it will fall apart . As delicious as swordfish is a lot of the fish on the market is n't being sustainably caught . Make sure to ask where its coming from . Most of the US and Canada fisheries are pretty good .
I 'd do one or more of a few things : Treat it like the dough in <URL> , in which you sprinkle flour on top , then pull off a portion you need , then shape quickly into a ball , developing the outer skin , keeping the freshly floured side out . Chill down the dough , so it 's firmer and easier to work with . ( and then do # 1 while it 's still a bit cold ) Put it into muffin pans or similar for baking , so you do n't have to worry about it holding up on its own or even attempting to shape it . ( if you can shape it a little bit , you can then put it into a pan with enough of a lip to give them some support as they rise ; they might spread into each other , but you can typically break them apart after they 're baked ) In general , I find that kneading dough in a mixer ( unless specifically called for in a recipes ) always needs more flour . Basically , when you 're kneading normally , you might work in 1/2 cup or so of extra flour . And there are the issues with knowing what the proper way to <URL> if the measurements are given in volume ( cups ) and not by weight , which will easily throw off any bread recipe .
I 've never heard that . I have picked end of season tomatoes when they were green and let them ripen and used them for any purpose that I would normally use ripe tomatoes . And I know others who do also . It 's much better than losing them to a frost or to animals . If there is any downside , it would be that they might not be as flavorful as vine-ripened , but that still beats losing them . Also consider that most of what we get in grocery stores come from large farms where they are picked green . Just for the sake of saying it , many stores now also sell vine-ripened or locally grown tomatoes but they do cost more .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
According to <URL> : Whole fruits can be stored for a month in a cool , dry area , or refrigerated up to two months . The seed pips can be frozen in an airtight bag up to one year . Fresh juice should be refrigerated and used within two to three days . In my experience in a very dry climate ( Colorado ) after a couple weeks the skins become desiccated and very hard -- you need to saw through them with a serrated knife -- but the seeds are still mostly unaffected . They will shrink somewhat , but still remain unspoiled and flavorful . However , if you refrigerate them , ensure that you do not let them get too cold . According to <URL> : [ ... ] exposure to temperatures below 5 ° C ( 41 ° F ) during storage and transport for longer than 4 weeks is a major cause of deterioration [ ... ] The minimum safe storage temperature is 5 ° C ( 41 ° F ) for up to 8 weeks , if decay is not a problem . For longer storage , the temperature should be at 7 ° C ( 45 ° F ) to avoid chilling injury , but decay [ ... ] and weight loss may become a limitation . Sorry that the photo is not better quality .
While not perhaps a definitive answer , according to <URL> : Besides its amazing flavor and texture , sweetbread is nearly impossible to overcook . [ ... ] you can sear the exterior of sweetbread to your heart 's content , without worrying about the interior turning chewy and tough . Your cooking timeframe , in other words , is extremely forgiving and long -- minutes long , rather than tens of seconds . This implies that sous-vide is perhaps not as helpful for sweetbreads as it might be for some other foods that are more temperature sensitive . The only recipe I could find that mentioned a temperature was a <URL> that suggested 60 C ( 140 F ) for one hour . Note that this is one of the time and temperature combinations that essentially kills all pathogens that may be present . From these facts , I infer that you want them cooked though ( which the traditional blanching method will ensure ) , and hot for service , but a specific temperature as is used for beef is not important .
Time is n't the main factor , gluten development is . You should knead the dough until the gluten is sufficiently developed to give the dough elasticity , and the final bread good structure . There are two simple tests you can perform to check whether your dough is kneaded sufficiently . First , the Poke Test . Form the dough into a ball , and with a floured finger , give it a light poke . If it springs back to its original shape , you 're on the right track . Secondly , you can do the Windowpane Test . Grab off a chunk of dough , then try and stretch it apart . If the gluten is sufficiently developed , the dough should n't tear - it should stretch to a point where you can see light through it , hence the name .
It 's not drastically important in making it workable , it 's more important in the texture of the finished result . When you roll out pastry dough , you are created interleaving layers of fat and the flour/water mix . When you cook it , the fat melts , leaving pockets in the dough , causing it to form flaky layers . This results in a crisp , light pastry . For this to happen , the fat must remain as solid as possible until cooking . If the fat melts and blends with the flour and water before cooking , you will have a dense , cardboard-like pastry . Also , warm pastry dough tends to become sticky and hard to work with .
Personally when ever I do Swiss rolls or anything requiring me to roll or manipulate the sponge in any way I 'll use a Genoise sponge recipe . It 's a bit more effort to make than a bog standard pound cake recipe but worth it . While still warm I 've managed to roll it anywhere between 2mm thick and 3cm with little or no cracks or splits . In my opinion the optimum thickness for a full sized Swiss roll is around 1cm thick , but obviously if making canape sized versions you 'll be looking more towards the 2mm thickness .
Garlic is full of sticky ( and tasty ) oils , which is what makes it stick to your knife and fingers . Dipping your fingers in olive oil and carefully rubbing them on the flat of the knife blade should prevent the garlic sticking .
It is absolutely worth adding ground pork or veal . I usually use a leaner ground steak and compensate with a fatty ground pork ( shoulder is good ) - fat = flavour . Another tip is to take your time . Many people try and cook bolognese in half an hour , but considering ground meat is usually made with tougher cuts , you end up with tough meat and under-developed flavours . Use plenty of onions and garlic , brown your meat well , use good wine , stock , tomatoes and herbs ( thyme , rosemary and bay ) and gently simmer that bad boy for at least 3 hours . For ultimate flavour , cook it the day before and let the flavours marry overnight .
Treat it like beef steak . Super-hot pan , slap it on , keep pressing it with your finger , when it feels very firm , it 's well done ; about 5-6 minutes a side in general but it will depend on thickness ; the finger test never lies . Let it rest for a few minutes after cooking .
If your carrots are going soft after just a few days , you 're not storing them properly . Mine keep for weeks and weeks . I leave them in the plastic bag , and keep that in one of the vegetable drawers in my fridge . How are you storing yours ? A rubbery soft carrot is n't bad for you , it just is n't very pleasant . A slimy carrot is bad for you , do n't eat it .
Optimal yeast growth happens at around 37 degrees Celsius ( 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit ) , but dough will rise at any room temperature . As the temp rises , the yeast becomes more active , which is why you 'll sometimes see recipes call over overnight rests in the fridge , where activity slows or stops . Yeast dies at anything above 50 C ( 122 F ) . The important thing is knowing the temperature and , if you 're really particular , the humidity in the air around your proof . This information is used for the sake of timing consistency , more than anything else .
end question
start question
Chilling ? How can I quantify that ?
" Completely " definitely is n't a standardized term ; however , since we 're talking about making ice cream here , the correct answer is going to be " as cold as possible without freezing " . When making ice cream , it 's important to get the mixture as cold as possible before you freeze it , especially if you 're not using an ice cream machine , so that you give it as little time as possible for ice crystals to form . If large ice crystals form , then you wo n't have ice cream , you 'll have ice . So get it all the way down to refrigerator temperature and work quickly when you take it back out of the fridge . It 'll be quicker and easier if you chill the bowl or receptacle first .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
Seems this is very common in Britain , where I come from , so google.co.uk did the business ! The recipe here allows storing in a cool , dark cupboard for up to six months , and it recommends leaving the eggs at least a month : <URL> This one looks good , and I like the instructions for eating ! <URL>
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
I think it depends how fussy a presentation you are working on . If it has to be perfect , there really is n't going to be any fixing it . If some variation is acceptable , just wait til it is a bit softer and patch the rip back together like you would any other dough . You 'll get less nice separation of the layers in that area .
I 've used both sugar and orange juice to sweeten mulled wine in the past , but obviously orange juice would change the flavour significantly . Add more sugar slowly , tasting as you go .
I did a little digging and ran into a <URL> on canning bacon . It is apparently possible , even easy . Basically , the process seems to be : lay bacon strips on paper , put another piece of paper over them . Roll this up ( and possibly fold it ) and put the roll in a mason jar . 90 minutes at 10psi ( I 'm quoting here , I 'm not a canner myself ) and voila , canned bacon . I found <URL> of a commercial canned bacon product . It was not flattering . Not even a little bit . I do n't know what that says about the possible taste of home canned bacon , if anything .
The chemical responsible for " the burn " is Capsaicin . The main reason you and everyone else has trouble with the lingering burning sensation is that it 's not water soluble ( which means it does n't dissolve in water ) . So , flooding your mouth with water-based liquids does n't loosen up those Capsaicin molecules on your tongue and throat . Like @Iuls says , the most common and effective relief comes from full-fat milk or cream . That 's because , while Capsaicin is n't able to be dissolved by water , it is fat soluble . It 's also why more than a few people have been upset that the " milk solution " did n't work , when they tried it with skim milk . If you 're looking for a more " fun " solution , it 's worth noting that Capsaicin is also alcohol soluble , which might explain all of that tequila and beer they sell at Mexican restaurants .
The most common methods to create chocolate coated ice cream bars , with or without a stick are to : Use truly tempered chocolate , which may be more trouble than it is worth Use a mixture of chocolate thinned with vegetable oil . See for example , this recipe from <URL> .
I usually notice when cutting onions and tomatoes . With a very sharp knife cutting an onion does n't cause much tears at all . As it dulls though it does more crushing than slicing which releases more gas into the air , which makes you cry more . Ripe tomatoes help because they are so tender . If it becomes difficult to slice a tomato without crushing it , your knife is too dull . A well used , properly cared for knife should require sharpening every 6-18 months , depending on usage . Mine get sharpened yearly . You may find it beneficial to read these related questions , and their answers : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I would n't trust any store brand to omit seeds entirely ; it 's just not going to be a priority for them . I 'd suggest making your own instead . It 's fairly easy and fast to seed tomatoes using a chinois , and to seed peppers using a knife . And it 'll taste better , too ! BTW , many online medical authorities seem to think that seeds are not actually an issue for diverticulitis ; maybe you should consider a second medical opinion ? <URL> <URL>
Alright , I 'll go ahead and post this as an answer . The fact of the matter is the Cavendish/dessert bananas should not be refrigerated . They will develop a sickly green/grey tinge to their skin . This does not really affect flavor , texture , or to the best of my knowledge , nutritional value , but it makes them look like ass . Now , to the crux of your issue : you say this is a commercial kitchen . And herein lies your problem : your produce almost certainly gets delivered in a refrigerated truck . What the delivery drivers should be doing , but almost certainly are n't , is wrapping the bananas ( and tomatoes , but I digress ) in a nice heavy blanket . But let 's be realistic , no truck driver is going to waste time doing that . So your bananas ( and tomatoes ! ) are showing up , pre-refrigerated by your produce purveyor . And there 's not a damn thing you can do about it . Or is there ? There is something you can do . But it wo n't be easy , or particularly fun , unless you 're a sadistic bastard who likes yelling at people . Get yourself a laser thermometer and meet the delivery truck when it rolls up . When the door opens , temp the bananas . ( Actually , you should do this with every time/temperature sensitive product you receive . ) If the bananas are less than ~ 50 ° F , send 'em back . Demand a fresh case . Refuse to pay . Keep doing it until you get the bananas you want . After a few rounds , your driver will make damn sure the bananas are perfect .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
These products are called thickeners . Gum Arabic is often used for this as well as karageenan , xanthan gum , sometimes corn starch or potato starch . You have to experiment with the different thickeners so you get the consistency you want .
The issue here is how long do you steep the tea , at what temperature , and under what conditions do you store the used tea bags ? The reason " sun tea " has been discouraged has been because of the likelihood that the tea leaves that are in the bags are contaminated with bacteria such that a long soak in luke-warm water such as that of the " sun tea " causes them to multiply to the extent that they become a serious health risk . Tea leaves are not typically pasteurized during their processing , and may carry viable bacteria and / or bacterial spores . If you were to soak the tea bad in warm water not hot enough to get a good bacterial kill initially , there may be enough viable bacteria in the tea leaves to grow during that 5 hour interval such that the next cup may be seriously dangerous ( some may divide every 15 minutes , for example ) . However , if you were to adequately kill the bacteria and spores off by a nice hot soak ( for this example , you would need to use a pressure cooker since some bacterial spores are not even killed by boiling water at atmospheric pressure ) , refrigerate the tea bag afterwards , and then reuse it 5 hours later it would likely be perfectly fine . I think the final answer to your question comes down to your own personal risk tolerance and the conditions above . If you brew in luke-warm water or for a very brief time and then leave the bags out at room temperature you are just asking for trouble and eventually you may hit the loaded chamber in your own personal Russian roulette game . For empiric answers , take your particular brewing temperature and time and compare it to the USDA tables for pasteurization . Then , look up the growth curves for the major pathogens at your storage temperature and figure out how many would likely be present after 5 hours ( 20 generations at 15 minutes per generation or 2 ^ 20 times more bacteria than viable after the brewing event at the end of the storage interval ) .
The oil needs to be slowly added to the egg , vinegar , and lemon juice base while being vigorously whisked . Only add more when the previous amount has been fully incorporated . I generally add the oil 1/4 cup at a time , dripping it very slowly into the base . Once the initial 1/4 cup has been added and emulsified it becomes a lot easier to incorporate the rest , and you can add it slightly faster , but still 1/4 cup at a time . This is vastly simpler in a food processor . I have a <URL> which has a little white pusher piece with a drip-hole in it . You can simply add the oil into this 1/4 cup at a time , it will slowly drip into the mix . Use the metal blade attachment .
" Completely " definitely is n't a standardized term ; however , since we 're talking about making ice cream here , the correct answer is going to be " as cold as possible without freezing " . When making ice cream , it 's important to get the mixture as cold as possible before you freeze it , especially if you 're not using an ice cream machine , so that you give it as little time as possible for ice crystals to form . If large ice crystals form , then you wo n't have ice cream , you 'll have ice . So get it all the way down to refrigerator temperature and work quickly when you take it back out of the fridge . It 'll be quicker and easier if you chill the bowl or receptacle first .
Corn starch only thickens when heated to 180 F , so it probably is not helping at all with your whipped cream . I live in the US , so I can not compare to whipped cream in the UK . Whipped cream for cake fillings is often beaten almost to the breaking point to make the foam as thick as possible . I assume you are whipping the cream sufficiently , and it still is n't getting as thick as you would like . If that is the case , you might try <URL> . The link is one of many I have found on a quick search , and it specifically calls for 35 % cream . This <URL> also has some interesting thoughts and advise . This <URL> also provides an interesting method of using creme fraiche .
Normally , you would not be doing a final proof overnight -- that is , the proof that you have done to form the loaf . Instead , you would do the first ferment or proof overnight , then form the loaf , let it have its final proof , and then bake it . The dough wo n't be wasted , but you do n't want to bake a formed loaf that has over-proofed and fallen . This is because the gluten network will have collapsed and you will have a very poor structure and strange texture . You will need to reknead the dough , form the loaf , and reproof it : Per <URL> , you can almost certainly just punch the dough down , and let it proof again . It may actually have an improved flavor . <URL> concurs : Using your fingertips , gently punch down the over-proofed dough and reshape it into a ball , then allow it to proof again for the recommended amount of time although it warns your final loaf may be about 20 % smaller .
To make you pancakes spread more , and thus be thinner , increase the amount of liquid in the recipe . This will make the batter less viscous , so that it will spread more before beginning to set , thus giving you thinner pancakes . I would start slowly , perhaps a couple of tablespoons extra milk ( or just plain water ) until you find the consistency that you like . You will also have to experiment to determine the appropriate cooking time , as the additional liquid will somewhat need to be cooked off to get the best texture . Of course , there is nothing wrong with using the bottom of your ladle to help the batter spread out a bit more . This is normal , and will somewhat even out as the pancakes cook .
end question
start question
What temperature are dark beers ( stouts and nut browns ) supposed to be consumed at ?
No , you 're not crazy . You have good taste . The reason for drinking darker beer like stouts and porters is for the flavor . If they are over-chilled , you lose most of that flavor . Do n't obsess over it , but in general a lot of people serve dark beer too cold . That said , you should drink your beer at whatever temperature makes you happy . There is nothing wrong with a nice cold pilsner or Hefe-wizen on a hot day .
Generally , no , it should not be overly gritty . The grind itself should be very fine , finer than an espresso grind . Secondly after the coffee is brewed , it 's generally covered and left for a while so that the coffee grounds settle to the bottom of the pot . Then , when being poured , it should be poured carefully so the settled grounds are n't disturbed and end up in the cup . If you do n't let it settle , you 'll have a lot of the coffee grinds floating in the cup and it 'll have a powdery texture ( although it should be overly gritty given the fineness of the grind ) . You 'll generally still get a little of the coffee grinds in the cup but it should n't be a small amount and it should settle to the bottom . Generally , the coffee is unsweetened ( as many take it unsweetened ) but it is commonly spiced with cardamon . The host will generally sweeten each cup to taste or will provide a small bowl of sugar allowing drinkers to sweeten the coffee to their own taste .
Good question @mfg . I hope I can help a little bit . The basics behind the egg wash are to provide for a couple different thing . These being shine , crispness , and color . Shine The shine is primarily provided by the egg yolk . The higher concentration of yolk the more shine . Crispness This come from the egg whites . The whites make things a little crispy and sometimes can crackle a little bit ( mainly when usually by themselves ) . Color This comes from the fat and protein . Leaving the yoke in along with the shine will add color . You can add water to lighten the color a bit . I find that using the white also dilutes the color a bit but not as much ( but the white also makes it crisp ) . Add cream or milk to get it a little bit darker . Salt I often find people adding salt to an egg wash . I does provide some flavor to the crust , but I have noticed that for some reason ( when using a whole egg ) it does allow it to get a little darker than it would normally . Sugar Like salt it adds flavor ( sweetness ) to the crust . And it will also add some color . Especially if baking at a higher temp and using a raw or brown type sugar . Alcohol I have seen the use of alcohol quite a number of times . From the results I have seen it behaves like water . Although not the the same degree . My guess is that it has to do with how fast the alcohol evaporates . As far as flavor , I ca n't say that it added much at the levels used . I did once definitely get a hint of a bourbon being used in the wash on a pretty plain white loaf . But they did mix in quite a good amount of bourbon to just an egg yolk . That is all I have really used myself or seen . I am sure that you can use other liquids although I do n't know what vinegar would do . Just keep in mind if they are high in fat , protein , or sugar they will add color . Otherwise they will lighten the color . I have also seen melted butter just used as a wash . It adds a nice color and buttery flavor . I have n't seen it added to egg wash but I would assume you could add to egg yolk to get a shine and probably darker color than cream/milk . Another important thing to remember is to beat your wash well when using for a bread coating . Unlike if your just using the was was to seal say a ravioli . If your egg was is spotty not one nice fully incorporated mixture your crust can also be spotty .
Nature has designed some food-stuff to last a long time . Grains ( wheat , rice , corn , oats , ... ) , which are the seeds of grasses , will last the longest , often more than one year . Seeds need a long shelf-life if the plant is going to make it to the next growing season . Next come roots ( onions , potatoes , ... ) , which need to last from one year to the next . Nuts , in the cooking sense , are seeds surrounded by a shell , will also last several years if they are dry . So almonds , peanuts , pine nuts will keep , but not coconuts or chestnuts . Other food types are going to need some help , which basically means getting rid of the water in the food-stuff ( lentils , beans , peas , chick peas , soybean , ... ) or slowing down bacterial growth ( through dehydration , freezing , irradiation , canning , cooling , ... ) I have cooked grains and dried beans and lentils from my pantry that were over a year old . They all made good meals .
You can try a few things . Use just the zest from the peel , and then slice and remove the pith and use just the inside . Pre-boil the lemon peels , then add them to your main dish . Remove the lemons before the bitterness gets too strong ( i.e. when you tasted the dish the first time ) but while there 's still a strong taste . This works because the citrus oils ( which are a major primary flavor contributor ) are just in the top layer of the peels , while the acid is in the inside . The pith is just plain bitter .
You have quite a bit of leeway with Instant Coffee . You can brew it using water of your desired temperature . I would recommend using water just below boiling point though , around 95-99 degrees Celsius . You could use 85-95 degrees Celsius water as well ; it wo n't make a big difference in terms of extraction of flavour , and here is why : How instant coffee is prepared in the factory : Coffee beans are roasted They are ground very finely ( 0.5 mm - 1.1 mm in diameter ) The ground coffee is mixed with water in percolation columns which reaches 155 - 180 degrees Celsius . This is the extraction process . This mixture is then concentrated and/or dried using vacuum evaporation , freeze drying , or spray drying methods . The result from this is what you get in the store . Conclusion : All of the very particular factors that one must consider when trying to make great coffee have already been decided for you . You have no control over roast , grind , time from grind to extraction , extraction time and temperature , or time from extraction to consumption . All of this been decided for you . It is up to you . Brew it at whatever temperature you like to drink your coffee at . However , it may be slightly harder to dissolve the coffee and get good flavor at cold temperatures . Keeping it on the hotter side may be better . That 's just chemistry though . Sources : I am a professional barista and coffee connoisseur . <URL>
In comments you note that you last bought a jar of green , pitted olives in brine . Those tend to be much saltier than the versions served as a <URL> in Mediterranean and Middle Eastern restaurants , in part because the restaurant versions are usually whole and thus have less surface contact with the storage brine . They 're also fresher ; restaurants that go through larger quantities of olive can afford to purchase higher-quality olives that have n't been sitting in their brine on a shelf somewhere for months ( or years ) . Olive variety may also be a factor . The picture you 've provided looks closest to me to a <URL> , which have a very mild , almost buttery flavor . This mildness comes from its processing , which is close to the preparation of the black California olives familiar to Americans . They 're washed in a lye solution , which flushes the bitterness of the fresh olive , and are then rinsed to remove any traces of lye ; they can then be brined for a short period of time , but they 're typically much fresher and less salty than other olives . I know a few chefs who like serving them as a starting course specifically because they 're not overwhelmingly salty . As others have suggested , you can seek out similar higher-quality olives in bulk at boutique grocery stores . You 'll have to pay a bit more for the privilege , but the other advantage is that such stores are usually happy to let you try some of the varieties before you buy .
Having taken a look around some recipe sites and taken the intersection of what most of them consider the " core " spices ( and leaving out the ones that showed up on too many ' variations ' lists ) , it looks like the canonical ones are : basil marjoram oregano rosemary thyme
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
It 's not a " cheat sheet " , and is rather too big to stick to your fridge , but I highly recommend the book <URL> , which is an encyclopedia of exactly these associations . What ingredients does any particular ingredient go with ? How do you cook it ? Absolutely terrific book !
Usually a cheese tasting would have more variety in terms of texture and flavour and you 'd progress from the mild to the stronger . However , if your goal is to compare a lot of similar cheeses to contrast with each other , you 'll need to have more palate cleansing and balancing in between each cheese . A lot of the cheeses that you 're considering are aged ones , which tend to be quite sharp and salty . For the harder/saltier cheeses , acidic accompaniments will be important . Things like granny smith apples and tomatoes would be ideal . Something juicy and thirst quenching like melon ( or the tomato ) would also be important to include . Proscuitto , while yummy , would probably just add more sharp saltiness to an already overwhelmed palate . As for dried fruits , another classic for cheese courses is dates since the sweetness makes a nice contrast . You might want to consider including something like a raisin bread as well as crackers for serving the cheeses . Chutney is delicious on crackers with cheese and could help balance the fact that most hard cheeses are eaten as a garnish more than on their own ( e.g. on a salad , on pasta , etc ) . However , this might interfere with the " tasting " atmosphere you 're aiming for . If you want to pair with something non-alcoholic , a sparkling water is probably a good place to start since the fizz will be refreshing and the water wo n't introduce any other flavours to the palate .
Storing Tea You tea should never become bitter due to your storage methods . The only thing that should happen to tea as a result of how you store it is general loss of flavor or loss of the complexity of flavor ( in a green tea , you might lose any honey or fruit notes of a tea that has been improperly stored , but it 'll still taste like green tea ) . There are a couple of factors at play when storing tea . The first is light . Exposure to light will degrade the quality of tea , stripping it of both color and flavor . Light also sets off <URL> . So , you should store your tea in a light-blocking container ( like a typical metal tea tin ) . The next factor is air . Tea needs to be stored in a place that does not have any strong-smelling other foods or chemicals because it absorbs other odors very easily . In addition , tea absorbs moisture from the air , so it needs to be stored in a dry place . Moisture can cause several different problems with your tea : it could start binding to the tannins and make your tea taste bitter when you eventually brew it , and excess moisture could provide breeding grounds for bacteria or fungus , which would make your tea unfit for brewing at all . So , store your tea in an airtight container that blocks moisture and any other nearby odors . Vacuum sealing is not necessary , unless you want to keep a batch of tea for a long time without using it at all . I have n't found any evidence supports claims of oxidation affecting taste more than moisture or light . Different types of tea are created by oxidizing tea leaves ( white teas are the least oxidized , black teas the most , and greens and oolongs are somewhere in between ) , so oxidation is not inherently bad for tea . To sum it up : Protect your tea from the harmful effects of light , moisture , ambient odors , and air by storing it in an airtight container in a cool , dark place . If stored properly , most kinds of tea leaves should retain most of their flavor for about two years , though fresher is always better . ( Some teas , like Japanese green teas , are traditionally only stored for about 3 months . ) Brewing Tea In order to achieve the best taste , brew tea according to the processor 's instructions ( at least to start with - once you become more familiar with tea and what you like , you can adjust according to taste ) . The tea manufacturer 's want their tea to taste good , and they are experts , so you can rely on them to provide decent instructions . I 've never bought tea that did n't have instructions for brewing right on the package , but in case you find some that do n't have instructions , here are some general guidelines . I 've taken this from Upton Tea 's <URL> , and it corresponds to my own experience with making tea and chatting with tea importers / shop owners , too . Whole Leaf Teas black teas : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 3-4 minutes ; if serving with milk or lemon , steep 4-5 minutes green teas : slightly less than boiling ( 180 F ) , steep 2-3 minutes oolong teas : lighter oolongs use warm ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes white teas : less than boiling ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes herbal tisanes : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 5-8 minutes Fanning , Crushed Leaves , or Powder This is what most pre-bagged teas are , and since they have been processed to be finer , they require a shorter brewing time . ( Finer leaves means more surface area , so you get more tannins per second when brewing , compared to tea leaves in larger pieces . ) Use guidelines above , but brew for 1-1 .5 minutes less than whole leaf teas The bitter taste comes from <URL> . There are two ways for tea to become unpleasantly bitter : steeping at too high a temperature , or steeping for too long . ( It 's also possible that if your water is heavily chlorinated or otherwise impure that it could be making your tea taste bad , but that 's far less likely than improper brewing . ) If you 're making tea from loose tea leaves , using too many leaves could also make your tea bitter ; a good rule of thumb is 1 teaspoon of tea per 8 oz of water , though this can vary depending on the type of tea you 're making . Generally speaking , the longer you brew tea , the more tannins will be released and the bitterer the tea will be . If you use the times above as a starting point , you should n't get any overly bitter tea , but remember : each batch of tea is unique , and each tea drinker 's taste is different . Experiment until you find what you consider to be the perfect cup of tea . Lastly , start with good quality tea . Some tea is poorly processed and the flavor is ruined before you 've even opened the package . If you start with a high-quality tea , you 're much more likely to get good results . :)
To be perfectly honest with you , in all my years of cooking in kitchens I never took the temp of the fish . It was always by feel and look . Yes , I know that the gov ' t has guidelines that say 145F for fish but really when it comes down to it , if you have an 8oz cut of salmon/cod/monk in the pan , sticking an instant read into the middle wo n't do you much good . ( Caveat : If it was a salmon Wellington I would shoot for 130F as it 's a fully enclosed package that you ca n't feel for doneness ) The thickness of the cut will make a huge difference in when you should pull it out as you get post-oven cooking during resting in which the heat continues to heat the core of the flesh up to a final cooked temperature . That 's why most chefs will take the roast out at a rare measured temp when they are shooting for a med rare serving state . If your question is what state should monk fish be served , IE med rare ( like salmon ) or rare ( like tuna ) then I would say med-rare is your best bet . Over cooking is a bad thing for monk fish and it goes from a lovely moist state to dry nastiness really quick . A nice way to cook it that helps to give you a little move wiggle room when cooking it is to wrap it in Parma ham ( prosciutto ) . The little extra wrapping tastes great but also gives you a little bit of buffer as you get close to that magical temperature of doneness . Hope it helps .
This is not an argument you can win . Say your prepared food item is a raw carrot . Clearly carrots are safe at room temperature for weeks and months . They might get rubbery and unpleasant , but they are n't going to make you sick . You can probably even prove this . Now consider a bowl of chicken stock . Rich in both nutrients and water , bacteria are going to love growing in it and even an hour or two at room temperature might be dicy . And between those two things you have items like baba ganoush which , yeah , is probably ok for a few hours . But that 's not the point . Inspectors and rules ca n't do " spectrum " and they ca n't do " read the ingredient list " or " read the ingredient list and cooking instructions " ( since raw beaten eggs would poison you way faster than a hardboiled egg would . ) They need a simple rule that inspectors and vendors alike can understand and enforce . The actual facts of how that particular dish spoils do not and can not come into it . Customers , vendors , and inspectors need to see at a glance " yes , this place is following the rules " not " well , that might be ok but I 'll need to see whether or not they have icing sugar in this version " . It 's not about what would be safe at home . It 's not about the science of bacteria growth . It 's about overall consistency and overall safety . A beautifully-optimized set of rules with 10 or 20 or 50 categories might feel fairer , but would confuse entry-level employees , require tons of signs , labels , written procedures etc , and a vendor would never be completely confident that an inspector would n't say " this isnt A-1B dip , it 's clearly A-2B dip and I 'm writing you up ! "
If your carrots are going soft after just a few days , you 're not storing them properly . Mine keep for weeks and weeks . I leave them in the plastic bag , and keep that in one of the vegetable drawers in my fridge . How are you storing yours ? A rubbery soft carrot is n't bad for you , it just is n't very pleasant . A slimy carrot is bad for you , do n't eat it .
While ideally Parmesan may be stored ( at home ) in refrigerated environment , there is no harm done to it ( assuming nothing else like condensation occurs ) by allowing it to sit at a warmer temperature for a few days . It is , after all , aged at ambient temperature for 2 years . At least where I live , stores do not even put Parmesan in a refrigerated case ; it is sold from tables at room temperature would would be slightly higher than what you measured in the shipping box . I think your 18 C cheese should be just fine . See also : <URL>
I think Doug and yossarian both touched on the main points , but to summarize , there are four reasons why you might not want to use a meat thermometer for candy : Range A meat thermometer might go from 140 F to 220 F or something like that , which is plenty for meat . Candy often requires a range from about 75 degrees ( chocolate ) up to 400 + degrees ( hard candy ) . The range on most thermometers is simply not sufficient for most candies . Accuracy When you temper chocolate , 88 F degrees is an ideal working temperature ( for dark chocolate ) . Some people would consider 91 so high you might want to think about starting over . When you make caramels , the difference between 235 F and 240 F can be the difference between wonderfully chewy caramels and a sugar-flavored rock . If you ca n't read one degree increments at a glance , you need a real candy thermometer . Speed Meat thermometers often take 30 seconds to a minute to get an accurate result . When you are making candies , you have to be able to tell what the temperature is right now . Contamination I do n't want the thermometer that goes in semi-raw meat anywhere near my chocolate .
Cast iron is great for bacon , but not a grill pan . The bacon really needs to be floating on its own grease for nice even heating . The best bacon is cooked slowly . Preheat the pan so it is an evenly heated cooking surface , then slide you bacon on to the hot pan . By slide , I mean move it around on the pan before you drop it so the pan gets a coat of grease before dropping the bacon and getting it stuck on the hot pan . Let it cook at medium low heat , it will take longer but you 'll get less splatter , the bacon wo n't burn , and it wo n't dry out either , you also have a larger window of opportunity to pick up the bacon while it 's " just right " whatever that is for you .
According to <URL> : 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . Note : this is 55-60 C . The speed of the process will increase with temperature .
Summary : think of the so-called ' soft freeze ' as an extension of your refrigerator , not of your freezer . The major things that happen to frozen foods that degrade their quality are : Expansion of ice crystals during warming and cooling cycles of the freezer , degrading the texture of the food item ( making meats , for example , exude more juice or even appear weepy ) Enzymatic or chemical changes over time . These are slowed more and more the colder the freeze . Fats become rancid due to interaction with oxygen , again slowed the colder the freeze Freezer burn , as water sublimates from the food , again exacerbated by warming and cooling cycles and the freezer , and proceeding more quickly at warmer temperatures You will note that almost everything that degrades the quality of the food items proceeds faster at warmer temperatures ( even when those relatively warmer temperatures are below freezing ) . So , in general , the colder you can keep your freezer ( within reasonable limits ) , the longer the quality life of the food products stored within it . As reported by the <URL> , food is safely stored at 0 F , -10 C. All ( relevant , before someone points out cryophiles ) bacteria are dormant at these temperatures . The <URL> indicates Most foods will maintain good quality longer if the freezer temperature is -10 to -20 ° F . At temperatures between 0 and 32 ° F , food deteriorates more rapidly . Fluctuating temperatures , such as those in self-defrosting freezers , also may damage food quality . Do not plan to store frozen foods for the maximum suggested time if your freezing unit can not maintain zero degree temperatures . The soft freeze temperature of 23 F / -5 C simply does not meet these standards , and is not useful for long term freezing . So given all of this , what is the point of the soft-freeze feature of your new refrigerator ? It is to allow you to keep food ready to use fairly quickly , as meats will not generally freeze completely solid at these borderline freezing temperatures , and are quicker to warm for preparation . It allows you to hold them for longer than you could at normal refrigerator temperatures , but not to store for the long term as in freezing to the recommended temperatures . This is in line with the information given by <URL> : The Soft-Freeze temperature helps keep meats or fish fresh longer .
end question
start question
Is it Safe to Fry Honey ?
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
For sure , @TFD is correct that you should be wary of Wikihow - in the link you shared , the proportions of ingredients listed at the top do n't appear to match the actual amounts of ingredients shown in the pictures . " Honey Roasted Peanuts " is a catch-all phrase that is used to describe just about any type roasted peanuts in a candy coating . The catch-all extends to recipes that do n't even call for much honey ( typically a touch of honey and a bunch of sugar ) and to recipes that do n't even call for much roasting . To get roasted peanuts in a candy coating using an oven , you either have to roast-then-coat or you have to coat-then-roast . The primary difference is oven time . If you use cooked peanuts , you only need to cook the coated nuts long enough for the candy coating to bake onto the peanut - you 're just honey-glazing the peanuts - they wo n't be in the oven nearly as long as they would be if you were roasting raw nuts . It 's a fairly quick process that 's easy enough to gauge by sight . Technically , you 'd be roasting the honey coating onto the nuts - not roasting the raw nuts in honey . Note - Planters nuts are labeled as " Dry Roasted Honey Roasted Peanuts " - the peanuts are dry-roasted first then coated then roasted again . Also , for what it 's worth , the ingredients list shows they contain more sugar than honey by weight : <URL> . If you use raw peanuts , you would need to keep them in the oven long enough for the peanuts to roast as well . Given the oven time your link recommends , raw peanuts would not cook - so that would be one fundamental reason why your link specifies that you not use raw peanuts . Potential flaws of Wikihow aside , your link proposes a way to roast honey onto nuts , not a way to roast nuts using honey . You can certainly honey-roast raw peanuts using more time in the oven - but the timing could present problems with the coat-then-roast method . The candied coating is going to brown as your mixture cooks in the oven making it difficult to visually gauge when your formerly raw peanuts have cooked sufficiently ( or if they are cooking evenly ) . Also , you should be aware that once nuts are cooked and hot , it is very easy for them to go from done to burnt in very little time - it is probably pretty easy to burn your mix if you overshoot the roasting . It would definitely be easier to determine when a honey glaze has roasted onto cooked nuts than it would be to know when raw nuts were finished cooking in a glaze . But if raw peanuts are easier to come by or if you want to have literally roasted honeyed peanuts , it 's definitely possible but I would recommend looking to a more reputable source for guidance ( especially for cooking time ) . And once you start roasting your mix , stir/rearrange the nuts thoroughly and frequently to insure even cooking and to keep burning at bay .
The recipe appears to be close to a standard Summer Pickle recipe . It 's about a 9 % brine with 3.75 % acetic acid , which should effectively discourage human pathogens . It is not a fermented product . They 're meant to be refrigerated for at most a few months , not stored on some dusty basement shelf . Refrigerated properly , I 'd eat them without concern .
Sprouted onions are perfectly safe to eat . If far advanced the texture may not be ideal ; yours does not sound very far advanced at all ( not even green . ) Considering you can eat green onions , there 's nothing to fear from onion sprouts .
Buying local honey is one way to be sure that what you are getting is " honey " . I 've never heard of people passing off something else as honey . Is n't that why we have the fda ? If you are buying it in the store , check the lable ... my honey has one ingredient ; honey .
It sounds like it 's fermented , and more harmful bacteria or mold could definitely have grown without being visible . So it 's not safe , in that there 's definitely some risk . It 's hard to evaluate exactly how risky it is . It sounds like you 're already routinely taking risks by eating iffy food that 's not obviously rotten or moldy , so you certainly could choose to take that risk here . I 'd really advise against it , though . Remember , food poisoning is n't just about stomachaches . If you end up in the hospital , it 's going to cost you a lot more than a replacement jar of applesauce . As a side note , applesauce generally requires refrigeration . The jar you have almost certainly says " refrigerate after opening . " So it may not be a good choice for an egg substitute . You might want to look into actually shelf-stable substitutes . If applesauce is working for you , <URL> ( or chia ) or mashed banana might be good options . Flax and chia are totally shelf-stable , and while bananas do n't last forever you can at least buy them as you need them .
Here 's a neat list of plastics &amp; whether they 're supposed to be microwave-safe or not : <URL>
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
Salting , fermenting and drying render these products safe . Always salting ( including sodium nitrite , also known as pink salt ) and always drying . This creates an inhospitable atmosphere for unsafe organisms . That would cover dried/cured meat products like prosciutto , pancetta or bacon . Most salumi are also fermented , which produces that pleasant , slightly sour taste ... and further increases safety by creating an acidic environment .
Maybe I 'm wrong , but there is no safety risk at all when boiling old water . There is however something like taste . The reason the old water is discarded is because , after boiling , it lacks oxygen and will taste stale . This is also the reason why coffee is made with 95ºC hot water , or why Moroccan tea is poured from above ( to oxygenate ) ... So , as long as you boil it before drinking it should be safe .
Having just returned from Hawaii , I actually have a possible answer for you . There is a type of ginger that you can get there ( though it 's not all that common , far as I could tell ) that 's called blue ginger . It 's just like regular ginger , only it has the blue layer inside as you describe . There was a guy selling it at a roadside fruit stand when we were there . It should be absolutely safe to use . edit : I found a link to somebody talking about it . <URL>
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
That bit of the Wikipedia article is unsourced , but <URL> and says that spores may be present even in pasteurized honey . ( I never would have thought that . ) I would n't expect the cooking of the crackers to damage the spores significantly more than the pasteurization . I ca n't say for sure that there will be live spores in the crackers , but it 's a definite possibility and if you 're concerned about this then you should not risk it .
Most of the <URL> . So unopened , you should have no problem storing at room temp . Once you open the bottle , microorganism 's can get in . With a sugary liquid like Apple juice , wild yeasts will find a happy home , and ferment up a bubbly alcoholic apple beverage for you . This can take a week or two to happen , and the result is usually tasty rather than deadly . Sometimes you 'll end up with vinegar rather than an alcoholic ferment . There 's some small chance of picking up a nasty microbe in your apple juice over a three day period , but it was never enough to stop people from drinking unrefrigerated cider in the days before Pasteurization or refrigeration .
Here are a few options : Make a salt barrier around the jar . Keep jar in a bowl full of water . Use air-tight container ( does n't need to be a jar ) . Any of the above should keep ants away from your honey .
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
It was safe to keep the rump , so why would n't it be safe to keep the slices of the rump ? The only way that , according to USDA suggestion , it would n't be safe is if , in your preparation , you 'd left the raw meat out of refrigeration for longer than two hours . These guidelines are generally conservative , but bacteria can grow quite quickly in meat above 40 ˚ F ( 4.5 ˚ C ) , and even more quickly above 70 ˚ ( 21 ˚C ) . Meat that will be served raw should be kept as cold as possible -- chilling your equipment before preparation is often a good idea . The issue , to my mind , is that it sounds like you 've already applied lemon juice . Being acidic , that juice will denature the proteins in the meat , changing its texture -- making it " mushy " . ( This is why marinades often contain acid ; up to a point , this action is perceived as tenderizing . ) There 's also likely to be some unpleasant-looking and - tasting , oxidation -- and/or maybe dehydration -- of the thin pieces of meat while they sit in the fridge . This is n't unsafe , but it does decrease the appeal of the beautiful rosy-red raw beef you 're supposed to have . Rubbing on some oil may help with this problem , as might plastic wrap directly on the surface . I 'd recommend preparing the meat as close to service as possible and dressing it , at least with the lemon and cheese , at the absolute last moment .
Forever . Honey , comb present or otherwise , does not go bad . It even acts as a preservative . The date you are seeing is solely referring to the " quality " degradation . Completely edible honey has been found in 3,000 year old Egyptian tombs .
I 'd suggest <URL> as a starting point . They specifically investigated the food safety of chicken in 2010 and found that ( among other things ) : Campylobacter was in 62 percent of the chickens , salmonella was in 14 percent , and both bacteria were in 9 percent . Only 34 percent of the birds were clear of both pathogens . That 's double the percentage of clean birds we found in our 2007 report but far less than the 51 percent in our 2003 report . Store-brand organic chickens had no salmonella at all , showing that it 's possible for chicken to arrive in stores without that bacterium riding along . But as our tests showed , banishing one bug does n't mean banishing both : 57 percent of those birds harbored campylobacter . Among all brands and types of broilers tested , 68 percent of the salmonella and 60 percent of the campylobacter organisms we analyzed showed resistance to one or more antibiotics . The same issue seems to come up over and over again in food safety questions , and I really ca n't stress this enough : Salmonella is not the only dangerous bacteria in food . <URL> is just <URL> and produces heat-resistant enterotoxins that simply put , can make you very , very sick . Perfringens is also common , and <URL> . I 've seen a number of articles and blogs claiming that people " worry too much " and most of them cite Ippuku in SF , which generated quite a stir by serving chicken tartare . It 's legal in many countries for a restaurant to serve raw or undercooked food , provided that there is informed consent ( the customer is specifically informed or specifically orders that their food be undercooked ) . However , legal is a very long way from safe , especially when we 're talking about raw meat . Steak tartare is more acceptable because , for some reason , <URL> and the incidence of E.coli is <URL> at only 0.26 % . Raw beef is n't totally safe but most healthy people who eat it will not have complications afterward . So , to summarize : Raw chicken : ~ 20 % salmonella ( depending on source ) , ~ 60 % campylobacter ( any source ) Raw beef : Less than 0.1 % e.coli , ~ 2 % campylobacter ( any source ) Conclusion : If you eat raw beef ( steak tartare ) , you 're a risk-taker . If you eat raw chicken , you have a death wish . Just say no . At an absolute minimum , please do n't serve this to your dinner guests with assurances that it will be safe . What you do to your own body is your decision to make , but it would be grossly irresponsible to serve anything made with raw chicken to anyone who has n't been made fully aware of the risks . P.S. . Some of this data may be U.S. specific , but the problem is worldwide . For example : A <URL> showed a 36.7 % contamination rate for salmonella and 84.3 % for campylobacter , ( thanks TFD ! ) . A <URL> showed a 37.5 % incidence rate for salmonella and 75 % for campylobacter . So do n't expect to be safer simply because you do n't live in the U.S. . If you 're planning on doing this , you should check what your country 's regulations and current statistics are regarding salmonella , campylobacter , C. perfringens , and listeria , for farms and plants producing chicken meat . That is your actual risk . Buying " organic " might help , or might not , since organic is currently not a true legal or regulatory category in most regions .
end question
start question
What do you need for Chinese style Hotpot at home ?
You will need the following : A pot that 's about 12 " in diameter and 4 inches deep Put the broth in the pot , you can buy broth packages usually at Chinese/Asian supermarket . You just need to mix it with water and boil . Food you want to cook in the pot . Sliced beef is my favourite , but mussels , beef balls , fish balls , shrimps , veggies , etc. . You will need chopsticks , hot pot scoop that looks like the following , so you can scoop the cooked food to your own plate : <URL> To add flavour , usually you dip the cooked food in soya sauce , but a mixture of raw egg , soya sauce and satay sauce is used as the deep . You can even add chopped chili , green onions and chili oil to it . Just make the broth . Cook the food you like as you eat . That 's it !
It has been said : Better safe than sorry . You have n't measured the absolute sugar or acidity levels . Freezing it will do no harm . -- <URL> <URL> I 'm definitely not an expert with baking , but I 've worked with fruits in other contexts . The only time I would be worried about freezing would be if I added oil , like for a marinade or such . In your context I think freezing is fine , and sounds like it would be a convenient way to make larger batches to reuse throughout the year . PS : That puree sounds awesome , I might have to try that to marinate some chicken or pork chops !
Traditional cornichons are pickled with tarragon , not dill . I love that flavor !
There are a few tools you should have that are out of the ordinary in a typical American kitchen : <URL> - It 's really the only way to make maki ( rolls ) . Pro tip : when you use it , put it inside of a large zip-loc bag . This helps prevent the rice sticking to the mat . <URL> - This is essential in helping the rice turn out properly . The one I linked includes a free mat . I do n't own this particular brand ; I bought mine from an asian grocery store near me for like $ 30 , it came with a paddle . If you do n't want to commit to this large uni-tasker then I recommend using an equally large shallow-ish plastic bowl/dish . The sushi chef that taught me said plastic was OK , but to avoid glass or metal . <URL> - A quality rice cooker makes life amazingly easier . I own the one linked and it is amazing . I use it for cooking all of my rice . The quality of Zojirushi is simply unsurpassed and it quickly pays for itself . The single most important thing is a very sharp knife . It makes cutting the maki SO much easier . I ca n't stress this enough . A chef 's knife is just fine , but it should be well cared for and very sharp . For beginners <URL> is by far the easiest to make . You simply shape a small amount of rice in the palm of your hand and slap a piece of fish or other seafood on top of it . Cutting the fish for nigiri is an artform and can not be adequately conveyed here , but if you just hack out a thin piece of the right size it will taste fine . Tuna and salmon are relatively cheap cuts to use for this . For maki I suggest starting with spicy tuna rolls and California rolls . All you need for a California roll is : avocado , cucumber , and imitation crab meat . For spicy tuna mix you need : tuna , <URL> , and <URL> ( or <URL> ) . You may also want some <URL> and/or <URL> roe for the outside of your rolls .
The pie crust is ready to use . There is nothing in a graham cracker crust that requires baking , although a little toasting gives some color and deeper flavor . If you are putting in a filling that will not be baked ( a refrigerator pie ) , you might choose to " blind bake " ( bake without filling ) the crust for a few minutes to give it more color and flavor , but it is not required . If your filling will require baking , there is little reason to bake the crust separately .
I found <URL> , image below . Also , youtube has <URL> . <URL> Click on the image for a slightly easier to read version , but <URL> version is much clearer .
This scum is made from proteins . Meat contains muscle fibers ( the proteins actin and myosin ) as well as some loose proteins swimming in the fluids within the meat ( the cell plasma ) . When you cook meat , the protein-rich fluids are expelled ( that 's why overcooking makes meat dry ) . Under hot temperature , the proteins in the fluid coagulate , making it firm . It is especially noticeable in your burger , because there is more liquid flowing out quickly from your cut-up meat , but it also happens with whole pieces of meat , albeit more slowly . It is also very noticeable when cooking stock , because the stock is cooked for a long time and the liquid has time to come out from the meat . The coagulated liquid can form a single piece ( as it does with steak on a slightly oiled pan ) , but when it flows into water or oil , it mixes with it without dissolving , creating small loose particles . They float to the top , creating the frothy scum you describe . The process is perfectly natural , you 're not doing anything wrong . You can in fact eat the scum without any ill effects , but the taste is n't that great . So it is better to fish it out from the oil ( or water when making stock ) . In dry cooking ( aforementioned steak ) it is exactly this stuff ( after getting nicely browned on the hot pan ) which makes gravy taste so well , together with the dripped fat .
350F is the magic temp . Just about every casserole cooks at 350 , and you cook it until it starts being bubbly which will probably between 30 minutes and an hour ( in this case , you should check to make sure it 's hot in the center as well , since you 're starting from frozen ) . I 'd cover it early , and then uncover it near the end so the top wo n't get dry .
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
The discolored surface is a product of oxidation , the same thing that happens when you leave apple slices in the open air . Oxigen is a highly reactive molecule and it binds to anything it can find , in this case your steak . It is not rotten or unsafe to eat in any way , it just has an unpleasant color/texture when raw . Meat packaging is often filled with carbon dioxide , and since the oxygen is already binded to carbon it no longer reacts with the steak . The side effect of this is that your steak could have gone bad , but it still looks good . The pad just collects any fluid that might drip off the steak , again for aesthetic purposes . I 'd suggest to remove the wax paper and shrinkwrap it , this will prevent it from oxidizing .
<URL> answered this question . Here are some quotes from the webpage . According to the USDA : Round chicken/turkey : 165 ° F / 74 ° C Whole chicken/turkey : 180 ° F / 82 ° C Poultry breasts , roasts : 170 ° F / 77 ° C Additionally , the USDA says the thighs and wings of poultry should be cooked " until the juices run clear . " Although the following temperatures will make the meat safe to eat , you might want to drop the temperature by 3-5 ° C for more flavor .
<URL> . For both Camembert and Brie . Next time do n't buy it ...
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
Not much is out there . Food-grade silicone oil ( dimethylpolysiloxane , for the chemists out there ) is routinely used in medical and food-prep devices , and it has been approved by the US FDA Office of Food Additive Safety for use as a direct additive in diverse foods , like milk , dry gelatin dessert mix , canned pineapple juice , and even salt . Of course , we 're talking about minuscule amounts , in the range of 100 ppm ; at high concentrations , it is a skin and eye irritant . So what level is safe ? We ca n't assume that the FDA ever tested it , as the Office of Food Additive Safety is woefully underfunded . An informal literature search yielded me only a handful of scientific articles looking at silicone oil in frying . The most promising was by Bertrand Matthaus , Norbert Haase , and Klaus Vossman , " Factors affecting the concentration of acrylamide during deep fat frying of potatoes , " Eur . J. Of Lipid Sci . &amp; Tech. , V. 106 ( 11 ) , pp. 793-801 ( Nov 2004 ) ( fig. 3 specifically measures acrylamide concentration as a function of the amount of silicone oil ) . Unfortunately , I do n't have a subscription , so I ca n't tell what the bottom line was . Myself , I do n't see the benefit of using it at home .
When you cut any food you expose the cut surface to oxygen , which causes chemical changes due to oxidation . You also expose the cut surface to microbes and organisms which break down food . Both of these will impact the quality of cut meat or fish , so yes a filet cut from a whole fish just before cooking would be fresher and better quality than one cut some time before . The effect is not great , however . If you had a whole fish and cut one filet from it the day before , then cut the other filet just before cooking both identically I doubt you would be able to tell any difference between the two . To me the reasons for buying a whole fish as opposed to filets is cost and choice . A whole fish is easier to judge for quality than a filet , you can see whether the eyes are cloudy or clear , for instance . Buying a whole fish is cheaper than buying the filets off of it because it 's much less work for the seller , so you can save some cash doing it yourself . However , fileting a fish is not that easy . It 's perfectly do-able at home and there 's loads of how-to videos but it 's still pretty involved and hard to do that well without lots of practice . It 's also messy time consuming , so when you buy filets it 's for the convenience of not having to do it yourself . The important thing is to make sure it 's fresh whether it 's whole or already prepped .
This is absolutely fine , especially if the eggs are pasteurised . I 've seen plenty of recipes that have raw egg in them that say it ; s fine to freeze them . You can even freeze eggs ( that have been mixed up a little ) for up to three months . So yes , I 'd say freeze it as soon as possible . Also , if you were concerned about freezing the quinoa that will fine as well ( a lot of people do n't know you can store grains in the freezer ) . Enjoy !
If your jam has at least 1:1 ratio ( 1 kg of sugar per kg of fruit ) or more , you do not have to can it . Then it is so overwhelmingly sweet that bacteria can not live in it . If the jam has less sugar ( 1:2 are popular , 1:3 are found sometimes ) , then you have to either can it , or keep it in the fridge and consume it within a few days , similar to any other cooked food . Else , you are colonizing bacteria in your jam , and at some point , some of them will happen to be pathogenic and cause some unpleasant disease in whoever eats the jam . Canning is a process in which the jam is closed against any new bacteria ( that 's why you have to close the jar hermetically ) and then heated enough that most old bacteria are killed . After canning , you can keep the closed jars at room temperature without any new bacteria developing .
I believe you 're thinking of " mignardises . " This is what they call it on the french laundry menu , and others . Another possibility is " Petit Fours " , which are small pastries typically served at the end of a meal . I believe there is some overlap in the use of the two terms .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
Doughs are docked to keep them from blowing up with steam while they bake . Thus - you only do it in applications that you do n't want blown up - like blind pie crusts . Puff pastry applications , for example , you usually do want to blow up so you will get a lot of light layers . If you are baking a pastry with a filling then the filling will keep this from happening . If you are baking blind , even with pie weights , you should dock because the weights might not weight evenly and you might still get a bubble .
end question
start question
What does adding dark rum give to a fajita stir-fry ?
In the Caribbean and other Rum producing areas , you find Rum in all sorts of recipes It is sometimes an unusual flavour pairing , but not necessarily bad . In savoury cooking it adds a semi-burnt sweetness , more like toffee or butterscotch than straight Rum Caribbean and Mexican cooking is well blended and harmonious with many common ingredients ( chilli , coriander , avocado etc. ) Considering the popularity of spicy jerk meat and Rum , the Rum Fajitas would be an interesting experiment
You can learn a lot from the rind of a cheese . <URL> There are three types of rind : Bloomy , washed , and natural . While I do n't think it is technically a rind I would also list waxed as a category . Bloomy rinds are formed when molds and such that grew during the cheese aging are smashed flat . Usually such cheeses will have unique textures because of the action of the mold . Think of the creaminess of brie as an example . The rind is edible if it is in good condition . Washed - the cheese is wiped with vinegar or similar while it ages . Natural - The top layer of the cheese is allowed to dry as the cheese ages . Parmesan is a good example of this . Waxed - Wax is applied to inhibit drying and mold growth . It is common with many semi firm to firm cheeses and does n't tell you much except the favorite color of the cheese marketing people . Cheddar is almost always waxed . Some cheeses do n't have a rind at all - this generally means that they were n't aged . Cream cheese , queso fresco are examples . Mozarella and feta are both brined and so do n't have rinds . Of course - it is a good thing when you can see any rind at all as odds are good that the cheese was n't mass produced for an undiscriminating clientele .
While many bread and pastry products do depend critically on the formation and management of gluten from wheat flours , this is not universally true . Some types of pastry have structure dependent more on the starch networks which is the other major component of wheat flours ; the texture and properties of these pastries is often dependent on the gross mechanical manipulation of the structures , depending on how the product is manipulated . American style pie crust is a case in point . Flaky pie crust is generally manipulated in a manner which minimizes gluten production : low hydration , resting periods , and minimal mechanical manipulation . The structure and flakiness emerges because the dough is essentially a series of butter flakes or bits , coated in starch . When baked , the starches gelate and steam from the dough pushes the butter pockets apart before the butter is fully melted and integrates into the dough structure . This is not dependent on gluten formation . Taking <URL> as typical , it appears that pasta frola has more in common with flaky pie crust than it does with bread or puff pastry , where gluten formation is key . The egg in the dough will contribute mostly water ( eggs are <URL> ) . The remainder is primarily proteins ( from the albumen in the egg white , and fats from the yolk ) . This will somewhat tenderize the final pastry , and contribute an eggy flavor . It certainly does interfere with gluten formation , helping prevent a tough outcome , except in this application , gluten formation simply is not key . It will also contribute to the final color , both from the yellow pigments in the yolk , and by slightly promoting browning .
The boiling point of most cooking oils is much higher than their smoke points . The boiling point of olive oil , for example , is around 300 ° C ( 572 ° F ) , which is hotter than the temperature of a pan on a typical residential range/cooktop . With that said , alcohols and esters which make up the flavor and fragrance of the oil will have lower boiling points and will therefore evaporate . That should not significantly alter the nutritional content of the oil . Furthermore , much of the perceived loss of oil is likely due to a combination of absorption of the oil into the items being fried , and also due to splatter . The latter can not be easily quantified due to its connection with the cooking vessel and the technique of the cook .
The rest period hydrates the starches in flour , giving the dough a firmer and more workable texture ( there is some very minor gluten development , but its mostly the expansion of the starch bundles with water ) . In many cookies , the flavors will also mature and improve , especially with cocoa in the recipe . In many recipes , the cooling from refrigeration is itself part of the point -- doughs may be easier to roll and cut when they are cool due to chilling of the fat . Most dietary fats are waxy , which means they do n't have a single set freezing/melting point , but rather get more viscous or eventually firmer then hard as temperature drops . For example , linzer cookie dough is very frangible , and the chilling and hydration make rolling and cutting much easier . Generally , most of this affect is going to happen in the first 8 hours or so . The overnight thing is simply for convenience in most cases . In fact , 4 hours is often enough , although obviously not in your case . If the major effect is chilling in your recipe , by flattening the dough to a disk , or lengthening it to a log ( thus increasing surface area ) compared to a ball , it will chill more rapidly . You mentioned this is a high fat recipe -- if that fat is butter ( as it so often is with cookies ) , that may help .
Yes ! Cooking with extreme heat is the killer of nutrients in vegetables . Therefore in traditional stir frying , timing is important . The goal is to coat all the vegetables with oil and searing their outer surface and not allowing the heat to transfer into the core of the vegetables . I personally do not like to cook with that kind of a heat , it is just too violent . Instead , I let the vegetable to stay in room temperature and cook them with medium heat , in a regular non-stick pan . However , I stop cooking them while they are still firm , lightly golden and vibrant .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
The other answers touch on the fact that its the release of water from the turkey that interacts with the oil , causes the oil to overflow , and then ignite the burner . Generally , this happens pretty shortly after you put the turkey in ( due do any moisture on the outside of the bird ) . To do it safely do n't bank on the fact that you 've removed all the water - do two additional things : Do it outside . In the event something bad happens , better to lose some grass on the lawn than your house . If you do n't have space outside , you can always go to a public park or such . It may seem like a pain but turkey frying should not be done inside . There 's one absolutely surefire way to ensure than you do n't catch the burner on fire by accident . Do n't have it on ! Prep your turkey . Have it dry on the outside and completely thawed . Heat your oil outside . Turn the burner off Lower the turkey into the hot oil Wait 1-2 minutes or so , most of the initial contact between water and oil should over by now . Turn the burner back on and cook the turkey . Also make sure the burner is off while taking the turkey out , just to prevent any spills from becoming terrible . @ChrisWalker , below in the comments , also provides a method for making sure you do n't put too much oil in the pot and thus cause a spill over .
I assume you are referring to standard , grocery store , cavendish bananas - They have a ton of water and sugar and have a very delicate texture . This makes them easily disintegrate and get gummy instead of crisp . The key is to deep fry them at a fairly high heat until they are dark and crisp . It also helps to use greener bananas that will hold together better . Butter is not well suited to this because of the necessary oil depth and high heat . Not only would it take a fair bit of butter but the butter would start to burn . Even clarified butter would n't be ideal . Vegetable oil or shortening would be the way to go . Additional notes : To make frying them easier bananas are often coated in something starchy - like a tempura batter . Recipes abound and they are , in my opinion , much better than frying the bananas on their own . <URL> Plantains are more often fried because they are much more starchy than Cavendish bananas . Plaintains actually become sweeter when fried .
Yes . If you would n't drink it , do n't cook with it . Whatever it tastes like out of the bottle , it will add that to the dish . Cook with a wine you might pair with the dish ( light wines for seafood , chicken ; heavier wines for meats and stews ) . Do n't use a fruity wine unless you want your dish to have some fruit notes . Do n't use a very dry wine if you 're making a sweeter dish .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
The key to this is really high heat and pan-fry in a single layer , very quickly . The goal is to get that nice brown caramelized surface and barely cook the interior and then get it out of the pan before it starts to seep water . Also , wait to season with salt until it comes out of the pan so it does n't draw out the water prematurely .
Short answer : yes , milk chocolate differs from chocolate by the milk its manufacture . Real chocolate ( as opposed to many other confections ) is made from chocolate liquer , which despite the name , is not alchoholic , or even liquid at room temperature . The fruit of the <URL> tree contains seeds , known as beans . The harvested fruits are allowed to ferment , bringing many flavor and chemical changes to the beans , as well as removing the pulpy fruit . The beans are then husked for the seeds inside , the nibs . The nibs are the first true chocolate product , although they are not sweet . The nibs are roasted , and then ground . This is chocolate liquer , a solid colloid of cocoa fat and solid particles . It would be solid at room temperature , but the grinding process melts it . The cocoa liquer can be pressed to separate out the cocoa butter ( as for use in the cosmetics industry ) , leaving cocoa powder , but that is not the point of your question . Instead , to manufacture chocolate , the liquer is <URL> , a mechanical process that makes the suspended particles much smaller , part of what gives chocolate its smooth mouthfeel . Various products can be made from chocolate liquer , or cocoa butter , including : baking chocolate - essentially , just chocolate liquer , hardened and tempereded . May or may not be fully conched , so may not be as smooth as chocolate intended for eating . chocolate or dark chocolate - Chocolate liquer , possibly extra cocoa butter , and sugar . Minor optional ingredients often included are vanilla or other flavorings , and lecithen , an emulsifier . milk chocolate - Same as dark chocolate , with the addition of condensed milk or milk solids , depending on whether it is made via the Swiss method or the Hershey method white chocolate - cocoa butter , plus sugar and other flavorings chocolate chips - Another form of chocolate in a particular shape . Many manufacturers do n't make these from true chocolate , but rather substitute another fat which does n't melt as easily as cocoa butter , for economy , and so the chips hold their shape in the oven chocolate bunny - Chocolate molded into the shape of a bunny , then tempered and cooled German 's chocolate - A brand name of quite sweet dark chocolate Chocolate labels which list " cocoa percentage " are saying what proportion of the chocolate is cocoa liquer or additional cocoa butter or cocoa solids -- that is , stuff from nibs , as opposed to sugar or other flavorings . The cocoa percentage for milk chocolate tends to be much lower than that of dark chocolates , although not every milk chocolate has a lower percentage than every dark chocolate . See <URL> for information on tempering chocolate , which gives its snappy mouthfeel . Edit : On dairy products in dark chocolate : I was very surprised at Lemontwist 's comment , so I did some googling and found this <URL> : A good quality dark or semi-sweet chocolate will only have sweetener / sugar in some form added , and may also include a touch of soy lecithin as an emulsifier . These brands are milk-free by ingredients , but keep in mind that most brands of chocolate are made on shared equipment . That is , an inherently milk-free dark chocolate may be made on the same equipment as milk chocolate . See below for my note on cross-contamination issues . The complications arrive as some brands of dark and semi-sweet chocolate do include milk ingredients for a " smoother " end result . This is particularly true in mainstream brands like Hershey 's . Some ways that you may see milk listed in the ingredients include milk solids , milk , milk powder , whey , butter oil or butterfat ( see the Ask Alisa post on butter oil ) , or even casein . If milk is in the ingredients , it should be listed in a clearly identifiable manner per the labeling laws , but still , use caution . This is still in line with the information I provided , as I did mention " other flavorings " in dark chocolate , and it is not a universal or even common practice as far as I know . For people with strong allergies , the cross-contamination issue may be more of an issue . Vegans would have more of an issue , as lecithen is a very common ingredient in chocolate of all types , and may be animal sourced . Vegans would specifically need to reseearch and obtain chocolates that meet that standard . Googling will find many such products , but I did not find an easy single reference list .
The real issue , I think , is that you want to add the egg whites immediately before service , as they will begin deflating once they are whipped and mixed in . So instead of holding the mix a certain period of time , instead you hold the mix until prior to service , and then fold in the whites , which should be freshly whipped .
No , you 're not crazy . You have good taste . The reason for drinking darker beer like stouts and porters is for the flavor . If they are over-chilled , you lose most of that flavor . Do n't obsess over it , but in general a lot of people serve dark beer too cold . That said , you should drink your beer at whatever temperature makes you happy . There is nothing wrong with a nice cold pilsner or Hefe-wizen on a hot day .
It does n't compare at all - broiling is the US term for what is called grilling in UK . The heat source is above the food . In the US , a " grill " is used to mean a " gas powered barbeque " , as the Brits would say . The heat source is below the food .
I have never tried it but when I googled wok burners ( thinking to find a standalone high-output gas hob ) , I found <URL> article about a wok ring called the " WokMon " on Serious Eats and had to post it here : A couple months ago I was approached by Glen Lee , an inventor who claimed to have an ingenious new device for cooking in a wok at home . Seemed to me that if it worked the way he promised , it would to revolutionize home wok cooking in the same way that the Baking Steel revolutionized home pizza-making . I played around with it a lot , measuring , tinkering , reporting a few issues ( it 's still in development phase and has kinks to work out -- luckily Glen has been extremely receptive to feedback ) , and generally cooking up a storm . I 'm happy to report that this thing solves a problem I 've been trying to work around for over a decade . It 's called the WokMon , and it 's like steroids for your gas burner , helping to concentrate your flames and , more importantly , put them under the center of your wok , where they 're supposed to be . It looks like it does exactly what you need but is way cheaper than buying a specialized heat source and does n't require more equipment . Unfortunately , they 're not quite in production yet , it seems , though you can <URL> . Here 's an action photo of the flame it produces off a standard gas stove : <URL>
It sounds like it was gassed to stay bright green and firm but the seeds are showing how old it actually is . The pith ( the whitish veins on the sides ) is also firm on a fresh pepper , if its limp probably due to age .
Sugar helps with moisture content and its mobility in baked goods . Every industrial sliced bread has sugar as a major ingredient . It is there to slow down staling . It 's not clear how it does it , but sugar seems to impede the modification of starch and the flow of moisture to gluten . Sugar also helps breads retain more moisture . This very obvious among breads , but it applies to cakes , which are breads with added fat and sugar .
It 's not so much the taste as the texture . If they have n't been sauted first , the onions stay relatively crunchy during the rest of the cooking . The same is true of the garlic , but you 'd usually have cut the garlic into much smaller pieces so it does n't take as long to soften up , hence kicking the onion off first and adding the garlic a bit later .
end question
start question
Is raffinose broken down into its component sugars when cooked ?
In most cooked foods , it will break down . Raffinose has a melting point of 80 ° C and decomposes at 118 ° C . So if you keep the food below 118 ° C , you will be OK . You can sweeten your tea with it , or use it in a custard ( the big sugar molecules will interfere somewhat with the setting of the custard , but I ca n't predict if the effect will be noticeable at all ) . Applications involving simmering water should be safe , if the solution consists of water mostly . However , if you use large amounts of raffinose ( e.g. you are trying to make a jam ) , the boiling point of the solution can be much higher than the boiling point of water . As for baking , the raffinose will definitely decompose in the outer layers of the baked good , but this could be a very small part of the whole . The core of a properly baked cake should stay much lower than 118 ° C. Small items like cookies will be more problematic . When making a substitution , you have to consider that in some recipes , sugar is more than just a sweetener . For example , I do n't know if you can cream butter with raffinose the way you can do it with table sugar , and without creaming , you ca n't make proper cookies . Another example would be pectin : high methoxyl pectin ( the one used for jams ) requires high sugar concentration for gelling , so you probably ca n't substitute raffinose there ( unless you heat it enough , because one of its decomposition products is sucrose ) . Another thing to consider before eating lots of raffinose is that it is indigestible for humans and gets degraded by gut bacteria in the intestines , producing large amounts of gas - it has the same effect as eating lots of beans , for exactly the same reason . The source for the boiling and decomposition point of raffinose is the <URL> .
<URL> has very good explanations about it . Let me sum of it up : The geometry of the wok is very important : better use of the surface area ability to shallow fry big items and deep fry small items with small amounts of oil . intense heat for low amount of fuel The temperature is also very important : caramelization ( or <URL> ) carbon steel , cast iron , stainless steel and others have different properties in terms of heat capacity and heat conduction .
I spoke with the farm that sold me the kohlrabi ; they have seen people make something akin to mashed rutabaga by boiling kohlrabi for ages and ages , so it gets about that soft . Note that mashed rutabaga is apparently still firmer than mashed potatoes , but obviously soft enough to mash into a pulp . For a stir-fry , they suggested a match-stick shape rather than medallions ; my second such stir-fry found them to have about the texture of halfway-cooked onions , soft enough not to crunch anymore but firm enough to hold their shape on a fork .
Usually that would mean potatoes that have been simmered to fork tender , but you could use potatoes that have been baked too . It 's faster to dice the potato before simmering , but for some things it actually tastes better ( tiny difference ) to simmer first , then dice . Be careful if you dice first , they will overcook and become waterlogged quickly . If the recipe does n't specify , you can use peeled or unpeeled potatoes . I almost always prefer scrubbed , unpeeled potatoes . Do n't forget to salt the water ! EDIT : One more little note . 1/4 inch dice is small for simmering potatoes . If you do it that way , get them out of the water just before they are completely tender , carry-over cooking will get them the rest of the way . You might also want to rinse them in cold water to stop the cooking .
Wooden blocks are ideal for knife storage because they keep the blades dry ( the wood absorbs some of the humidity in the air ) , preventing rusting . The motion of inserting and withdrawing blades over wood will not noticeably dull them , because you 're not actually cutting the wood or indeed even applying any pressure as you do so . A good tip is to use a good quality steel to sharpen your knives with just one or two passes on each side before each use . Wash them with hot water by hand , avoiding dishwashers unless you like replacing your knives annually , then return them to the block once they 're fully dried .
If your stock turns to jelly in the fridge , it means you did it right ! Simmering the bones breaks down the collagen and turns it into gelatin ; that 's the very essence of stock-making . The gelatin is exactly what you want from the stock ; at low temperatures it has a very jelly-like consistency , but at higher temperatures it melts and provides a very rich texture . The more you reduce the stock , the more gelatinous it will become , so if it turned out stiffer than you expected , it 's probably because you let a lot of water evaporate . Typically , when making stock , you use a very low simmer ; just a few bubbles per minute . Any more than that and your stock will reduce . But reducing is perfectly OK , and many cooks will reduce an entire pot of stock down to a few tablespoons ; it 's like bullion , only without all the salt and preservatives . Heavily-reduced stock is called glace de viande and is often used to give a sauce or dish a little bit of extra kick , imparting a powerful meat flavour . But you probably did n't reduce it that much . If you 're finding it to be too concentrated or gelatinous , even at higher temperatures , you can feel free to dilute it . For soups or sauces you can probably dilute it 1 for 1 , but taste as you go along just to make sure you 're not watering it down too much . When only the top layer of a stock solidifies in the refrigerator , it is probably fat , which you should skim off and discard ( or reserve ) . The rest is your actual stock , and in your case it sounds delicious . Also , since you mention vacuum-sealing - I prefer to use covered ice cube trays for freezing stock . That lets you portion it out much more easily than a big solid blob .
In most cooked foods , it will break down . Raffinose has a melting point of 80 ° C and decomposes at 118 ° C . So if you keep the food below 118 ° C , you will be OK . You can sweeten your tea with it , or use it in a custard ( the big sugar molecules will interfere somewhat with the setting of the custard , but I ca n't predict if the effect will be noticeable at all ) . Applications involving simmering water should be safe , if the solution consists of water mostly . However , if you use large amounts of raffinose ( e.g. you are trying to make a jam ) , the boiling point of the solution can be much higher than the boiling point of water . As for baking , the raffinose will definitely decompose in the outer layers of the baked good , but this could be a very small part of the whole . The core of a properly baked cake should stay much lower than 118 ° C. Small items like cookies will be more problematic . When making a substitution , you have to consider that in some recipes , sugar is more than just a sweetener . For example , I do n't know if you can cream butter with raffinose the way you can do it with table sugar , and without creaming , you ca n't make proper cookies . Another example would be pectin : high methoxyl pectin ( the one used for jams ) requires high sugar concentration for gelling , so you probably ca n't substitute raffinose there ( unless you heat it enough , because one of its decomposition products is sucrose ) . Another thing to consider before eating lots of raffinose is that it is indigestible for humans and gets degraded by gut bacteria in the intestines , producing large amounts of gas - it has the same effect as eating lots of beans , for exactly the same reason . The source for the boiling and decomposition point of raffinose is the <URL> .
There actually does n't seem to be a special word for this as a technique - as common as it is ( to add an egg to the top of a dish and use the runny yolk as sauce ) , it is usually just the dish name " topped with an egg " or " topped with a fried egg " . Sometimes the egg is fried , occasioanlly poached , sometimes it is cracked on top of the dish and cooked in the residual heat - the goal of having the yolk serve as sauce remains the same , though . Some dish variations specify the egg on top - in some south American countries , a steak topped with an egg is called a " <URL> " or riding steak . I have heard of pancakes topped with a fried egg being called a " texas one-eye " , though i ca n't find a citation just now . Pasta with a raw egg added , which is supposed to be cooked in the residual heat and make a sauce of the yolk - is pasta " <URL> " . Its a little funny , but as common as it is to find a dish with topped with an egg , so the yolk will double as sauce - it does n't seem to have a name more specific . ( And it is really common , all sorts of cultures have <URL> ) . You can say " topped with an egg " , or use ElendilTheTall or ESultanik 's suggestions for how to specify the soft-cooked nature of the fried egg , and people will probably understand you . Edit : with the help of some comments from Andrew Mattson , Relaxed , and Chuu , we now have a potential term : steak " Au Cheval " ( French ) or beef " a cavalo " ( south American ) means a steak with an egg on top . The words look similar-ish enough to seem related in word appearance and meaning , yet from two different countries - which translate the term to horse riding or horseback steak , meaning the egg is on top of the dish . So with that commonality , we might take the term " Au Cheval " and take it to mean when an egg is laid on top of , or " riding " the dish . As a term it wo n't be too well known right now , someone may not be understood if you just ask for a sandwich or veggie hash " au cheval " ... but if enough people see this definition , or start using it , it may become the official term for the cooking technique !
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
Bacon cooks to safe very quickly . Once it 's opaque it is safe to eat . Raw bacon is itself pretty low risk , provided it has been properly cured . Even if it was n't cooked through , you are unlikely to come to harm .
The reason to par-bake your pie shell is because it would not cook through in the same time that the filling does . So it depends on what type of filling you are going to use . For example , if you are using a traditional short crust with a cream ( custard ) filling , the custard will probably cook faster than the crust would , so you would want to par-bake the shell . On the other hand , for an apple pie with a deep layer of fruit , by the time the fruit is cooked through , the crust usually is too , so par baking is not required . In your specific example , you have not said what the filling is , that you are precooking . However , if it is essentially fully cooked , you could blind-bake your shells then just put them together to heat through for service . You would need to share more details to get more specific advise .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
In the general case , it is not possible . As you cook meat past about 165 F , all of the proteins will have denatured and contracted , squeezing out moisture . This is what makes well done meat tough and stringy or rubbery . This process can not really be reversed , although you can try to mask it with a sauce . In the specific case of certain cuts -- the ones famous for braises or barbecue , the " low and slow " cooking techniques -- there is some hope , but it is a thin one depending on what you have been doing . These cuts , the most active working parts of the animal such as the shoulders ( chuck for beef or butt for pork ) have a great deal of intramuscular fat , as well as connective tissue made of a protein called collagen . Over time , when cooked slowly at temperatures of about 180 F , the collagen in the meat will turn into gelatin , which has a silky , smooth mouth feel , and the fat will lubricate the meat . They still have their proteins irreversibly dentures and tightened , but the gelatin and fat provide a new kind of moisture and unctuousness that is highly prized . The cooking techniques for this ( braising , barbecuing , slow roasting ) are rarely employed for chops or steaks that you would do in the frying pan . They also simply do n't have the collagen or the fat to make it possible . That is why they are better off with the higher temperature , faster cooking methods , but should not be overcooked , as you have discovered to your dismay . Your best option is not to try to recover from this situation , which is very difficult to do , but rather to learn to prevent it : Get a good instant read thermometer to check the internal temperature of your steaks or chops Learn what the safe temperature is for that type of meat . For example , poultry and pork should both be cooked to at least 155 F ( and for poultry , many people have learned to like even more done meat ) The FDA recommends 165 F for ground meat ( which is quite well done ) Measure the temperature of your meat and learn to recognize when it is done Assess what level of risk you are willing to accept Over time , you will learn to recognize when cuts are done to your liking by how they feel when you poke them with your finger ( which is a pretty good indication of how done they are , based on how resilient they are ) , but the thermometer will be your guide until you build that experience . Still , this will require that you adjust your expectations of what completely cooked meat looks like . Pork may still be a touch rosy , for example .
They are not safe . An apple used in this manner is an aromatic , not to be eaten . I often use a combination of apple , cinnamon , rosemary and onion inside my bird . This stuff does not reach the necessary temperature to kill the little beasties that will hurt you . If it does , then you 'll have one dry bird .
Paneer can be used as is . Sometimes it is fried to extend shelf life . Cooks will also sometimes fry paneer until it is slightly brown and then put the fried cubes of paneer in hot water for a few minutes . This makes paneer very soft . If you do cook paneer , it will not melt , like most other cheese varieties , because it 's an acid-set cheese .
Add the water incrementally . It 's probably enough to add just a bit , stir , then add the rest , but you can break it up a bit more if that does n't work . A clump of powder or a lump of paste wo n't dissolve easily into water , but it 's easy enough to add a little water to it and thin it out . So the idea is to work your way up from powder to paste to thinner paste to liquid . This is a good idea for all kinds of things where you start with a powder or a thick paste , not just instant soup .
Before being cooked , vegetables are like a wall built from tightly filled water balloons . Each cell has is filled with water ( well , technically cytoplasm , but ... ) which is essentially incompressible . One of the components in the cell walls is hemi-cellulose , which dissolves into the water when the vegetable is cooked . This allows the individual cells to partially deflate , expressing water and making the overall vegetable wilt . Think a blown up beach ball . Although the wall is soft and flexible , the air holds it rigid . Of course , air can be compressed , so a beach ball can be squeezed ; but water for all practical purposes is not compressible , so there is no almost no give in the individual plant cells . Once the cell walls loose their integrity , however , it is like the beach balls that comprise the plant have sprung a leak . They loose their shape or rigor , and at the large scale you see wilting or softening . Note that the presence of acid in the cooking medium can inhibit the dissolving of the hemi-cellulose , and permitting vegetables to better maintain their shape . This is one reason why , for example , canned vegetables have acid added to the canning liquid ( another being that acidity above a certain threshold inhibits the growth of certain dangerous food born pathogens . )
<URL> has a vast amount of information on beer styles . To answer your specific question , an ale is top-fermenting whereas a lager is bottom-fermenting . Lagers are generally fermented at lower temperatures than ales . I believe that lambics would constitute a third category , since they are traditionally fermented by wild yeasts , but opinion may vary on this , I do n't know . There are dozens of styles of ales and lagers and a few different lambics , but the method of fermentation is the main distinguishing characteristic between the three types .
You can try a few things . Use just the zest from the peel , and then slice and remove the pith and use just the inside . Pre-boil the lemon peels , then add them to your main dish . Remove the lemons before the bitterness gets too strong ( i.e. when you tasted the dish the first time ) but while there 's still a strong taste . This works because the citrus oils ( which are a major primary flavor contributor ) are just in the top layer of the peels , while the acid is in the inside . The pith is just plain bitter .
I have the brand of juicer ( Champion ) mentioned by the OP in comments . It 's a rather unusual design that is n't used by most other companies . They are somewhat notorious for producing a lot of foam . I bought it perhaps 15 years ago , but rarely use it for this reason . ( It still has other uses other than juicing . ) Anyhow , the solution I found to this problem was simply to strain the juice through a fine-mesh sieve . It wo n't go quickly and will get clogged with the pulp , so you 'll need to a take a spoon or something and stir it around to force the juice through . It takes a long time , but it 's effective because the bubbles dissipate when they go through the sieve . Given the construction of these types of juicers , I would generally just place a bowl underneath and a large sieve in the bowl to catch the juice coming out . After finishing juicing , you can turn off the machine and then spend 5 minutes stirring and straining to get rid of the foam . I have seen others on the internet mention success using a French press to do a similar straining action to destroy the foam . I tried it once but it did n't seem to work as well ( perhaps the stirring action within the sieve also assists with the foam ) . Nevertheless , it still made an improvement .
end question
start question
gas range hack for greater power output : does it work ?
This seems nonsensical to try with your home stove . You are correct , the rate of gas output is directly controlled by the knobs . In a typical home stove , drilling holes will not increase the gas output . It would affect the gas to air ratio , but I doubt it would result in an increase of temperature , and more likely a decrease .
That is almost certainly a " best by " date , not an expiration date . <URL> calls the shelf life of uncooked white rice " indefinite " . Yes , you can cook and serve your rice assuming that it is free of contaminants .
It does n't compare at all - broiling is the US term for what is called grilling in UK . The heat source is above the food . In the US , a " grill " is used to mean a " gas powered barbeque " , as the Brits would say . The heat source is below the food .
I could not find any credible sources indicating that flax seeds ( also known as linseed ) loose significant nutritional benefits after been smashed , crushed or ground . This article from <URL> in fact indicates that since the seeds tend to pass undigested , it is better to grind them : Most nutrition experts recommend ground flaxseed because your body is better able to digest it . Whole flaxseed may pass through your intestine undigested , which means you wo n't get all the health benefits .
1 ) I do not think so , the technique was described in e.g. modernist cuisine , they suggest using a ISI siphone and if I can remember correctly does not describe any other tool . Any pressure chamber would work , if you have access to one :-) 2 ) I have something like <URL> which can be charged with both soda and cream charges , that is what I woudl suggest . ( mine is not ISI ) . Think both you show will work since both charges are the same . Charge with N2O ( cream charge ) . 3 ) For the infusion part , you want pressure , look for size of the device that suits your needs . The bigger , the more you can do at the same time , but will require more charges for same pressure .
I believe that the " clichéd image " you refer to is popular ( and cliché ) because of chili con carne 's long history of being cooked outdoors in big cauldrons or at least over an open flame . As any camper will tell you , iron is the traditional material of choice when cooking with fire . As for what actually happens - cast iron is a porous material , unlike stainless steel or aluminum . The seasoning in cast iron is essentially a layer of baked-in grease that fills those pores and over time absorbs the flavor of everything you cook in it . It absolutely does impart a characteristic flavour , but what that flavour is depends to no small degree on what 's been cooked in it before . If you do n't care properly for your cast iron , that flavour might very well be rancid fat . So whether or not the flavour you get with your chili makes it better , worse , or just different is largely a matter of personal taste and habits . As for the acidity : Yes , acids can react with the iron , but cast iron is fairly corrosion resistant . Cast iron is also used for pipes , so this is pretty well-documented by engineers ; you need <URL> to corrode cast iron to any significant degree . Pure tomato juice is not a strong acid ; it has a pH of <URL> , which is just at the threshold ; when you consider that this is being diluted with tomato purée , water , meat juices , and various other lower-acid substances , it 's evident that you 're well within normal tolerances and can cook chili and other tomato products for as long as you like . Also , the seasoning itself provides some measure of protection for higher-acid foods , since the acid has to penetrate the grease , and water is not good at penetrating fat - that 's why food rarely sticks to well-seasoned cast iron . Now this is not to say that the iron wo n't react at all , it just wo n't noticeably corrode or make your sauce/chili taste like metal . Consensus seems to be that you 'll end up with up to <URL> , which comes out to about 160 mg for the whole 3 quarts . That 's not good for you if you eat it all at once , but <URL> every day for a prolonged period of time , so unless you 're eating an entire quart/litre of chili or tomato sauce a day , it 's not going to be a health hazard . So do n't fill your cast iron pot with lemon juice or dump half a cup of vinegar in there - but do n't worry about a few tomatoes either . If anything , it just improves the nutritional content . As far as heat distribution is concerned , <URL> . It 's far more prone to hot spots than reasonably-priced aluminum - or copper-bonded stainless steel . What it does do is retain heat very well , so it 's excellent at maintaining just the right simmering temperature for something like chili , which you would otherwise need some fairly expensive stainless steel to achieve . But you have to be very careful of scorching when you cook chili in cast iron ; stir often . A few times I 've left my cast iron chili pot sitting around unattended for just a little too long and found some of the meat stuck to the bottom . Last but not least is the seasoning and the answer is no , you would n't season it any differently . As I alluded to above , the seasoning really does n't have much an effect when you 're cooking a sauce or stew as opposed to a piece of meat or something else that has a tendency to stick . The only function it really has here is to impart a tiny bit of flavour and insulate the iron from some of the acidity of the tomato juices , which is n't necessary anyway . All in all , I find cast iron to be very good for chili and other stews primarily because of its heat stability , but it 's no panacea , and if you 're only using the pot for chili then you wo n't get many of the benefits ( in particular the beautiful " black " seasoning that accumulates after hundreds of rounds of greasing and cooking ) . So by all means use your existing cast iron for chili and stews , but I would n't recommend for anybody to run out and buy a cast iron pot just for that purpose .
I had this exact same problem for years . And it was all about letting the dough relax . I 'd get beautiful crusts , but never EVER pass the windowpane test . I was so confused . Turns out , all I had to do was leave it alone for about 10 minutes , much less and I 'd still run into issues . The window pane test is intended to show that enough gluten has been formed that you can stretch the dough . It 's a completely non-exact test . It 's just to ballpark if there is ' enough ' gluten . By leaving it alone for 10 minutes or more , the gluten has relaxed and can be stretched to form the window pane . This relaxing is the same thing that you may need to do while forming your pizza . If you find that your pizza dough will stretch out some , and then pull back constantly - its good because you 've probably got enough gluten . Let it relax for several minutes and then pull it back - go too far and you 'll likely accidentally form a window pane ! Enough gluten means that you 've formed an efficent ' net ' of gluten that will trap gases from the yeast and also provide some ' chew ' . You 'll get better rise and your bread will have a better crumb . Yeast breads without much gluten development are often denser . When hand kneading , an <URL> will also help ( well , it always helps , just especially when you have to do the work manually ) . By giving the dough a short rest after initial mixing , you let the dough fully hydrate and some gluten will start to form on its own . When you come back to knead the dough , you should find the dough more workable and a little easier to get to the ' kneaded ' point . What 's going on with ' relaxing ' gluten ? Kneading forms gluten , but it often also tangles them up a bit . <URL> and will pull out into long strands easier .
Steel cut oats take a lot longer to cook than rolled or quick oats . It 's unlikely they will completely cook before the cookie is done . You could try it , but I 'd recommend presoaking them in hot water for an hour , or maybe even parboiling them for a few minutes . You 'd need to adjust your wet ingredients accordingly as well .
I 'd go for a more powerful one , in general , and I noticed that the higher powered disposals are sometimes quieter , which I really like . I really learned that paying the extra for good plumbing parts ( faucet , disposal ) through our plumber was worth it , since they can be fixed , unlike cheaper big box store stuff , and that there was a real difference in the higher quality disposal .
The majority of the alcohol evaporates during baking . McGee 's On Food and Cooking says ( pg 532 ) : In making beer and wine , the carbon dioxide escapes from the fermenting liquid , and alcohol accumulates . In making bread both carbon dioxide and alcohol are trapped by the dough , and both are expelled from the dough by the heat of baking . I also found <URL> , which states that some alcohol ( 0.04 to 1.9 % ) may remain . However , the report is from 1926 , so 1 . it may not be really representing modern day situation 2 . the data , methodology etc. is not reported : it looks more like an informal news than a real research article , so I can not critique on whether the results are realistic .
The most likely culprits are : Steeping too long : 1-3 minutes , depending on the type and grade of tea . Using water that is too hot or too cold : Again , this depends on the type and grade of tea . <URL> is an excellent resource for getting these factors right : On Steeping Time : Green tea does not require much time . Too long a steeping time will result in more bitterness and a less balanced flavor . We recommend experimenting with a range of 1 - 3 minutes . Japanese green teas generally taste best at 1 - 2 minutes while Chinese green teas seem to prefer 2 - 3 minutes ( the smaller leaves of Japanese teas will extract faster than the generally larger leaves of Chinese teas ) . Steeping time should be balanced with water temperature : the lower the temperature , the longer the tea can be steeped . On Temperature As a general guideline , green teas taste best when brewed at temperatures between 140 ° F - 185 ° F ( 60 ° C-85 ° C ) . The grade of the tea and the time of its harvest will also influence the appropriate steeping temperature . Green teas picked earlier in the spring will benefit from lower temperature brewing due to their overall higher levels of amino acids . ... The most accurate way is to use a thermometer to measure the temperature of the water in the kettle . One approach is to heat the water in your kettle to the desired temperature and then pour it into your teapot . Another approach is to heat the water to boiling and then let it cool down a bit before pouring into your teapot . <URL> for further background .
You can proof your yeast to see if its still alive : Heat approx . 1/2 cup ( 100ml ) of water to about 115 ° F ( 45 ° C ) . Add a tablespoon ( 10g ) or so of sugar , stir . Water should still be above 105 ° F ( 40 ° C ) . Add a teaspoon of yeast , stir . Within 5 minutes or so , the mixture should be thoroughly foamy . If its not thoroughly foamy , yeast is bad ( dead ) , dispose of it . ( Note : Metric conversions above are rounded , just like the imperial units . Do n't use these conversions for baking , but proofing yeast does n't need anything exact . )
You should have no problem refrigerating the dough . I have done it with chapatti dough , which is essentially the same thing , without a problem . It 's only flour , water and salt after all . You might find it a little hard to roll out straight from the fridge but nothing some brute force and ignorance ( or letting it warm up a little ) wo n't cure .
It may already be an implicit assumption , but I think that time to cook is probably not as important as how to cook . While the power setting does affect the time to cook , the importance of time is to control how hot the parts of the food get . As with all cooking , there is a need to control temperature . Running the microwave at less than full power allows time for the heat to be conducted from the hot parts to the cool parts . It is similar to searing vs. sauteeing . I think that the accuracy of most microwave oven 's power settings are good enough ( my own testing shows about 10 % ) . I would be more concerned about how I wanted the item cooked . Some examples : When I want to reheat things like a thick soup , I run the microwave at full power for a short period of time , stir , and run the microwave again . Stirring the concoction distributes the heat faster than the conduction process . When I want to defrost frozen foods ( think meat ) , I use the lowest power setting . This prevents the edges of the food from getting cooked .
Buttermilk has a delicious flavor that is not at all approximated by lemon juice . It 's true that lemon or vinegar with milk will clabber it a little and provide the acid that the recipe needs but the flavor will be distinctly lacking . Get some buttermilk . It 's inexpensive and has a longer shelf life than normal milk . It is also exceptionally easy to make . If you make it a standard part of your pantry you will find yourself enjoying life more ( or at least pancakes . )
Yes , preheating warns up the entire interior of the oven which is important for keeping the air hot such as when you open the door . It helps the oven bounce back to full heat much sooner . If you do n't preheat , it will take several minutes before the oven reaches proper cooking temps , and interfere with even heating . If you want to see the difference most dramatically , bake some chocolate chips . First without any preheating and then when those are supposed the be done , do another batch and bake them for the same amount of time . If you are baking something for an hour or more , it may not make much difference , but shorter baking times can be dramatically affected .
Forever . Honey , comb present or otherwise , does not go bad . It even acts as a preservative . The date you are seeing is solely referring to the " quality " degradation . Completely edible honey has been found in 3,000 year old Egyptian tombs .
It 's fine as written . Combining vinegar with baking soda ( or any acid with any base ) is usually done in baking to produce gas , which can lighten the finished product . This is an icing , which is applied after the baking process ; it 's not set to capture air bubbles , so any effect would be largely temporary and more easily produced through beating . The vinegar here is intended to mimic the tangy flavor of real cream cheese . The lemon juice has the same effect , but apple cider vinegar adds a different mix of acids , better matching the flavor of the real thing .
Microwave ovens by their nature heat unevenly . The actual microwave radiation produces wave patterns with more and less amplitude within the cooking chamber . ( From a physics standpoint , these are " standing waves " produced by internal wave reflections . ) This is sort of the equivalent of " hot spots " and " cold spots " in a pan . Most modern microwaves contain some sort of rotating plate or other moving part to mitigate this unevenness by keeping the food in motion ( and thus aligning different parts of the food with the " hot spots " ) . Over time , some parts of the food will also become very hot , and the heat from those portions will gradually distribute to the cooler portions of the food around them . The reason I bring all of this up is that the primary advantage to cooking at a " lower power setting " in a microwave ( whether it truly can change wattage or whether it merely cycles between 100 % power and off , as dpolitt 's answer notes ) is to allow time for those hotter portions of food to distribute their heat to the cooler portions during cooking . If you 're heating something that has easy heat circulation ( e.g. , boiling water or other thin liquids ) , it does n't much matter what setting you use , so use higher power for time efficiency . But in many foods using a lower setting can : Allow time for the food to heat more gradually and more evenly Prevent parts of the food from getting overcooked ( which could lead to sections being dried out or otherwise changed to an overcooked texture ) For longer cooking times , it may also allow the " cold spots " more time to " catch up " and spend more time at a cooking temperature , which may be desirable for texture ( e.g. , if the food has to soften ) or other reasons Sometimes prevent undesirable " behavior " of food in the microwave when overheated : e.g. , exploding or " popping " of some parts of the food , boiling over of some liquids , etc. . In general , I 'd say that there 's rarely much harm in using a lower cooking setting in a microwave , other than potentially wasting some energy . As long as you lengthen the cooking time to compensate and cook the food completely , a longer time is fine . So , that 's what I 'd recommend if you 're at all concerned about the power setting . The only time to avoid a lower power setting is generally in foods where longer cooking times would also be avoided in other cooking methods . For example , when steaming vegetables , a longer cooking time will often result in mushiness , which may be undesirable -- whether done in a pot on the stove or in a microwave on low power . ( Some cooking requires a minimum temperature to achieve normal results too , like frying . In that case , you might need to use a higher power setting . I do n't tend to use my microwave for such things , so I do n't have a lot of recommendations for that . ) All of that said , the primary reason to use a microwave over other cooking methods is generally speed . That 's why most people tend to just use full power on microwaves for the vast majority of tasks anyway . If you 're heating a food where the things listed above are unlikely to pose a major problem , using higher power may be fine . Lastly , in many foods interrupting cooking by periodic stirring is actually more effective to distribute heat evenly than a longer microwave time at lower power . Thus , I mostly tend to use a lower power setting myself only in foods that ca n't be stirred or where I do n't want to be bothered to take the food out and stir periodically over a longer cooking time .
Freezing juice will definitely not harm the juice itself , but it might harm your container if you 're not careful . The juice can expand quite a bit during the freezing process , so make sure that your container is n't completely full before you freeze it . If the juice is already in a container ( i.e. you bought it ) then keep in mind that the container might not be designed for freezing and could explode at freezing temperatures due to the expanding volume . If you 're not sure , you might be better off transferring them to some large freezer bags . I should also mention that freezing will only slow down the enzymatic activity that degrades fruit ( and fruit juice ) over time , not stop it completely . Most fruit juice has been boiled to inactivate the enzymes , but if yours has n't , then you might notice ( bad ) changes in the colour and taste over time . If you plan to consume it within a few weeks , or if the juice already has various preservatives , then do n't worry about it , but if it 's very fresh juice and this is for long-term storage , then you might want to briefly boil it before storing if you 're not sure about its history . Keep in mind that the above will itself alter the taste , so if you plan to do it , test it on a small amount first to be sure that you can live with the " blanched " taste .
end question
start question
What are the categories of fish ?
Oh yes . Different people use different categories , no one system is canon , but this bit from <URL> is helpful ; I would n't hesitate to substitute within these categories . Dark and oil rich : anchovies , bluefin tuna , grey mullet , herring , mackerel ( Atlantic , Boston , or King ) , Salmon , farmed or King ( Chinook ) , sardines , skipjack tuna White , lean , and firm : Alaska pollock , catfish , grouper , haddock , Pacific cod , Pacific halibut , Pacific rockfish , Pacific sand dab &amp; sole , striped bass ( wild and hybrid ) , swordfish Medium color and oil rich : amberjack , Arctic char , Coho salmon , Hawaiian kampachi , mahimahi , paddlefish , pompano , Sockeye Salmon , wahoo , yellowfin tuna White , lean , and flaky : Atlantic croaker , black sea bass , branzino , flounder , rainbow smelt , red snapper , tilapia , rainbow trout , weakfish ( sea trout ) , whiting White , firm , and oil rich : Atlantic shad , albacore tuna , California white sea bass , Chilean sea bass , cobia , lake trout , lake whitefish , Pacific escolar , Pacific sablefish , white sturgeon You mention that you have successfully substituted halibut or tilapia for cod . This list puts tilapia in a different category than the other two . That illustrates that fish species substitution is a fuzzy thing , and a cook should n't feel bound by any list . Even within categories , any change in the choice of fish is going to change the final taste of the dish , either slightly or dramatically . That is n't necessarily a bad thing , in fact it can be a very good thing . Just as an aside , sustainability is a very good reason to substitute one species within a category for another . In the US these are to good sites to help choose a species : <URL> ; <URL> If anyone knows of good sites that provide good information about other parts of the world , please leave a comment . From leon , 2 good sites to help make sustainable choices in Australia : <URL> or <URL>
Actually , <URL> are often white , and may be purple or other colors . . In the US , what we get labeled as yams are actually sweet pototoes . ( They were similar to the african yams that people were used to , and the name stuck , sort of like how ' pepper ' is used for chilies , but they 're not even close to the same thing . ) update A <URL>
Naan traditionally is plain flat bread made using <URL> , Yeast , salt and water . Its cooked in tandoor . Salt could be optional if you are having naan with a curry . ( Cause curry usually has salt and the bread might not need it ) . Variations like milk or yogurt is used instead of water to make dough soft and fluffy . This would change the texture and flavor of the bread . It is possible to use baking powder instead of yeast , because they both act as a leavening agent . Do n't use them together . IMHO eggs are not part of the traditional naan ingredients .
Historically , these grades were established before white cane sugar became inexpensive and common , so the " best " maple syrup was the least strong , or Grade A . Now we seek out that maple flavor on corn flapjacks or waffles , so the " best " maple syrup is Grade B. I find that the best pancakes are made with 2/3 cornmeal to 1/3 whole wheat or buckwheat flour ( or any wheat flour , really ) rather than just pancake mix . The cornmeal makes them crisp . And Grade B maple syrup , of course .
I did a little bit of digging on the topic and found this TapTrip blog post : <URL> It also references a Cultura Bunka article in Spanish called <URL> To quote : During Muromachi Period ( 1336-1573 ) , japaneses [ sic ] used to transport the raw fish inside of baked rice to keep it conserved during long trips . Then , they started to eat this meal which was called sushi . [ ... ] But , making sushi was hard because took a long time and was a little expensive . Only during Edo Period ( 1603-1868 ) japaneses started to eat the raw fish freshly caught from the ocean with rice thanks to a sushiman called Hanaya Yohei . So it appears the short answer is indeed " just an accident of culture " ( or history ) so-to-speak . I will also quote from a short article <URL> * Raw fish dishses have been eaten since the Nara-era . At first , people ate raw fish pickled with vinegar as " Namasu " . Then , from the Muromachi-era , people started to eat " Sashimi " . And a bonus small bit on careful preparation of Sashimi : Sashimi is the main dish in the Japanese cuisine , and the cooks consider carefully the best way of cutting the fish , arranging the fish , shellfish and squid , give importance to the proper use of condiments , and the best combination of fish species when serving . The thickness of sashimi is determined according to the collagen ( main protein in the connective tissue ) content of the fish used . * [ Foods Food Ingredients J. Jpn. , Vol . 212 , No. 8 , 20 ] Keiko Hatae Wayo Women 's University 2-3-1 , Kohnodai , Ichikawa-shi , Chiba 272-8533 , Japan
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
I think the Albacore and Sea Bass are both great ideas . I 'm not sure about the Swordfish . It would be fine in the Crudo or Ceviche , but I do n't know how it would be as Sashimi . Fish that I 'd look at for this are : Yellowtail Halibut Tuna Sea Bass Scallops ( to think outside the " fish " box a little ) Salmon I 'm not sure if those are " in season " for you , and I ca n't find a good resource to determine that . I 'd suggest getting a list of 5-6 fish and heading to your local fishmonger / farmers market / or Whole Foods and ask what 's in season . Personally , I 'd do Tuna , Yellowtail , and Scallops if you wanted to do 3x3 .
The main goal with temperature is to kill anything nasty . Those nasties die based on temperature and exposure . Much like a human could live forever at 95 degrees , for a long while at 110 , shorter while at 150 , and would die instantly at 750 , so for all the stuff in Pork . 160 is considered a safe temperature because at 160 , everything dies instantly . The FDA has a chart for all this , <URL> . You 'll see that even 120 degrees is safe IF you cook it for 21 hours ! I cook a lot of sous vide , so these temperatures and times are easy to get and be precise about . The thing you need to be careful about is that the time table shows the amount of time that the whole piece of meat needs to be at a given temperature , so make sure you heat it through before you start counting . I 'll regularly do pork chops in the 135 range , and it 's lovely and moist without the stringy overcooked texture you get when well done .
Both the Santoku and French knives will work for the same types of things , so a lot of it comes down to preference . Santoku knives are lighter , so this can lead to less hand strain and quicker cutting . One thing that the Santoku are very good at is very thin slicing of vegetables , for two reasons : first , as you point out , you do not use a rocking motion , but rather chop down in one motion , which with practice can be quicker and more efficient . Second , Santoku knives usually have a much thinner blade angle ( around 15 degrees vs 30-40 degrees on a French knife ) . This is because one side of a Santoku is flat , and the other side is beveled ( like a chisel ) , so you only sharpen one side . To accommodate this thin blade the Santoku knives will be made with a harder steel , which helps maintain blade sharpness , but may increase the propensity for chipping if misused , and also makes them harder to sharpen . Still , personal preference dictates which knife to use . Many people prefer the Gyuto style of knife , which ( roughly speaking ) combines features of both Santoku knifes and French knives . They are made of a hardened steel , are sharpened on both sides , but maintain edges around 22-26 degrees . The Gyutos , like the Santokus are fairly light . Gyutos also have a rounded belly but it is less pronounced than on a French knife . There is much more to be said , but basically the thing to do is get your hands on some knives and start experimenting -- see what you like !
Place on non-stick sprayed foil ; broil for ~ 4 minutes in oven with some source of moisture or a glaze over top ( ie , you might take salmon and add a soy/mustard glaze ) to protect hydration levels .
I had a friend that made Mussels using the piri piri sauce . I also think that it might be tasty if you use that sauce on a nice burger !
Kudos to your wife for giving it another shot ! Let me start with what I feel is the most important part of my answer : find a good fish monger and make friends . If the supermarket is the best you can find , so be it , but learn the name of the person behind the counter , ask about the fish , be interested . Ask what 's just in , ask what 's fresh . If the fish is frozen at sea , ask if you can get some from the freezer instead of the stock in the case that 's been thawed and sitting all day . Ask to touch and smell the fish . Look at the stock - do the whole fish have clear eyes ? Does it smell like a dumpster ? Getting the freshest , best fish will help you and your wife enjoy it more . <URL> on shopping for fish . Now , on to your bullet points . Fish should never smell or taste " fishy " . Fishy smelling fish is a sign of bad fish . I find that a lot of my friends who say they do n't like fish have had experiences with poorly handled or old fish . Fish must be fresh ( or frozen at sea and handled properly afterward ) to be good . I 've stopped ordering fish in restaurants unless it specializes in fish ( and I do n't mean Red Lobster ) or is well known for their freshness . That said , some fish is certainly more strongly flavored than others . I <URL> here with a few varieties of mildly flavored fish . I do agree that flaky , white-fleshed fish is generally the mildest . Flatfish , like sole or flounder tend to be consistently mild . Tilapia has become an extremely popular fish lately . However if you do find a good fish monger , talk to him about it and you should be able to find plenty of interesting venues : monkfish has been called the poor man 's lobster , and I had some arctic char the other night that knocked my socks off . As for why white fish tends to be less strongly flavored than meatier fishes , I ca n't really answer authoritatively . My guess would be that meatier fishes tend to be more oily and fatty , which equals more/stronger flavor .
A very long blade is only useful in specialty situations , such as cutting very thin slices from wide cuts like an entire top round , or a full sized ham where there is no bone to be negotiated around ( in the ham , the slice is only down through half , until the bone is reached ) . Otherwise , for more typical home carving purposes , extra length just gets in the way , especially for oddly shaped meats like an actual turkey . I find that a traditional chef 's knife or my santuko are the best tools for most home carving jobs -- and they are also useful for many other purposes . I have a 10 inch ( 25 cm ) granton ham slicer , but I never use it for carving : it is reserved for slicing layer cakes in half horizontally in one pass .
For escargots , land snails are used . Most common are the species Helix pomatia , Helix aspersa and Helix lucorum * . There are two restrictions : it should be edible ( problem solved if you work with one of those three ) and it should be large . Larger snails have more flesh to work with . You have to be a bit lucky for this . There 's quite some variation . I think - for the dish that you mean - the snails should still have their house as well . However , I would n't advice you to go into the ' wild ' and pick your own . Just buy them at the supermarket . It 's safer , since snails can have digested toxins that take some time to leave their bodies . The word " escargot " is French for " snail " . You can find different preparations for snails , they would be called " escargots à la ... " with ... being the name of the sauce or preparation . The standard ( at least here ) drops the last part , since it 's the basic preparation ( herb butter with garlic ) . There are other types of snails/slugs that are edible , for instance <URL> are also sold and eaten here , they live in the sea , not on land , but it 's a whole different preparation . * <URL>
I do n't remember the exact science behind the potatoes not turning to mush ... I know it was discussed on an episode of America 's Test Kitchen , and they even discussed the amount of vinegar and how it affected the window for cooking times . ( I want to say it was on an episode where they were making an Austrian potato salad ) ... and it 's not specifically vinegar , and not solely potatoes . Acids will stop quite a few items from softening when cooking . I know the list inclues onions ( pre-cook onions before adding acids if you want them to disolve into a sauce ) , potatoes , apples ... I 'm guessing there 's others . For potatoes and apples , most recipes claim it 's to slow down browning . You see it in potato salad , but not mashed potatoes . You 'll see it in apple pies , but not in applesauce ... because they 'll come out lumpy . Matt already mentioned three uses for vingear : as half of a chemical leavener tenderizing / marinades preservation / picking coagulation ( eg , when poaching eggs ) But also : stabalizing eggwhite foams ( might just be a variation of coagulation ? ) denaturing / " cooking " ( eg . in the case of ceviche ; a variation of marinating ? ) flavor ( might not be a ' science case ' ... but sour is one of the primary tastes ; especially helps to balance out fatty dishes ) cleaning / disinfection ( might not be a ' cooking ' use )
Mineral oil is your friend As you said , Ana , the biggest enemy of a clean -- and warp-free -- wood cutting board is moisture penetration . The first trick to fight this is to wipe down your cutting board fairly often with mineral oil or other food-safe wood treatment . This helps with cleaning as it prevents liquids and bacteria from penetrating into the wood . It also has the nice effect of helping to keep flavors from embedding and transferring to other foods . Scrape it . Scrape it good . The second trick is to use a sturdy steel scraper to clean the surface as you go , scraping out excess moisture after each round of cutting before it can penetrate too deeply into the wood . This is something you 'll especially want to do with an end-grain cutting block , which is much more absorbent than other grains . Soap &amp; water is ( mostly ) all you need When I 'm done , I usually wash with light soap &amp; hot water on the board , followed by a good hard scrape with the steel scraper , so I have a nice dry , fresh surface for the next use . And store that board on its edge , not flat ! This promotes even drying and prevents warping . It 's science The smart people at America 's Test Kitchen used science n ' stuff and found that <URL> at killing bacteria , though the USDA recommends an application of bleach dilute to really sanitize that bad boy . Maintained board = clean board Notable board maker , Boos , has a good list of <URL> , including these related to cleaning : Periodically ( once every 3-4 weeks , depending upon the use and household conditions ) , apply an even coat of Boos ® Mystery Oil and Boos Block ® Board Cream to all surfaces of your wood cutting board . The Boos ® Mystery Oil acts as a shampoo that contains oils and minerals that penetrates through the wood surface to increase its longevity . Next , you will want to use the Boos Block ® Board Cream , that acts as the conditioner , to seal the top coating of the wood surface . DO NOT allow moisture of any type to stand on the cutting board for long periods of time . Do n't let fresh , wet meats lay on the board longer than necessary . Brine , water and blood contain much moisture , which soaks into the wood , causing the cutting board to expand , the wood to soften , and affects the strength , of the glued joints . Use a good steel scraper or spatula several times a day , as necessary , to keep the cutting surface clean and sanitary . Scraping the surfaces will remove 75 % of the moisture . Do not use a steel brush on the cutting surface of your board . DO NOT cut fish or fowl on the work surface of your cutting board , unless you have thoroughly followed the instructions in step # 1 . The moisture barrier must be intact prior to cutting any type of fish , seafood , or fowl on the work surface of your cutting board . ALWAYS CLEAN THE CUTTING BOARD SURFACE THOROUGHLY AFTER CUTTING FISH OR FOWL ON THE WORK SURFACE . Sanitize cutting board by wiping all surfaces down with mild dish soap and water . Dry throughly . DO NOT wash your wood cutting board with harsh detergents of any type . DO NOT wash your butcher 's tools on your cutting board surface . DO NOT put Boos Block ® wood cutting boards into dishwasher . Happy chopping !
i have found that a lampe berger works well to eliminate strong scents after cooking ( http://www.lampeberger.us/ ) -- after all , they were originally invented to help reduce the odors in hospitals and mortuaries ! ( you can read about their history at wikipedia : <URL> ) . i use mine after a night of deep frying food to get that smell out . i 'm pretty certain it would work on fish just as well .
You can eat even shell . Ground shell is used in French <URL> to thicken the soup and make it more flavored .
Aha ! Found the answer myself ! <URL> includes the step " Garnish with toasted sesame seeds or fried salty mung beans . " -- I googled " fried salty mung beans " and found the picture below , which is exactly what I was looking for :
" Sushi grade " means that it is safe to prepare and eat raw . In order to do that , it must be frozen to kill any parasites . That means it either has to be : Frozen at -20 ° C ( -4 ° F ) for 7 days ; or Frozen at -35 ° C ( -31 ° F - " flash frozen " ) for 15 hours . There are n't any official regulations about the fish itself or its quality , and most sushi/sashimi distributors have much more stringent rules of their own beyond the freezing guarantee .
end question
start question
Is it possible to make breads using cake techniques ?
To extend what GdD said , the reason why yeast raised breads and quick breads are so different comes down to gluten development . Yeast raised breads have structure based on gluten , which is a protein created in wheat flours ( due to enzymatic action on other proteins in the flour ) over time in a moist environment , or when physically agitated . Gluten has a strong , elastic structure providing the toothsome bite typical of yeast raised breads . The techniques , which typically involve one or more of : Long , slow fermentation by yeast -- the physical raising of the dough not only leavens it , but also helps gluten development Kneading , to enhance quicker gluten formation So called autolysis , or allowing to set in cool conditions as a moist dough for slow gluten development without extra work from kneading The result is a strong gluten structure , trapping gas bubbles , giving the charactaristic texture of breads . Quick breads are the polar opposite . As a general class , they are intended to be tender and soft , not chewy and resilient . The " muffin method " used to create them intentionally minimizes gluten development by : Not using yeast to raise the dough Mixing a minimal amount to discourage gluten formation Baking immediately ( in most cases ) after the batter is combined , in order to mininize gluten development from sitting time in moist conditions . The result of course is a tender cake , bread , or muffin . Typical cake techniques such as the creaming method also control gluten development by : Pre-creaming the butter with sugar , and then adding the eggs prior to combining with flour . The fat/sugar phase then coats the flour particles minimizing their interaction , and discouraging gluten formation . Cake batters , like quick bread batters , are not usually held , minimizing time for passive gluten formation Each of these methods is tuned for the outcome desired , and they can not easily be swapped . That being said , there are quick breads which are less like the sweet cake like banana bread for example -- the most iconic is probably Irish soda bread , but this does not change the general fact that yeast raised breads are a very different beast due to the gluten development . Still , they are their own beast , and not like a yeast raised bread .
I would n't bake them in , for a start , as I would n't be confident of what the bootlaces would do in the oven . Thinking about it , a possible way of going about it is to ' thread ' the bootlaces through the cake before you ice it . Cut the cake in half ( vertically ) , get a big needle like a darning needle or something similar , and ( carefully ) thread a few laces through , cutting them off flush with the surface , then stick the cake back together with icing or jam and pipe on the outer icing . The tricky thing will be getting them to follow curvy paths . The other thing you could do is use said needle ( or perhaps a chopstick ) to poke little tunnels through the cake , then pipe red jam into them . This would perhaps give a nicer result - it might be a bit odd to be eating a slice of cake and then to suddenly be chewing a rubbery bootlace .
From my answer on another question ( that justkt linked in the comments ) : <URL> Arborio rice , the classic choice for risotto , contains roughly 19 to 21 percent amylose . However , that is not the only difference . The desirable " bite " in risotto is due to a defect in Arborio rice called chalk . During maturation , the starch structures at the grain 's core deform , making for a firm , toothy center when cooked . Sorry , but for the best risotto , you really need an appropriate rice .
I am afraid that it is quite hard to prepare it yourself . And you do n't start from phylo dough . Kataifi is not shredded , it is spun . You need a hot metal wheel for that . It is made from a batter which is thrown on the wheel , and because the wheel is spun , it bakes on the wheel in threads . You need not only the instruments ( this wheel ) , but also quite a bit of experience to throw it in even threads . Kataifi makers are a popular attraction on middle-eastern markets . If you ca n't visit one , you have to visit an ethnic grocery store to buy the prepared kataifi noodles .
Yes , you can do it without a press . Place a ball of dough between two layers of plastic wrap . Use at least twice the area of wrap that you think the final tortilla will be . Squish the ball flat with a pan , book , or your hand . Now use a rolling pin to roll the dough between the sheets of plastic . Make sure the thickness is even , and do n't get it too thin or it will break when you cook it . Bonus : you can store the uncooked tortillas in the plastic until using and they wo n't dry out .
You should be able to buy a pasta plate that will get you what you need . The link is not a recommendation , just am example of what you are looking for . <URL>
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Yes , the problem will be the vinegar . Vinegar is acidic and you 'll end up with mushy meat . 48 hours is almost certainly too long . For a vinegar base , I try not to push it over 8 hours and that 's only if really necessary . A few hours is typically fine . Right now , you 've got to consider how to save the meat . I 'd freeze the meat right now . Freeze the meat with the marinade ( which seems like such a waste for 40 ' ish hours , but better that than mushy steak ) . When ready to cook , take it out and let the marinade do its business as it thaws . I 'd thaw it in ziplock under running water ( quicker than the fridge ) and let it marinade a short time and go on the grill . If you let it sit in any unfrozen stage too long , you 'll get mushy steak with a vinegar marinade .
TL : DR answer - not really . The beaten egg whites are an integral component of the souffle , forming both the rising action of the mixture ( by capturing air within the protein network of the eggs ) and and the structure . The recipe you linked to is more of a cake than a souffle , even using the creaming method commonly seen in cake production . While other ingredients can capture air as well ( such as the gluten formation from flour in a cake or bread ) , they change the nature of this dish so much that it 's no longer recognizable as a souffle . Adding baking soda unfortunately wo n't help in this particular instance as the rise caused by this is due to the carbon dioxide gas released . The souffles have that part covered with the air bubbles released during baking - what they need is the structure to trap them in . I hope that helped to clarify !
Doing both is possible , but there is no point . For both , you need a <URL> , and this is a good contender for a gadget not worth its shelf space in a home kitchen . For a good chocolate , you have to mix the melted combination of base chocolate and additional ingredients for hours ( Wikipedia says 6 for low quality , up to 78 for best quality ) , and this is what the conche does for you . For a nice structure and shine , you also want to temper the chocolate afterwards and cool it under appropriate conditions . Chocolate is made by pressing roasted cocoa beans to cocoa liquor ( consists of cocoa butter and cocoa solids ) . The dry remainder of the beans is then ground to cocoa powder ( and sometimes also deacidified in a <URL> ) . The cocoa butter can be separated from the liquor . The pure liquor can be tempered and sold as high-end baking chocolate , also called " unsweetened chocolate " in the US ( low-end blocks of " baking chocolate " are mostly cocoa powder mixed with hydrogenated vegetable fat ) . To create bars of chocolate , chocolate creators like Lindt put cocoa liquor together with sugar in a conche to create different grades of dark chocolate ( US name : semi-sweetened chocolate ) , or also add milk or milk solids to create milk chocolate . Lower grade semisweet chocolate has cocoa powder added , so a 72 % chocolate will always have 72 % cocoa bean products and 28 % sugar , but depending on the brand , the ratio of cocoa solids and cocoa butter will vary , which will have effect on its behavior in confectionery ( a higher ratio of cocoa butter will produce a smoother chocolate with more shine ) . If you insist on changing the darkness of a chocolate you have and achieve reasonable quality , you have to throw together the needed ingredients , conche them , and temper them . For example , you could start with 100 g 60 % semi-sweet dryish chocolate , add 80 g cocoa butter and 20 g cocoa powder , and you will end up with 200 g of smooth 80 % semi-sweet chocolate , if you do it right . Given the prices for high quality raw materials , energy requirements and space taken up by a conche , and the availability of different grades of chocolate , I do n't see any reason to go through all of this instead of directly buying good quality 80 % chocolate . This all assumes that the final product you want is pure chocolate . If you are making , say , a chocolate flavored custard , where you mix ganache into custard , and you have a chocolate bar darker than what the recipe specifies , you can get a perfectly good solution by first dissolving sugar in the warm cream and making the ganache with it , and then adding it to the custard . Other recipes which work with chocolate mixes ( e.g. cake layer batters ) function in a similar way - add your ingredient ( cocoa powder if your chocolate is too light , sugar if it is too dark ) to a wet ingredient which will dissolve it , and then mix the melted chocolate in as usual .
You 've got a few things to consider -- cost of the ingredients shrinkage energy costs time costs wastage So , in our decision making tree , we have to consider the real costs of each option . Say for instance that whole roasts are on sale , so the cost of a roast is 1/2 the cost of buying the deli meat . The roast is going to lose weight as it cooks ... it 's just part of the cooking process . It could be anywhere from 10 to 25 % , depending on the cut of meat and how hot you cook it . Obviously , there will be other spices and such , but we 'll assume they 're mostly negligible . There will be the cost to power your oven ... and that 'd be a function of where you live , if it 's gas or electric ( or solar ) , etc ... and if you make too much , and ca n't eat it before it spoils , then there 's waste . ... but then we get to the most important part in my opinion -- time , and slicing . Even if we assume our time costs nothing ( and when you 're throwing something in the oven and leave it for a few hours , that part 's negligible ) . Our real time comes in slicing it -- and I do n't have a professional slicing machine , just a bunch of knives , so it 's going to take me quite a long time , and I 'm not going to get it as thin as the deli can . And in my opinion , it 's the shaving of the meat that matters ; there 's a big difference between large chunks of meat vs. thick slices vs. thinly shaved . ... So , in my opinion -- is it cost effective ? maybe a little bit , if you assume your time is free . Is it worth it ? Maybe if you want to spice it special , or make it lower salt , stay away from sulfides / sulfates , or do something else special ... but as you likely ca n't slice it the same , it 's more likely to come out as an inferior product . That 's not to say that I wo n't ever do it , but I doubt I 'd do it anytime soon , and it wo n't be because I think it 's a cost savings .
I 'd say that it 's not that we ca n't make cast iron pans as good as the old ones . It 's that for most companies that 's not where the money is . A company does n't make money by making super high quality cast iron ( " like the old stuff " ) that costs $ 100-200 per pan and selling them to a few cast iron enthusiasts ( those prices are random , I do n't actually know how much those would cost if they were made , but it would be a lot more than the current price ) . They make money by selling $ 15-30 cast iron cookware to loads and loads of consumers . Back in the day when manufacturing was n't as automated and people were involved in the process at a lot of steps , it did n't add much incremental cost to also sandblast and polish the surfaces , yielding the super-smooth surfaces that you used to see . Now , when lots of the manufacturing process is automated , adding in the additional time adds significantly to the cost of the product percentage wise . So , could we do it ? Yeah , sure . But big companies wo n't . I just suggest making your own :) As a side comment , newer cast iron is n't as nice as the old stuff for a number of reasons , but I use the newer style cast iron all the time ( my mom has not yet bequeathed me her old cast iron pans ) and it works great . Not as non-stick , heavier , and so forth , but still excellent for cooking .
You are n't going to be able to get a sourdough starter from flour to ready-to-bake in 24 hours . You could easily make a poolish or pâte fermentée in that time , and get some of the flavor . You might also be able to use some yogurt whey or another source of lactic acid to get some of the sour flavor . Unfortunately , a sour starter is something that you kind of need to keep going and have on hand .
I would say you could use it once , and probably just to make refrigerator-type , quick pickles . The problem is that you have no way to determine acidity or salt levels once you remove the previously pickled items . Of course it should look clean and clear . If you were previously doing a lactic acid fermented pickle , some of the liquid could be used to jump start your next ferment .
It is very simple , you just have to heat it long enough . It can even happen by accident :) The taste is a mixture of bitter and sour , while the smell component is mostly towards something burnt . Also , your assumption " because of the uncaramelized sugar mixed in the caramel " is incorrect , or at least incomplete . There usually is such sugar , but many of the caramelization products of the early stages of caramelization also taste sweet on their own . In later stages , you get more and more nonsweet stuff until you get into the state I described ( barely liquid charcoal ) .
This step is not about food safety , it 's about consistency and in fact about three properties of your jam : Jam comes in a wide variation of consistencies , one parameter is " stiffness " , another " water content " and a third " smoothness " . In baking , you want smooth ( no lumps ) jam that is speadable enough to form a thin layer ( especially if used as a " glue " ) , yet thick enough not to " bleed " into your baked layers . What you basically do is play with the <URL> in your jam - a warm pectin solution ( aka jam ) is soft , cold pectin solution is solid , softening goes quickly , re-solidification takes some time . But enough " kitchen chemistry " , here 's the practical approach : Warming your jam makes it liquid enough to be easily spreadable and , if necessary , to strain out any lumps of fruit . Sometimes a good stir can give similar results , but stirred jam wo n't solidify again afterwards . Boiling the jam lets water evaporate , thus thickening or " hardening " the jam ( once it solidifies again ) . This can be advisable if you have a rather thin or soft ( " watery " ) jam in the beginning . Especially under marzipan you want no excess liquid in the jam to avoid softening the marzipan layer or cause it to slip . The boiling is optional , it needs some experience to determine whether it 's really necessary for the specific brand of jam and the specific use . Cooling down the jam again has two reasons : Not all baked goods take well to being drenched with hot liquid and the possible thickness of a layer is partly determined by the consistency of the jam . Especially sponges etc. tend to soak up liquid jam , resulting in a coloured stripe of dough instead of a distinct layer of jam . ( Note that there is also the technique of brushing hot baked goods like danishes with hot apricot jam for a glossy sheen , but that 's not what we are talking about here ) But you also do n't want to wait until the pectin has solidified the jam again , because then you would be back to square one . Depending on the intended use , you let the jam cool until it has reached the desired consistency - still rather liquid under marzipan ( as it will solidify on the cake quickly ) or almost solid but easily spreadable for a distinct layer in your sponge that still can hold the cake layers together . Note that most recipes say " cool " but not " cool completely " .
It depends on how " heavy " your bread is . White bread is done at around 202 - 205 degrees Fahrenheit . Darker bread , 208 - 212 . And definitely use the Thermapen if you have one . There is no point in guessing if you do n't have to .
<URL> states that one cake is the equivalent to one packet of dried yeast ( 0.25 oz or 2.25 tsp ) : One ( 1/4-ounce ) yeast packet of dry yeast OR 1 cake fresh , compressed yeast EQUALS 2 - 1/4 teaspoons dry yeast ( active dry or instant active dry )
Salt ( Sodium chloride ) is salt . As a topping , flakes are commonly used purely for presentation purposes only . The taste is the same , but gets more intense as the salt particles get finer , so use less if the salt is in powder form As an ingredient , use any form you are happy with , and is economical to use . Once salt is dissolved into water it will be identical to any other form of salt For health reasons , finely powdered salt is preferable as much less is required to impart a salty taste
Sure , why not ? It probably wo n't turn out quite like the stuff you get at the store , but all you need is cream , a way to churn air into it , and enough agitation that the milk fat molecules start to clump together . It will require some manual work once you 've got the butter and buttercream separated . But the food processor will get you most of the way there without too much of an arm workout . Check out this <URL> with a food processor .
end question
start question
Making cherry ice cream , should I macerate the cherries ?
tl ; dr Either way is fine . When making ice cream - your quest is to bind up water . Water crystallizes and makes ice cream icy instead of creamy . There are a lot of ways to keep water from freezing in ice cream from reducing the volume of water in the mix , to using natural antifreezes , to binding the water up with gums or starches . Sugar loves water . The water will eagerly hook up with sugar and wo n't be able to freeze . If you macerate your cherries two things will happen - 1 - Water will be drawn out of the cherries and 2 - The water that is left in them will be saturated with sugar and slower to freeze . The result is that the cherries will be softer , sweeter ( of course ) , be slightly more concentrated , and not freeze solid . If you do n't macerate them then they will be little chunks for cherry ice . Both ways are perfectly tasty and I 've had ice creams that do it either way . It just depends what you want to make .
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
Cook the chicken ahead of time . I doubt your pizza cooking time and your chicken cooking time will be a perfect match , and it is more likely than anything that your chicken would be undercooked . That would not be good for anyone . If you are worried about the chicken being dry on your pizza , you can try par-cooking the pieces instead of fully cooking them ( though that may be a little dangerous , too ) , or you can add the cooked pieces to the pizza after it has begun baking .
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
Great french toast starts with the bread . You 're looking for two things : thick slices , and staleness . Why stale ? Stale bread has enough firmness to stand up to the custard . If you do n't have stale bread available , you can set it out the night before in a simple wire rack . At least 8 hours should be enough to stale it up nicely . They will be rather firm to the touch . The ideal finished product is crispy on the outside and creamy in the middle . This might be what you mean by mushy , but mushy in my mind is kind of negative . The key to accomplishing this is to let your bread soak in the custard only 30 seconds per side , but then move it to a rack to sit for another 2 minutes further . This extra set time allows the custard to penetrate deep inside the bread , and be distributed much more evenly . The final trick to getting a nice crispy crust , is to cook it twice . First in the pan/griddle as you normally would , but then 5 minutes in a 375 F oven on a rack . This brief oven stint crisps up the exterior nicely . I highly suggest watching Alton Brown 's <URL> episode . That 's where I learned the oven trick , and his recipe has n't done me wrong since . Regarding <URL> , I 've never had it , but based on the Wikipedia description it sure sounds like a good candidate . Just make sure you slice and stale it overnight .
Some answers to your questions , based on my experience with wild sourdough starter in San Francisco : 70-80F is the ideal temperature range . Below that the yeast incubates very slowly ; above it , the starter will tend to ferment alcoholically . Do not leave the starter in direct sun . UV light is a powerful sterilizing agent . An organic , cold-processed ( i.e. stone milled ) flour works best , because it will retain the maximum amount of its own wild yeast on it . Cheeseboard : Collective Works likes to start with rye flour and gradually add bread flour , but they do n't give a tested reason for this . I have never heard of using fruit juice in a sourdough starter . I would be dubious about it ; you 'd be likely to end up with vinegar . Sugar is unnecessary for sourdough starters . Use purified water ; chlorine/chloramine/ozone in tap water can kill your starter . Finally , starters incorporating milk are fridge-only starters ( as opposed to flour-and-water starters , which can be kept at room temperature if split frequently ) which depend on the bacteria and lactic acid from the fermenting milk for part of their sourness . They can be effective , and actually a good choice if you live somewhere with weak/poor wild yeast . Note that you can not transform a milk sourdough into a water sourdough , and using up 2 cups of milk every 2 weeks is more expensive than 2 cups of filtered water .
Because of the dairy products , you should n't leave it un-chilled for more than 4 hours . It 's always best to cover your food to prevent dust ( or cat fur , for example ) from covering it . Unless the frosting is really wet and gooey ( which might run into the cake ) , it 's OK to frost now .
You may absolutely freeze chocolate ganache and most other chocolate preparations . It should keep for up to a year without any noticeable change in quality . Try to get a tight seal so it does n't pick up other freezer odours . Use a small freezer bag if you can , and maybe put that in a hard sealable container as well . The freezing itself wo n't hurt the ganache at all but if it catches a whiff of those tuna casserole leftovers then you wo n't want to use it !
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
A difference I see between your recipe and other alternatives is that you do n't have any other starch besides your rice . Other recipes include a good amount of tapioca or potato starch . The other difference was that other recipes used rice flour instead of rice . You might also want to consider a change in technique . You can make rice noodles like a crepe rather than in an oiled steamer pan . Simply use a non-stick or oiled crepe pan , put in batter to crepe thickness , and let it cook until it begins to pull away from the edge of the pan . Invert and release in one motion onto a cutting board and slice .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
I would n't make the layers fully in the freezer . It will be hard to seal up and may dry out . Also , frozen layers are easier to work with . The freezer will dry out unsealed cake extremely fast . I 'd bake all the cake , trim and level them , wrap tightly and freeze on Thursday . Make the sauces and creams on Friday and put them in the fridge . Assemble all on Saturday .
I have not tried <URL> myself , but it sounds reasonable . It involves filling a clean milk carton or juice container with water , freezing it and then bashing it against a wall to crush the ice . I guess the container has to be quite sturdy to take the beating without breaking . Could be worth a try .
The standard recommended temperature for a home freezer is 0 ° F ( -18 ℃ ) . Regular ice cream keeps best at -5 ° F to 0 ° F. However , the proper storage temperature for soft serve ice cream is 18 ° F ( -7 ℃ ) . While you could raise the temperature of your freezer to accommodate this , it really would n't be recommended for the rest of your frozen foods . Short of that , your best option would be to get a tiny freezer just for your soft serve so that you can keep it at at higher temperature without risking the quality of your other food .
Baking turns bicarbonate of soda into a weak form of lye - sodium carbonate , as you said . It basically makes it a stronger alkali . The actual baking process is safe , but the resulting lye is an irritant and you should avoid getting in on your skin , and definitely avoid it getting it in your eyes . The difference in texture and colour is noticeable after baking . The texture will be finer , and it will be whiter .
Corn starch only thickens when heated to 180 F , so it probably is not helping at all with your whipped cream . I live in the US , so I can not compare to whipped cream in the UK . Whipped cream for cake fillings is often beaten almost to the breaking point to make the foam as thick as possible . I assume you are whipping the cream sufficiently , and it still is n't getting as thick as you would like . If that is the case , you might try <URL> . The link is one of many I have found on a quick search , and it specifically calls for 35 % cream . This <URL> also has some interesting thoughts and advise . This <URL> also provides an interesting method of using creme fraiche .
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
I 'd say it is a " matter of taste , " literally , because what comes out will change depending on how you process the vegetables . For example , despite the common use of carrots in stock , I feel like many chefs do n't actually want a real " carroty " flavor in stock . Quartering or roughly chopping a carrot is enough to give them plenty of " carrot notes " in their optimum flavor . Thus , my theory is that chefs often follow their particular chopping pattern to produce the balance of flavor that they want . If you chop things more finely , you may actually alter that balance . Anyhow , if your goal is maximum flavor extraction , then you 'll need to chop your carrot into finer pieces . ( You may then find that you need less carrot in your mix of vegetables . ) Other vegetables like onions do n't necessarily need fine chopping , since they already exist in relatively thin layers to allow circulation . If you quarter an onion , the liquid will already be able to infiltrate -- if you want even greater circulation , just break up those quarters into layers as you throw the onion in . And things like herbs , etc. do n't generally need to be chopped at all : just throw in whole sprigs , and they 'll provide most of their flavor after simmering even for a brief time . I would note that simmering time is also an issue here . Most chefs do n't cook vegetable stock for longer than an hour or so , since there 's no benefit ( as there is with meat stocks , where it can take hours for collagen to break down , etc. ) . In fact , by simmering too long , you can actually break down some of the more subtle flavor components , lose them to evaporation , or bury them in the more generic " overcooked " vegetable flavors . Thus , some recommend adding finely-textured herbs only briefly toward the end . ( That 's also the reason why a small amount of fresh herbs are often added as a garnish to a finished dish ; the flavor is greater and more noticeable than if they were cooked in for a long time . ) I 'm therefore somewhat skeptical of the method that used a blender before cooking , since that would cause a very fast breakdown of the vegetables and potentially unbalance the flavors . ( Some people do puree the vegetables after simmering and add them back for a more hearty or thicker broth/soup . ) In general , I 'd plan on simmering vegetable stock until the various vegetables are " done " ( soft ) and then going a bit longer , tasting it periodically until the flavor is rich and full . Chopping finer will release more flavor faster , but there is a limit because things will rapidly get " overcooked . " At that point you 'll be releasing less of the " bright " and " fresh " vegetable flavors that you get early on ; these flavors may start to break down or get lost , and eventually you 'll have more of a generic " vegetable mush " flavor .
To expand michaels answer ( assuming that you want strawberry icecream and not pieces of strawberry mixed in ) . If you are making a custard ice cream , leave the amount of egg yolks the same , because you want the lecithin from them . Reduce the sugar somewhat , because fruit is sweet . Then decide how much fruit puree you want ( maybe 1/3 the volume of the dairy part ) . Adjust the volume of the dairy so that the liquid is correct . Adjust the fat of the dairy so that the fat content is correct . Example , you start with the recipe for vanilla ice cream French ( = custard ) style by Lebovitz . 1 cup ( 250ml ) whole milk ; A pinch of salt ; 3/4 cup ( 150g ) sugar ; 1 vanilla bean , split lengthwise ; 2 cups ( 500ml ) heavy cream ; 5 large egg yolks ; 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract This recipe has 185g fat ( I calculated with 30 % fat in the cream ) , 460g dry matter ( this is both fat and non-fat ) and yields 990g ice cream ( rounded a bit ) . Let 's say that you decide to use 200g strawberry puree . 200g strawberry puree has 10g sugars , 18g dry matter and no fat . A mixture of 5 yolks , 140g sugar ( if you want , you can look at the fructose sweetness coefficient and change the sugar accordingly , but I think this is n't so much of a problem if we just substitute the 10g from strawberries ) , 200g strawberry puree and some salt and vanilla has 25g fat , 225g dry matter and weighs 430g ( rounded ) . You could create two equation systems , the first for the total volume of the dairy mixture needed , and the second one for the ratio of cream to milk , and solve these to get to a mixture with the original ratio . fatamount/total = fatpercentage liquidamount/total = liquidpercentage fatpercentage + liquidpercentage + nonfatdrypercentage = 1 where you know fatamount , liquidamount and nonfatdrypercentage is around 0.1 ( actually 0.08 for milk only and 0.12 for cream only , but we do n't need so much precision ) . Solve for total , then calculate fatpercentage . 0.3 * cream + 0.04 * milk = fatpercentage * ( milk + cream ) milk + cream = total I will take a shortcut here . I specified almost as much strawberries as milk . They have no fat ( unlike milk ) , but a similar ( actually higher ) amount of dry mass . So let 's see what happens when we keep the 500g cream and turn the 50g difference between strawberries and milk into cream too ( because we suspect we want some more fat ) . Then we have 190 g fat , 290g dry matter and 980g ice cream base . At 19.38 % fat , we are above the ratio given in the article , but close to the original ratio ( and I suspect that the article might be about Philadelphia style ice cream , which has less fat ) . The 29.59 % dry matter are again outside of the article recommendation , but close to the original recipe . In fact , I assume that well emulsified fat can prevent ice crystal creation , so the higher liquid content does n't create problems here ( also note that McGee gives a 10-20 % range for fat in ice cream , not 7-12 % ) . Long story short : do n't add fruit puree , it is mostly water . Substitute puree for milk , calculate the new percentage of fat and dry matter ( use the 7-12 % fat and 37-42 % liquid for a recipe without emulsifiers , you can be freer if you have emulsifiers ; egg yolk counts as emulsifier ) . If you are still not there , try the calculation with less puree , or increase the fat and/or dry matter until you are in the recommended range . Or just start with the equations . NB # 1 I did n't check my calculations , could have a mistake there . But the principle should be correct . NB # 2 I calculated with cream density of 1 . This was somewhat surprising , but the nutrition data for cream I found insists that a cup of cream ( 240 ml ) weighs 238 g , so the difference is small enough to not go to the trouble to convert . A recipe given by volume probably ( hopefully ) has some leeway , so this should n't skew the results into a bad recipe .
end question
start question
What is the correct procedure for cooling and reheating leftovers ?
From a food safety perspective , the most important thing is that you get your leftovers cooled as quickly as possible , so that they do n't spend too long in the <URL> . This can be tricky , because you essentially have to move from cooking temperatures to refrigerated temperatures within two hours ( generally less because the time is cumulative , and includes time that the ingredients spent in the danger zone before you cooked them ) . Here 's what I do at home : Separate into smaller portions . For me , this usually means individual servings , but you can package 2-3 servings together ; the point is to avoid having a single large mass of food . I do this for a couple of reasons . First , it makes reheating convenient ; rather than heating up more portions than you 're going to be eating , or scooping out a single portion for separate reheating ( dirtying some extra dishware in the process ) you can simply grab as many portions as desired and go . Second , by separating the portions you are increasing their surface area , and therefore how quickly they will cool ( another reason I like individual servings is that it maximizes this effect ) . This is a basic trick from my restaurant days ; experienced professional cooks will know that to cool a large batch of soup safely , you need to either get the whole thing into an ice bath , or break it down into smaller portions . ( A thrifty tip here : you can use dedicated plastic or Pyrex food storage containers , but commercial containers are cheap and effective as well . There are all kinds of <URL> and <URL> containers intended for food service that are microwave-safe and which can be safely cleaned in the dishwasher . You 'll often have to buy them in bulk , but per piece they 're very inexpensive , they tend to stack very well , and if you 're lucky you can find a decent local takeaway or delivery place that uses them instead of styrofoam . Save whatever you get , wash them , and reuse . It 's possible to ruin these with excessive heat , but they 're so cheap that it 's not too much of a loss . ) Allow to cool on the counter , uncovered , for 10-20 minutes . The goal here is simply to let steam escape ; water carries a lot of thermal energy with it ( which is why you can easily burn yourself over a pot of boiling water ) and letting it get away will cool your food rapidly . The portions do n't need to cool completely at this point ; if they 're warm but no longer actively steaming , that 's fine . Put the portions in the refrigerator . As @Jefromi notes in comments , <URL> , and a lower external temperature will help your portions cool quickly and safely . Where possible , it 's ideal to leave these uncovered and spread out into a single layer so that they will cool quickly . Quite honestly , this is n't always practical , so if you need to cover and stack the portions due to space constraints , cool them a little longer on the counter before putting them into the fridge . Freeze the portions if you 'll be storing them for more than a couple of days . <URL> ; if you need to keep them beyond that , the freezer is your friend . This does n't work well for everything , but hearty foods like pastas will often freeze reasonably well . Reheat thoroughly in the microwave . For all that serious cooks might discount the microwave , it 's a very effective and efficient reheating device . ( Especially if you follow my advice about using microwave-safe plastic containers ; if you use something like Pyrex that 's oven-safe , you could certainly use that too . ) Make sure you heat everything so that it 's evenly hot ; this may mean stirring a couple of times . Overall , it 's most definitely possible to safely store leftovers , so long as you cool them quickly and reheat them thoroughly . Not only that , but I heartily endorse the practice . Leftovers can be practical , tasty , and a serious time saver . There 's no reason to be paranoid about them if you embrace a few simple rules .
Pot Roasting = Braising This more recent document from the same association , Cattlemen 's Beef Board and National Cattlemen 's Beef , supports this by using them interchangeably : <URL> I was trying to figure out what the document from your question may have been implying by the cuts the different cooking techniques were recommended for . And I 'd guess , because Pot Roasting is applied to more connective heavy cuts , that braising would be a shorter cooking time . That 's my best guess .
<URL> 160 ° F ( 71 ° C ) for dishes containing eggs . If you 're scrambling eggs or making an omelette , as long as they 're coagulated/solidified , they 'll be safe . The easiest way to confirm this is with sous vide eggs . For example , this <URL> has 155 ° F , 160 ° F , and 165 ° F eggs : <URL> <URL> <URL> which clearly show that the white wo n't be totally solidified until 160 ° F or even 165 ° F , even when cooked for an extended period of time . ( To be clear , those lower-temperature eggs are actually safe if cooked for sufficient time . The point here is just to show coagulation versus temperature , to demonstrate that when eggs cooking in a pan , you can use the solidity as a temperature indicator . )
Your filling is basically a beef stew/casserole , so any cuts that suite long slow cooking are fine . They get cooked again while the pie is baked , so premium cuts will just be wasted The lower grade and ' off cut ' parts are what are most commonly used . Like rump , brisket , chuck , shank , neck etc Using a bench top slow cooker makes cooking this all very easy . The beef needs to be fully cooked before making the pie . An eight hour slow cook is fine You want the pieces to be a variety of sizes to fill out the pie shape , but make sure you have some at least the height of the pie filling . The larger pieces tend to be better , but that could be a matter of taste and culture You need to get rid of plenty of fat before and after cooking . A mouth full of fat in a pie is not nice . There is already plenty of fat in the gravy and pastry , so trim off all you can A good meat pie should have a solid layer of meat connected with gravy , not swimming . It should also not be so full as you ca n't eat it with your hands ( for a single serve pie ) without loosing half the contents Puff/flakey pastry works best and holds everything together Avoid overly strong flavoured gravies , you do n't want to hide the beef and pastry taste Before you attach the lid , place a slice of tasty cheese , or an extra generous serving of cracked pepper on top of the filling A respectable pie looks like this - thanks to Ponsonby Pies ( not made in Ponsonby anymore )
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
It 's not that simple . Every culture cuts their beef differently ( or not at all ! ) and therefore has different names for it Around the Belgium , Dutch , French low lands they call what the US call brisket and flank , just flank . And what other parts of France might call brisket is not always cut separately , it is just part of the chuck Confused , we are ... Many butchers in cities receive partially processed carcass parts , so parts like the chest ( brisket ) may have been removed for processed meat etc So you need to take a cutting diagram to a butcher whom displays whole carcasses and you should be able to get what you want As I understand it the brisket extends from in front on the fore legs , between the forelegs and a short way past them ? When we have a beast killed most of that goes into the salamis , yum ! Edit : Some common words used are : Flanchet Plat de côte Poitrine Tendron A popular brisket cut is a long thin ( 10mm ) strip of the full width of the brisket ( left to right ) . A serving is a single slice slowly grilled and topped with a chunky sauce
There is no single ideal . More sugar and butter will mean a more crunchy crumble top ( and one that browns or burns more quickly ) , more flour will make it more sandy - they each have their place . The juicier the fruit , the sandier I like the topping to absorb some of the juice . The longer the fruit needs to cook , the more resilient to cooking the topping needs to be . And of course for a tart fruit like rhubarb , you might like more sugar in the topping to balance it - or you might just add sugar to the fruit and leave the topping alone . My goto mix is 1 cup flour , 1 cup sugar , 1/2 cup butter . But play with it a bit and vary it according to the fruit you are using - and I do n't just mean " rhubarb " or " apples " but taste a bit of today 's fruit to see how sweet it is , how soft it is , etc. .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Offal is a general term for any parts of the animal 's innards which are not the conventional cuts from the muscle and bone . It would vary by cuisine , but could include liver , kidneys , heart , brains , stomach , or tongue . Those particularly fussy about what they eat might even extend it to things like tail and neck , although most would n't regard these as offal per se . Tripe , on the other hand , refers specifically to the stomach . It 's usually washed , and often bleached , then slow cooked , although again , the preparation varies by region . Common tripe dishes come from the stomachs of cow and sheep , and despite falling out of favour as a cheap alternative to regular meat , it 's still quite popular in some parts of Europe .
easiest way is to mix it with the sauce and heat both up together . Usually I 'd do this in a pan , but you could use a microwave . If you have to heat the pasta up on its own , what I usually do is do it in a pan and add a little boiling water , just a couple of tablespoons , enough to stop it sticking , and keep stirring until its warmed through . If it starts to stick add a little more water . You could do this in a microwave I 'd bet , but I do n't have one .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
Bread hydration varies widely . The " standard " bread using all-purpose ( plain ) flour has a ratio of water to flour weight ( hydration ) 60-65 % . Flour with a higher protein level , labelled as bread , strong , or high-gluten , tend to use 65 % hydration . Ciabatta and rustic breads generally use more water than normal . The extra water gives them more large , uneven holes in the interior of the bread ( called the crumb ) , and generally leads to a higher-rising bread . These wetter doughs are often referred to as " slack " doughs in baker 's parlance . Here are a couple sample hydrations from Hammelman 's bread baking : Baguettes with poolish , 66 % hydration , all bread flour Ciabatta , 73 % hydration , all bread flour Pain Rustique ( rustic bread ) , 69 % hydration , all bread flour Country Bread , 68 % hydration , all bread flour Roasted Potato bread , 61 % hydration , 85 % bread flour / 15 % whole wheat flour / 25 % roasted potatoes Whole wheat bread , 68 % hydration , 50/50 whole wheat and bread flour Semolina ( Durum ) bread , 62 % hydration , 50/50 durum and bread flours Mind you , it is quite possible to make a bread with even higher water content , if one is a skilled baker . Wetter breads ( 70 % hydration and up ) generally can not be hand-kneaded normally , and require a mechanical mixer , stretch-and-fold kneading with a spatula , or autolysis . Autolysis is when you mix water and flour before adding yeast , and then allow it to sit . This allows enzymes in the flour to develop gluten before the rising begins , and can supplement or replace normal kneading . Another approach , called double-hydration , is to add only part of the water before kneading . This allows you to knead the bread to develop gluten structure before it becomes too wet to knead . For extremely wet breads , these methods may all be combined . I 'm looking right now at a double-hydration , mechanically mixed , autolyzed , poolish-using ciabatta recipe that sits at 76 % hydration .
I think a bread knife would shred the skin and flesh . I would place skin side down and , ideally , use a sharp slicing knife . Sharp is the key . I have also used a chef 's knife and a fillet knife for this task . The goal is to achieve a clean cut .
Yes , there is a difference in taste . I think it 's the chlorophyll , but I may be wrong . But the green asparagus has a " vegetable " or " grassy " taste which is n't present in the white asparagus . The white one has its own distinct aroma , which is less pronounced in the green one . As for texture , Caleb already said it . White asparagus is more tender , if you buy it fresh enough . On the other hand , non-tender green asparagus is snappy and somewhat brittle , like a normal stalk . Non-tender white asparagus is tough and stringy . When I cook white asparagus , I remove the lowest part ( the most stringy one ) and peel it ( the outer layer is especially string prone ) and sometimes , if it turns out to be low quality/old , it still has an unpleasant texture . The green one seldom requires removal of the lower part , and never peeling . Violet asparagus is like white one in both taste and texture , but not as common . Oh , and what Caleb says about both being the same plant is correct , but I have never heard of little shades . All farmers in Germany grow white asparagus underground . They make mounds of earth above the place where the asparagus is planted , and it has to grow a lot before it reaches the surface . They also cover the mounds with black foil to get the earth warm in spring . The harvest starts sometime in April and ends by tradition on June 24 . It is done by hand , because machines would break the rods . This makes it a quite costly vegetable . And it should be eaten fresh , because the longer it spends outside of the earth , the stringier it gets . I do n't share the common German enthusiasm for white asparagus ( " royal vegetable " etc. ) but think that it is a good vegetable in its own right . If you can get it fresh , it is worth eating now and then .
There does n't appear to be any difference . Wikipedia says " In English-speaking countries , Berliners are usually called doughnuts and are usually filled with jam , jelly , custard or whipped cream " , and <URL> says " The English translation of krapfen is cruller or doughnut " . There are so many variations of filling , topping , shape and so forth that it is hard to establish a single identity anyhow .
They 're the same thing . About the only difference is that " garbanzo bean " is less common in British English than in American English , and chickpea is more common either way , but it 's just a language thing . There are indeed different varieties , with some smaller and some larger , but they do n't have common language names like that . <URL> : Desi , which has small , darker seeds and a rough coat , cultivated mostly in the India and much of the Indian Subcontinent , as well as Ethiopia , Mexico , and Iran . Bombay ( Bambai ) , which is also dark in colour but slightly larger in size than the Desi variety . They too are popular in the Indian Subcontinent . Kabuli , associated with Kabul in Afghanistan . These are lighter coloured , with larger seeds and a smoother coat , mainly grown in Southern Europe , Northern Africa , South America and Indian Subcontinent , having been introduced during the 18th century to India . Note that it says that one of the smaller varieties is commonly grown in Mexico , so the blog is n't really even quite correct to say " large Mexican chickpeas " ( though I 've certainly also seen large chickpeas from Mexican brands ) . I would n't lend too much authority to that blog post on that particular point . ( A lot of the rest is subjective too , of course . )
I never boil rice noodles . Just soak them in cold water for about an hour .
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
end question
start question
How do you get a feel for the heat ( direct heat ) ?
I 'm with KatieK . That said , this ' how hot ' can be mysterious for Professionals as well . In " Seven Fires , the Argentine way of Grilling , " a book about cooking on open flame heat ( outside mostly ) , the author mentions traveling around to a bunch of Argentine steak places to time and measure what the chefs did mostly by touch and feel . So , even for a pro , getting it just right takes a lot of time and experience . If you 're persnickety , maybe you should get an infra-red thermometer .
Pepper sauces usually deliver an aroma ( from the peppers ) , some sweet/sour/salty element ( from the pickling ingredients mostly ) , and heat ( from the peppers ) . A hotter pepper will not necessarily be stronger in aroma , so using this kind of super hot pepper alone can end you up with a sauce that is hot but poor in flavor . Also , given that capsaicin is very soluble in fat but not very soluble in water/vinegar , such a sauce will have a very uneven distribution of heat and will likely end up with a very harsh , unpleasant heat no matter how diluted - similar to throwing chile powder into a lean soup .
Here 's a website that goes into it and includes a picture of the gizmo to which you refer : <URL> " This little single serving device is meant to fit over a cup , hold about two tablespoons worth of coffee , and the required amount of water for brewing . There is a screen on the bottom , and a plunger with another screen on it that screws down on top of the coffee to smush it between the two filters . The tightness of this top filter controls the strength of the coffee . The tighter it is , the slower water flows , and the stronger the brew . " EDIT : Regarding the " bonus question " : I 'm not aware of chicory as an ingredient in Vietnamese/Thai iced coffee , I 'm only familiar with it as a traditional New Orleans addition , having migrated from France . It became a popular substitution during the French Revolution when coffee became prohibitively expensive . I dug up a recipe for New Orleans chicory coffee <URL> . " Ingredients 1 lb . coarsely ground coffee , 1 1/2 oz . roasted and chopped chicory , 2 1/2 quarts water , 3 oz . simple syrup , Tools Large stockpot , Wooden spoon , Fine-mesh sieve , Large Mason jar , Combine the ground coffee , chicory and water in a stockpot . Stir with a wooden spoon , cover and let steep at room temperature for 8-12 hours . Carefully break the crust of the coffee grounds with a spoon and strain through a fine-mesh sieve into the Mason jar . Add simple syrup to concentrate and stir to combine . Serve over ice and add milk to taste -- most people opt for about a 50/50 ratio of milk to chicory-coffee concentrate . Keep refrigerated and use within 1-2 days . Yields 4-5 cups of concentrate .
That is simply caramelized sugar that coats the dish before the custard is poured in for baking . As the flan is chilled , the moisture from the custard liquefies the caramelized sugar and results in the sauce . If you 're wanting to make it for other desserts and are n't making flan , then simply caramelize sugar and then add water to it . Be careful as the steam can easily burn you if you 're standing over it . The sugar will seize up and then as it continues to cook the crytallized caramelized sugar will liquefy . You will then have caramelized sugar syrup .
In my experience , the lowest setting of my induction cooker - 120 watts - is too high and results in scorched chocolate and will also burn dairy products like a cheese sauce . I would n't use it for a fondue - I would use a candle . It 's possible this restaurant had specialty induction cookers that could reach lower temperatures . My single-burner el cheapo induction cooker is standard off-the-shelf . Edited to add : I use my induction cooker , never my gas stove , for deep frying . With my induction cooker ( which goes up to 2000 watts ) , 600 watts is the perfect setting for deep frying and no fiddling is required - it always works perfectly . So for hot oil fondues , where you 're essentially deep frying meat , I absolutely would use an induction cooker . It would be my cooking tool of choice .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
If it is completely empty , you probably ca n't reach dangerous temperatures with your stove . The iron itself melts at 1500 ° C . The seasoning can be burnt off at much lower temperatures , a self-cleaning cycle in the oven is enough for it ( 500 ° C ) . I have taken an iron pan to above 400 ° C without damaging the seasoning . ( I do n't know exactly how high it was , my thermometer does n't go above 400 ° C ) . This was on an induction stove set at maximum , I doubt that any other kind of stove can produce such temperatures . Edit I just heard an example showing that you can take a pan on a resistive stove to above 500 ° C with prolonged heating , so you should be measuring it if you plan to go that high . ( and if you have a thermometer in this range , you can post your findings to further limit the range of 400 ° to 500 ° C , because I 'm curious ) . But if you say " no contents " , be careful that it is actually just the pan . You can not oil it , because the self-ignition temperature ( of flash point ) of vegetable oil is low , Wikipedia gives it at 327 ° C . It could just smoke terribly and throw a spark or two when you reach it , but it can also flame up and then you are holding a small brand in your hand .
Most dishes require a chopped leek in any case , but for an uncut leek you will have to separate by hand and wash each leaf separately . If you want the leek in an untouched form I think you 're out of luck . You could try reassembling it after separating and washing :) Depending on the form you want your leaves in there are different ways . If you want them in strips you just cut lengthwise from above the root - keep the root on for now . Then you can rinse the leaves as they should be easy to separate . After rinsing remove the root . For ' chopped ' leaves cut the leek lengthwise and chop crosswise , removing the root in the process . The leaves will separate , and you can then wash the dirt from them in a colander . Skipping the lengthwise cut will usually make the leaves stay together , trapping the grit you want to get at . If you want to make doubly sure , you could first place the cut leeks in a bowl and swirl it around . The dirt will separate to the bottom . You can then take out the leeks and finish rinsing in the colander . Do n't pour the bowl into the colander as this just pours the grit over the leaves .
Hot peppers wo n't work with brine , as brine is water-based and capsaicin ( the pepper hotness ) is not soluble in water . You would need an oil-based marinade to pass the ' heat ' .
Standard prep for beef tongue seems to be : scrub it well and rinse , then soak it in cold water for 2-3 hours . Heat water to a low simmer ( about 200F ) and cook slowly for at least an hour per pound . Preferably cook as long as you can ( 5-6 hours ) to get a more tender result . When meat is tender and cooked , remove meat and save the broth . Cool the tongue and peel off the outer skin . The broth may be reduced and added to vegetables and meat to create a richer , meatier taco . I also found a tongue taco ( how is that NOT slang for some sexual act ? ) <URL> . Personally , I 'm also a big fan of cold boiled beef tongue with horseradish sauce . You can go from the cooked tongue straight to that just by slicing it up . Now I really want to make tongue tacos .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
I would suggest not roasting a chicken at such a low heat for so long . Here is a response to a similar question on another cooking forum : A few days ago I printed out a recipe from peacefulnightdove " BEST Slow-Roasted Chicken " . It sounded wonderful but was to be roasted at 250 F ( 126 C ) degrees for 5 hours . That sounded like a low temperature to me , so I emailed the County Nutritionist and Health Agent where I lived . Here is her reply : Good for you JoAnn to be suspicious ! That is definitely outside the USDA guidelines , and yes bacteria may well be growing for quite a while in there . Poultry especially should not be done at less than 325 degrees . You could use the same spices and onions , increase the temp to 325 and decrease the time . Figure about 20 min per pound for the time . The safest way is to use a meat thermometer , final temp in the thigh should be 180 degrees . <URL> I would also suggest using a crockpot .
I think you 're misunderstanding the claim slightly . You do not heat an already pureed soup , you puree and heat in one step . You can indeed make a hot soup from cold ingredients using certain high end blenders . The only one I 've verified this with is the vita-mix . To do this , you put your ingredients in to the blender , turn it on , and let it run about 5 minutes . The friction from the blades heats the soup while chopping the ingredients . The soup will get piping hot . Why would you do it ? It 's easy . It takes about 2 mins to get the soup really smooth , so it 's 3 more minutes to get it hot . That 's faster than you would be able to do with a stove , although maybe slower than a microwave . Is it more efficient ? I do n't know , but I doubt the difference in electrical efficiency is really sufficient to drive a choice one way or the other . In terms of cleaning , you already need to clean the blender because you pureed the soup . There 's no additional cleaning to do if you cook it there too , versus additional cleaning for stove or microwave . And the blender is easy to clean as it 's one piece ; you just add soap and water and turn it on for 30 seconds , then rinse . Personally , I do not think this is " one of the main selling points " . It 's a neat trick , and it 's useful . However , I think that it 's more interesting as an indication of the blenders power . You can use these blenders to make exceptionally smooth soup , make peanut butter , properly crush ice for frozen drinks , etc. . They do this much better than a ' normal ' home blender , but just saying ' better ' probably would n't sell a lot of these things at 4x the price , so they focus on something that the standard home blender most certainly can not do .
Roasting I use direct heat , medium-high to high , specifically I use my grill but I 've seen people set them directly on a gas stove burner ( this seems like a fire hazard , so do n't walk away ) . You could also broil them very close to the broiler , or roast them , but roasting will take longer than direct heat methods . To easily peel them , you want to go until they 're as black as possible . The blacker , the easier they are to peel . On my propane grill on medium-high flame , this takes about 4 minutes per side , my grill burns a little hot so you might need 5-6 minutes per side depending on how your grill works . edit : I also keep the lid closed so the flame climbs a bit more , especially important on a windy day . You can find a picture on the top of <URL> , I actually let mine get significantly darker than that , but it 's not required . There are some great general roasting tips in <URL> as well as peeling tips in <URL> . Grilling For grilling peppers , instead of keeping them whole , seed them and then cut them into quarters and lightly coat them with a little oil . I still use a higher , direct heat , but I flip the peppers more often so they will char a little without completely blackening . Since you 're just going for a light char , this will take a little less time than roasted peppers would , about 8 minutes compared to 12 . There is a good step by step guide with pictures <URL> .
Shiitake mushrooms are certainly not poisonous , either raw , cooked or as you posit in your question , after being cooked , stored in the refrigerator and consumed later . If you enjoy eating them cold , go for it . Just keep in mind that like any other cooked food , they can spoil if not stored properly ( I have some leftover Chinese mustard greens stir-fried with shiitakes in my fridge right now , and have been eating them for days ) . However : There is a rare allergic reaction in some people called <URL> which is brought on by eating uncooked or under-cooked Shiitakes . Note that this does not mean it is poisonous , it is a food allergy for all purposes like any other ( think shellfish , wheat , soy etc. ) In addition to that , If you look , you will probably find advice to cook all mushrooms before eating ( this probably has more to do with digestibility than anything though ) . Although I believe this is really aimed more at wild harvested mushrooms , in his wild mushroom identification book " All that the rain promises and more " , David Arora can be quoted as saying : " With very few exceptions , mushrooms should not be eaten raw . They are safer , more digestible and more nutritious when cooked ... " Personally , I would not shy away from eating Shiitakes raw for any safety reason , but you then may be robbing yourself of some of the nutritional value .
Honestly , do n't grill . Do n't run away ! Hamburgers were originally cooked in pans , not on grills . One of the reasons for this is thta with grilling you lose any fat and moisture that comes out of the burger . So I use Heston Blumenthal 's method now . While I tend to ignore the preparation elements ( I have neither the time nor the money to hand-grind my burgers with a specific ratio of this cut to that cut to the other cut ) , the cooking method is flawless : Make your burgers . Over very low heat , place a pan with just a little oil ( or bacon/duck fat , which is lovely ) . introduce burgers to pan . As soon as they release easily from the surface , flip . Thirty seconds later , flip . Repeat until cooked through . ( fifteen to twentyish minutes ) . This will give you the juiciest , most tender burgers you have ever had in your life . I promise . Essentially what you 're doing is basting the burgers in their own fat . Alternatively , if you have an immersion circulator , cook your burgers sous vide and then just mark on the grill when done . I 've had burgers done this way and they are excellent . Burgers will flare on the grill -- that 's all the fat ( and therefore flavour ) being squeezed out by the action of cooking and burning away .
If you want to turn your cold butter spreadable quickly , patience is about your only option . You can try microwaving it very briefly , and maybe on the " defrost " setting , but you run a strong risk of melting it too much . If I 'm thinking of the same thing you are , a butter conditioner is really just a unit that allows you to keep your butter in the fridge but still keep it closer to room temp -- so that 's more about storage than turning hard butter into spreadable butter on the spot . A storage option that allows you to keep your butter fresh for a pretty long period , but still leave it out on the counter so it 's soft , is a butter bell . You can look them up online -- many shops have them . It 's basically an inverted cup that sits inside a larger one with a little water at the bottom . The butter is packed into the inverted cup and stays put when you place the cup so the edges are under the water in the other cup . The water keeps air out so the butter stays fresh even at room temperature . You could do the same thing by mashing a bunch of butter into a teacup , then setting it upside down in a saucer full of water . If it 's too hot in your house , though , the butter will slip out of the inverted cup , so I mostly only use our butter bell in the winter . One thing to note about butter itself : Some butters are more spreadable at cooler temperatures . The Irish and French butters we can get here are much closer to spreadable at refrigerator temperatures than the regular US supermarket brands . I 'm not sure what the difference is , though .
If you are looking to fry veggies then yes it is nessassary to pre heat . If you put them in a cold pan and oil you start ' sweating ' the veggies not frying them . For example : a sliced onion put into a pan with hot oil will cook and have a nice golden brown color as it caramalizes . Put that same sliced onion in a cold pan with cold oil and then add heat the onion first turns translucent and looses moisture . Both of these cooking methods have their uses , but they are different . How do you know when the oil is ready to cook ? It will start to shimmer a little before it reaches the smokeing point . put the vegies in when you see this shimmer , or at the very fisrt wisp of smoke .
In my somewhat limited experience you have two things that affect growth of the crispy ears . As Caleb mentions using a lame to score your bread means you can cut with a bit of an angle that will promote a little flap . The second is ensuring a rapid oven spring , which will cause the flap to open as much as possible before the starches on the surface set . The key to good oven spring is having a hot enough oven ( preheat longer than you think you need to if you are using a stone or other heat-storing vessel in the oven ) , and a source of steam injection . A few ways to do get some steam : When you put the dough in , pour a 1/2 cup of boiling water into a small cast iron skillet pre-heated in the oven . Spritz the walls of the oven with water when you put the dough in . My favorite - preheat a large dutch oven , and put the dough inside the dutch oven ( lid on ) to bake . For the last 10 minutes of the bake , remove the lid . The dutch oven stores some of the initial steam release and makes for much nicer spring and crusts . Of course , only round bread fits .
end question
start question
Why is my cheese sauce gritty ?
Could be an unfinished roux ( the butter , flour mixture ) . But most likely it 's because the cheese was heated too quickly or too much , causing the protein to clump up . Suggestions : Melt with less heat Use a double boiler ( to reduce hot spots within the pan ) Toss the shredded cheddar with cornstarch first ( starch helps reduce clumping ) Add cheese in smaller batches ( easier to maintain correct heat level and stir cheese in )
Unfortunately , cornstarch does that . It does not reheat well . Potato starch is even worse , and that 's the thickener in Knorr 's Leek Soup . If you want to reheat something thickened , your best bet is to thicken it with a roux . There are other more modern thickeners ( think molecular gastronomy ) , but I do n't know much about those .
Pre-grated . Do n't use pre-grated cheese for any sauce where consistency matters . Pre-grated cheeses are almost universally coated with cellulose to prevent clumping . This will muck up a good sauce every time . If it 's going into a lasagna or a mac &amp; cheese though , chances are it will go unnoticed by any but the cook .
Some <URL> produce pink or white seeds so yours sounds perfectly normal . I have had white seeds and they are as delicious as the red ones . Go for it .
Classic Chevre uses a bacterial culture as well as rennet to coagulate the cheese , but that is not the only way to make a goat 's cheese . The recipe you linked to does n't have a long incubation time , so I doubt there 's any intention that the buttermilk is inoculating the cheese and there 's no rennet . So I think the " bacteria " idea is a red herring . A very simple goat 's cheese can be made with goat 's milk and lemon juice . I have had great success with it . It does make a fairly soft cheese , though how soft depends on how long its left to drain . The recipe I use has 1/3 cup ( US ) lemon juice to 1 quart milk . I 'm in the UK so this works out as 2 lemons per litre . The result is quite " lemony " and you might want to use another acid source ( white wine vinegar for instance ) but if you keep trying you can home in on what you like . Simple acid cheeses like reasonably high temperatures . My recipe uses 180 - 185F ( which may be hotter than you have used ) before adding the lemon juice . The other thing is , its generally much easier to just let the milk sit after acidification so the curd can develop . 10 minutes is usually enough , but you can always leave it 20 or 30 minutes if the curd is slow to set . The guilty kitchen recipe goes straight to ladling out the curds . That is something you do for a ricotta or high acid cheese ( which may sort of be what they are aiming for - I do n't cook with buttermilk myself so do n't have the experience ) but I 'd want to let things set a bit first with a simple goat 's cheese . So : warm slowly to 180-185F , add lemon , sit , strain through cheesecloth to the texture you like . Crumbly may be an indication that its not setting long enough ?
The crystalization is to be expected , that 's what inverted sugar does . It is the same thing as with honey , which is chemically nothing but a contaminated inverted sugar . So , you are not doing anything wrong . In an inverted sugar at sucrose ratios , you will get sucrose crystalizing back out of the solution , just as you are observing now . If you really need it smooth , you can try changing the ratio by adding some fructose , as such a mixture is less prone to crystalizing . The one thing that puzzles me in your description is that you can not get it back smooth by heating , this should in principle be possible . Maybe try adding a bit of water to the syrup itself during heating , so it can dissolve again .
Expiration dates on milk are not intended for open containers . Any open milk is only good for 3-5 days . After that , it is not safe for drinking , and taste is not guaranteed either . Many people seem to not know that . Traditionally , you could only buy HTST pasteurized milk , which has 7-10 days of usable time altogether . It spent 2-3 days on its way to the customer , and if a milk opened on day 3 after production went off on day 8 , nobody wondered , because it was on or just before the expiration date . Today , you get also ESL milks and nut milks , which have a much longer life in the closed container . But once you open them , they start acting like any other food - they are only good for 3-5 days in the fridge , no longer . The expiration date does n't matter for open foods .
Hmm . I would say that pumpkins maybe have a slight bit of acidity , but I would never think of them as distinctly sour . I suppose it could be the variety you are using . Also , taste your stock by itself to make sure it is n't contributing an unwanted sour note . All of that said , it may just be one of those expectation things . We are used to pumpkin in a sweet context , and your brain wants that little bit of sugar there to match the template , so it seems sour without it . If you really want to test this out further , try making a small batch of the same recipe with no spices and plain water to see if it is truly the pumpkin that seems sour to you .
I freeze cheese all the time , mostly mozzarella . It keeps longer . ( If I keep mozzarella or similar cheeses too long in the fridge it gets moldy , often even before its expiration date . ) However , I usually use frozen cheese only for cooking - i.e. if it 's going to be melted . Freezing cheese does change the texture . Parmesan , though , being a hard , aged cheese would probably be less affected by freezing . However , on the same token , aged cheeses keep very nicely in the fridge , so I would n't see much benefit in freezing it .
<URL> says it 's not air and water : the squeakiness is caused by rubbing against the network of protein strands in the curds , and the squeakiness fades over time because the protein network deteriorates . With respect to microwaving , it says : The reason microwaving helps reinvigorate some of the squeakiness is that the heat starts to alter the amount of moisture trapped inside the curds and creates another bout of hydrolysis , dropping more negatively charged hydrogen ions from casein proteins while they bind to the internal heating water . I 'm inclined to believe this because it explains why cheese curds are different from , say , cheese , and it 's a more detailed explanation consistent with the article cited in Laura 's answer ( saying the protein networks are more elastic when fresh ) , which also explains the effect of the microwave !
Most pestos use olive oil , which solidifies at around 6 degrees celsius - just over the temperature of the average fridge . The shop-bought pestos you buy probably adulterate the olive oil with other kinds of oils . In any case , you 'll be able to eat your pesto just by leaving it out at room temperature for a few hours , or by just scooping it out and adding to your hot pasta .
After a few experiments , I found the lessening the concentration of the cure left the meat undercured and still salty , whereas a soak eased out the excess salt of the already-cured beef .
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
You <URL> . Once it 's opened it 's good for a month or so with no appreciable change . After that the flavour and colour starts to degrade , but it 's still safe to eat . Worcestershire sauce is fermented for more than a year before it 's bottled , so it will change at a much slower rate than an acidic , but unfermented sauce like ketchup . Still , it 's only good for a few years after it 's opened .
Onions have a lot of sugar in them . All they want in the world is to burn and fill your kitchen with oniony smoke . The solution , as with all things heavy in sugar , is to turn down the heat and stir frequently . That said - if your olive oil was extra virgin then it might have been your oil that started burning before the onions did .
Minerals , naturally found in salt whether it 's mined or evaporated ; and believe it or not , water . <URL> In the US , the FDA requires that salt must not contain more than 2.5 % minerals other than NaCl and still call itself salt . That 2.5 % does not include water . <URL> Your numbers for sodium content seem a bit low , but not extremely so , especially for a very unrefined , wet salt . The more refined the salt , the less trace minerals it will contain . Outside the US , it 's possible that your salt also contains added iodine , fluoride , folic acid and/or anti-caking agents , but in the US those would be listed among the ingredients , and would be included in that 2.5 % . Only iodine and anti-caking agents are common in the US . Plus , nutritional information labels have legal margins of error . If and when they can , they 'll be slick . Lower sodium looks good on a nutritional label .
The crumbly texture is , apparently , quite common when working with an all buckwheat dough since it does n't develop gluten - one of the reasons why many home-made soba noodle recipes use a percentage of wheat flour to make the dough easier to work with . If you have your heart set on a buckwheat-only soba noodle , be aware this is a common problem . You might try boiling water and rolling and cutting a little thicker so they do n't end up so fragile , mentioned below . I also saw that the <URL> may be important ( using a Japanese style , rather than American style buckwheat flour , apparently makes a big difference ) . Check that the flour type is correct , that may help . Another recipe I saw " <URL> " the flour ( making a dough with water and a bit of lemon juice , and letting sit under a wet cloth overnight ) to give the dough time to hydrate the flour . I 'm not sure whether the lemon juice or the extra long resting time was the relevant factor , but she does n't seem to have problems with the dough . And the last suggestion I found involved " beating the buckwheat " , that is , mechanically working the dough long enough for the water-soluble parts of the flour to dissolve into the dough and let it become elastic that way ( this extra working may be related to the extra-hydrating time of the last hint , or perhaps actual , mechanical <URL> might be helpful in working the dough - it is used in some kinds of recipes to make dough behave ) . From an article I found , <URL> : Not only does a dough of 100 % buckwheat flour tend to crumble and break while you work it , but it also dries out incredibly quickly and the resulting noodles are very fragile . Glenn Roberts of Anson Mills recommends using boiling water when making soba with 100 % buckwheat to gelatinize the buckwheat starches and help the dough hold together . Roll the dough a bit thicker than recommended in the recipe below , and once made , cook and eat the noodles immediately before they dry out .
My best guess is that your stock is very weak . Two gallons of water to just the bones from one turkey will not be a strong stock . It may well well have gelatin in it , but very thin . I make stock for a single turkey with the wing tips ( not the ' drumstick ' part ) , the back , the neck -- everything but the breast and leg/thighs in with about 1 gallon of water to start , which reduces to several quarts over the course of three-four hours . This produces a very shaky jelly -- much thinner than the one in a jar of Smuckers for example .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
Generally , no , it should not be overly gritty . The grind itself should be very fine , finer than an espresso grind . Secondly after the coffee is brewed , it 's generally covered and left for a while so that the coffee grounds settle to the bottom of the pot . Then , when being poured , it should be poured carefully so the settled grounds are n't disturbed and end up in the cup . If you do n't let it settle , you 'll have a lot of the coffee grinds floating in the cup and it 'll have a powdery texture ( although it should be overly gritty given the fineness of the grind ) . You 'll generally still get a little of the coffee grinds in the cup but it should n't be a small amount and it should settle to the bottom . Generally , the coffee is unsweetened ( as many take it unsweetened ) but it is commonly spiced with cardamon . The host will generally sweeten each cup to taste or will provide a small bowl of sugar allowing drinkers to sweeten the coffee to their own taste .
end question
start question
French whisk handle has rocks in it ?
It could be sand , used to weight the handle . The weight is an important part of the design . I assume some manufacturers use sand instead of just thicker/heavier steel because it 's cheaper and easier to manufacture . For proof that at least some whisks are made like this , here 's <URL> and even a picture : <URL> It 's just inert weight . It 's not going to come into contact with your food . I guess if you get a defective one and the handle comes open and dumps sand in your food , you 'd have to throw it out , but otherwise it 's not really anything to worry about .
In theory you could thaw and refreeze as many times as you like , though the changes in temperature would definitely alter the quality of the meat 's taste and texture . What matters most is how long the meat has been in the so-called " danger zone " speaking from a temperature perspective . The " danger zone " is defined as being between 41 to 135 ° F ( 5 to 57 ° C ) . Here is an excerpt from <URL> : Foods left in the danger zone for a period longer than four hours are considered adulterated . Additionally , one should be fully aware that the four-hour period is cumulative , meaning that the meter starts running again every time the food enters the danger zone . Therefore , once the four-hour period has been exceeded , heating , cooling , or any other cooking method can not recover foods .
Folding is almost always done when you have one ingredient like whipped cream , egg whites , meringue , or similar which has had a lot of air whipped into it , and you are incorporating that with another ingredient . The folding motion is meant to disturb the whipped ingredient is little as possible , in order to retain the whipped in air , and thus the volume of the mixture . If you simply whisk , or beat , the air would be beaten out . Whipping the egg whites or whipped cream alone forms a foam with nothing but the air and the fat in whipped cream , or the protein network in egg whites . It us unstable much like the bubbles we used to blow as children . If you add another ingredient , like flour , it can act as an abrasive , popping the little bubbles and deflating the foam . Ingredients which can dissolve fully , and so wo n't be abrasive to the buddies , can still dissolve into the foam walls , and change their chemistry to the point where they do n't hold air any more , again collapsing them . So even though the motion still might be called whisking or whipping , the result is not the same . There are only a few ingredients , such as sugar for whipped cream or egg whites , that can dissolve into the foam walls and not disrupt it , and these ingredients are best incorporated in the original whipping phase where the air is incorporated . Even with folding , there is some volume loss ; the goal is to minimize it .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
You can rescue it by starting the process again , with an egg yolk in a bowl over a bain-marie which you whisk until it starts to thicken a little . then incorporate a little warm melted butter into the egg yolk . Once this is incorporated you can slowly start to add the split hollandaise and this should then incorporate into the new base , unsplit . There is a video <URL>
It really is an issue of personal preference . If you prefer a rocking motion , the German profile suits your style better ; if you are a push-and-slide person , the French profile is more suitable for you . It also possible to find models at various points within the range . See this <URL> thread for an in depth discussion ( with diagrams at one point ) . The original poster concludes , quite correctly in my opinion : But ... let 's keep our senses of perspective and humor . A German knife wo n't turn a good cutter into a bad one , and a French knife wo n't do the opposite . Both profiles suit the classic , European and American styles of food and knife skills . It comes down to taste and training .
French Cuisine ( other than JC ) : Patricia Wells - Bistro Cooking , At Home in Provence Paula Wolfert - The Cooking of Southwest France ( if you love ducks , that 's the book for you ) Elizabeth David - French Provincial Cooking I 've also heard great things about Dorie Greenspan 's recent Around My French Table , although reviewers note that as a contemporary French cooking has a lot of influences from around the globe ( Asia , North Africa and even USA ) . However , if you 'd like to find out what French people are likely too cook at home these days , this has to be a great resource . Spanish Cuisine Penelopa Casas - The Foods and Wines of Spain , Tapas Portuguese Jean Anderson - The Food of Portugal Italian Marcella Hazan - The Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking Mexican Rick Bayless - Authentic Mexican , Mexico One Plate At a Time Russian Anya von Bremzen - Please to the Table : The Russian Cookbook German Mimi Sheraton - The German Cookbook : A Complete Guide to Mastering Authentic German Cooking Japanese Shizuo Tsuji - Japanese Cooking : A Simple Art Chinese Irene Kuo - The Key To Chinese Cooking Barbara Tropp - The Modern Art of Chinese Cooking Thai David Thompson - Thai Food Indian Julie Sani - Classic Indian Cooking , Classic Indian Vegetarian and Grains Cooking Madhur Jaffrey - Indian Cooking , An Invitation to Indian Cooking , A Taste of India Middle-Eastern Claudia Roden - The New Book of Middle Eastern Food Greek Susanna Hoffman - The Olive and the Caper : Adventures in Greek Cooking Diane Kochilas - The Food and Wine of Greece South American Filipe Rojas-Lombardi - The Art of South-American Cooking Copeland Marks - False Tongues and Sunday Bread Elisabeth L. Ortiz - A Taste of Latin America
You do want a coarse grind for french press coffee . The key is letting the coffee steep for long enough to make a strong brew . I have good results with a 5 minute steep time . Be sure to use a timer , and compare different times to find the optimal brew . As a general rule , if you are at altitude , then you need to add time because boiling water is cooler . ( Note that I am at 5000ft , so 5 minutes may be too long for you . ) Below is a picture of the coffee chunks in a coarse grind on top of a US 5 cent coin ( 21.21 mm in diameter ) . The picture is from <URL> . EDIT : The reason to use a coarse grind for a french press is that finer grinds will get stuck in the filter and/or push their way through . This has three potential problems : 1 ) it will be harder to press down the filter , possibly leading to spillage or breakage ; 2 ) your coffee will have grinds in it ; 3 ) the coffee may become bitter , as the finer grinds that passed through the filter remain in contact with the coffee for too long .
Two problems : Hot or warm food will briefly warm up the air and therefore to some degree the food already in fridge , especially items immediately near it . Cycling temperatures does not help fresh food quality or life . Modern fan forced fridges may suffer this problem less . It is very power inefficient to do this . Just let it cool on the bench until it reaches a cooler temperature and then place it in the refrigerator . Use any of the well-documented and appropriate techniques to cool food quickly and safely if it is going to longer than 2 hours to cool .
Custard should taste eggy . This is a feature , not a bug . However , from your mention of flour , I think what you 're talking about is a souffle , not something like a creme brulee or along those lines . Would that be correct ? Edited based on subsequent clarifications : Ah . Your method is sorely lacking , and your ingredients are off . You need to temper the yolks first , you need to use yolks only , and use cream instead of milk . Here is a smaller version of what I use at work for creme brulee : - 1L 35 % cream - 11 egg yolks - 1C sugar - 1 vanilla bean , scraped Bring cream to a simmer with the vanilla seeds and pod ( you can use approx 1.5 tsp vanilla extract , pure not artificial , instead ) . While it is heating , beat the yolks and sugar together until just incorporated . Pour the cream into the eggs whisking briskly to prevent curdling . Pour mixture through a fine chinois . Skim off foam , pour into ramekins . Place ramekins in a pan , add water to 1/2way up the sides . Cover pan with foil . Bake at 275 ( convection ) or 325 ( non convection ) for approx 40 minutes , until wobbly in the centre but set . Chill until set , eat . The deflation is caused by a souffle effect coming from including the egg whites , which are never used in a custard -- custards , creme anglaise , etc , are always yolks only . When you include the whites , air will be trapped inside temporarily , and will escape/collapse when the mixture cools . If you bake until fully stiff with my method , you will get hard and rubbery custard by the time it is set in the fridge . Also , save the whites -- they freeze well -- for meringues or souffles .
All distilled spirits have no carbohydrates at all . Vodka , whisky , whatever . Only alcohol , water and aromatic compounds can ascend the spiral in a distillation process . So a standard alcohol portion ( 10g ethanol ) from a distilled spirit has 0 grams carbohydrate . Properly made table wine should n't conatin carbs either , as all the grape carbs should be fermented . Sometimes substances which are n't recognized in a food are counted towards carbohydrates , that 's what a <URL> claims is made with wine . Then there is sweet dessert wine , there you have 3-4 grams of carbs per 10 grams of ethanol ( 70-100 ml depending on wine ) , because it has more sugar . I did n't find information on fortified wine , but as they have more alcohol than sweet dessert wine and probably about as much unfermented sugar , it is about the same or somewhat less . In beer , expect something like 7-8 g carbohydrates per 200 ml ( I am assuming an average ABV of 5 % ) . A big comparison of American beers is given <URL> I ca n't help you with liqueurs , they typically are infusions of plants in distilled alcohol , but may have sugar and other stuff added . It depends on recipe .
Forever . Honey , comb present or otherwise , does not go bad . It even acts as a preservative . The date you are seeing is solely referring to the " quality " degradation . Completely edible honey has been found in 3,000 year old Egyptian tombs .
Well , first off , mold grows from spores , and your Pyrenean cheese was likely already " contaminated " with Penicillium roqueforti , Penicillium glaucum , and Penicillium candidum spores at the cheese shop ( it 'd be surprising if the cheese shop is n't covered with them ! ) . So , if you keep it in a environment habitable to them , they will grow . I suspect that you 'd get the same results even if you put them in two different plastic containers . As to its safety , if it was indeed one of the used-in-food Penicillium molds , it should be safe to eat -- you can make sheep 's milk blue cheeses ( e.g. , roquefort ) after all . But the problem is that the same humid environment that encouraged the Penicillium colonization also encourage other molds -- many of which you do n't want to eat . Also , I 'm pretty sure there are blue-green molds you do n't want to eat .
Handling raw milk is risky , and please note this information is not professional advice and is not to be taken as an authoritative response . I will , however , attempt to provide some thoughts on handling raw milk below . Selling unpasteurized milk is illegal in some countries , and official sources usually discourage the consumption of raw milk instead of offering handling instructions ( for good reason ) . The FDA has <URL> on dangers of raw milk . There are other real dangers such as <URL> with which I bouted as an 8-year old . Think of 107F fever . Also , keep in mind when you boil the raw milk you are going through a similar process as pasteurization in regards to the theory on breaking down the complex proteins and <URL> . Probably even more than pasteurization since that occurs at lower temperatures . Those theories , however , are n't proven ( yet ) as far as I know , but you do burn some of the sugars in milk if you go above 70C . The actual answers : 2 : It is better to boil first for sure . Do n't store raw milk for lengths of time . 3 : Theoretically , if you do everything right and vacuum pack the milk , it might last a couple of weeks , but the longer it stays , the more dangerous it can get . Freezing might be a better option ( we keep our pasteurized milk a couple of months in the freezer ) . 1 : I ca n't tell you how long to boil it for , though the last time I had fresh milk , it was kept simmering on the burner for about 5 minutes by the folks at the farm . It was also minutes after it was collected ( fresher is better ) . one of the safest things you can do if you 're going to have raw milk , is to know the source and get it from a farm that takes care of the conditions . If you know the farm , the farmer , and the cows conditions are safe , you 're more likely to be able to enjoy raw milk in peace .
Yes , it is perfectly safe ( as long as you continue to thaw the meat in a safe manner , as in the refrigerator ) . The marinade will not begin to have much effect until at least the outer layers of the meat are thawed , but it will not otherwise have any side effect . It may get slightly better penetration due to the changes in the texture of the meat from ice crystals , but the effect should be negligible at best . In fact , you can freeze the meat in its marinade if you so choose , and know what you are going to use it for when you thaw . It will get the benefit of marination time until the outer layers are frozen , and then again during the thawing .
Thierry , Stainless steel French presses work fine . In fact , you can construct a French press out of any chemically inert material : stainless steel , class , ceramic , high-temperature plastic , enameled copper , even marble , and it will make perfectly good coffee . I myself have a collection of porcelain and stoneware presses . What material you choose is really a matter of aesthetics and how you use the press . All of that being said , my experience is that high-quality glass carafes do not break regularly unless you drop them ( which is , admittedly , an issue ) . I 'm wondering if you bought a cheaper carafe with inferior glass , like one from Ikea . I have a Bodum which is at least 8 years old . Also , for brand name presses , you can usually buy replacement carafes , since breakage ( due to dropping ) is a frequent issue . Sometimes the replacements cost as much as a whole new press , but you should at least check it out .
No , it is not a good idea at all . It will be worse , not better . What you are missing here is that cocoa powder does not dissolve at all , never , it just disperses in water ( or milk ) . So there is no reason why methods for dissolving stuff would work with cocoa powder . You will need to use a method created for colloid-producing powders like cocoa powder , which is mostly starch with fat . This is why the answers to the other question recommend the slurry method . When you are dispersing an absorptive powder like starch , you always run a risk of clumping , and the slurry is designed to work around that problem . But starch also thickens much more under heat , so if you were to not just forego the slurry , but simply drop the cocoa powder into hot water , this would be the worst choice possible , leading to instant unbreakable clumps . The slurry method would n't work with hot water either , you 'll get clumps before you have created the slurry . So , the short answer is : if you try it , it wo n't " dissolve automatically " , it will produce an ugly undrinkable mixture of clumps .
Egg replacements are an option depending on where you live and what products are available , but from what I hear they do n't produce a similar result to eggs . Most egg-free french toast recipes use applesauce mixed with milk or yogurt and a bit of sugar for dipping , and from what I 've heard they work well .
Looks like FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ) does a formal testing <URL> . One of the easier methods : 2.4.5.3 . The Alcohol Test The test is quick and simple . It is besed on instability of the proteins when the levels of acid and/or rennet are increased and acted upon by the alcohol . Also increased levels of albumen ( colostrum milk ) and salt concentrates ( mastitis ) results in a positive test . Procedure : The test is done by mixing equal amounts of milk and 68 % of ethanol solution in a small bottle or test tube . ( 68 % Ethanol solution is prepared from 68 mls 96 % ( absolute ) alcohol and 28 mls distilled water ) . If the tested milk is of good quality , there will be no coagulation , clotting or precipitation , but it is necessary to look for small lumps . The first clotting due to acid development can first be seen at 0.21-0 .23 % Lactic acid . For routine testing 2 mls milk is mixed with 2 mls 68 % alcohol . Simplified for home use : This test is likely to be adaptable to household alcohol drinks such as vodka or similar beverages . For example the number of teaspoons of Vodka an ounce or two of milk can hold before it clots .
end question
start question
Finding the right cooking classes ?
Cooking classes are n't the only way to learn cooking - in fact , they 're a relatively expensive way to go about it , especially as it 's hard to introduce all the various techniques in one lesson . There are any number of beginner 's cook books out there that introduce basic concepts and techniques extremely well . There are masses of videos on YouTube covering just about every cooking topic and recipe * . Food blogs abound online . Check them all out , start with basic things like sauteeing onions , boiling eggs etc , and take it from there . I know this works , because it 's pretty much what I did ( though I started before I had the benefit of YouTube ) . Another good way of learning is to find a friend who does cook and help them out chopping veg etc , and have them talk you through a basic recipe ( like spaghetti bolognese ) as they go . And of course , you can always ask the wizened sages of Seasoned Advice . If you do decide to go for cooking classes , do n't discount those focusing on a specific cuisine ; food has to come from somewhere , and they all use the same basic set of techniques . There 's only so many ways you can chop and heat foodstuffs after all . I started cooking by learning how to make a decent Chinese stir fry , for example . * I realise I recommended YouTube in my answer to your other question , but it is a great resource . I do n't work for them :)
A step by step guide from the wikipedia page : <URL> reproduced here in case wikipedia changes .
I always reserve a bit of pasta water to add it to the pan . The reason is simple : if you drain your pasta and add it to the sauce the pasta will suck up all the sauce and become a bit dry . Adding the pasta water ensures that your pasta will remain moist . Also yes , it helps thickening the sauce ( this does not necessarily apply to tomato sauce ) . Now , let 's be clear : you DO NOT add your pasta water to the sauce when you are preparing the sauce . You only add it when you put your pasta in the sauce . It also helps if you do n't drain the pasta , just take it out of the boiling water ( using tongs , ofc ) and put it in your sauce while still on the stove . A quick 30-50 secs stir and that 's it . Hope this helps . PS : 1/2 cup seems like a lot to me . For two portions of pasta I usually add around 3 tablespoons .
Also does it modify or make the food more nutritious with solar cooker . Not more than any other kind of similar cooking by radiant heat , like baking . There is simply no mechanism by which that could happen . Let 's examine some claims I found from Google : from <URL> Solar cooking does n't use smoke that can contain carcinogens or microwaves that expose your food to potentially dangerous radio waves . An electric stove produces no smoke ( if you do n't burn the food ) , and natural gas produces very little smoke . Were there smoke emitted by the stove , the area around it would be covered in soot , and the flame would be yellow from the carbon ( the main component of soot and smoke ) heated to incandescence in the flame . Further , the biggest cancer risk from smoked foods is not the smoke , but the <URL> frequently used to cure them . If microwaves emit dangerous radio waves , the sun emits far more . That 's why it 's so bright , and so hot . I suppose you could be harmed by the microwave 's radio waves if you manage to turn it on without shutting the door . Then again , you can cook your hand in a solar cooker , too . Or a stove . Come to think of it , cooking involves potentially dangerous heat . Huh . Also : <URL> ( summary : no more than any other cooking ) Plus , when you cook in a solar appliance , the nutrients stay in the food and do n't leach out . That 's because you do n't use water in solar cooking . And , the temperatures in a solar oven are moderate -- around 325 F -- so nutrients are n't destroyed during cooking at a high temperature like on a grill or over an open flame . This is also true of many other methods of preparing foods : baking , grilling , microwaving , frying and , do n't involve water . 325 F is not an unusual temperature for baking , and most other methods can be performed gently , if desired . To summarize : there may be benefits of solar cooking ( a big one : it requires no fuel ) , but nutrition is not one of them . There 's no way sunlight can add more nutrition to food that was n't there to begin . Any nutritional benefits are not as much from solar cooking specifically as they are from not cooking by some less nutritional method . For example , any cooking method that is not boiling will not have the possibility of dissolving some of the food 's nutrition .
With a gratin , the idea is that the vegetables ( traditionally just potatoes ) are sliced so thinly that they cook very easily in the cream/cooking liquid while retaining some texture . If you pre-cook the vegetables , they will just disintegrate into a mush during baking .
The 30 minute cooking time is somewhat similar to my experience with mini-cheesecakes in a muffin tin , although I would recommend checking between 20 and 25 minutes with a toothpick . In my experience mini-cheesecakes were cooked until set entirely in the middle , but if your recipe is for an NY-style cheesecake that seems to wobble a bit , things might be different .
I do n't think the water change will be very significant . If you were to lay them out flat so the surfaces dried a bit , they might sear and brown more easily ( because that effect depends on moisture reduction in the first millimeter or so of the vegetable so that it can go above 212 F ) . The other thing that can be a factor is that once a vegetable is cut , some enzymes are released from the cells that can cause changes . Whether that effect will make any substantial difference depends a lot on which vegetables you are talking about .
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
In the case of most bush berries ( blueberries , raspberries , blackberries ) depth of color and ease of picking are the most indicative signs of ripeness . The berries that are on the sunniest side of the bushes will ripen first . The greater more sun exposure they receive the quicker they ripen , thus the reason that a grouping of berries even in one area will ripen at different rates . Many people say that the larger berries are sweeter but my experience is that is more anecdotal than preciese . Most fruits will be more plump with access to more water during the growing season but that does n't necessarily make them sweeter . Grapes that have to struggle generally tend to produce better wines with more concentrated flavor because the natural sugars are n't watered down by high quantities of water . To reiterate , look for deep dark color and ease of picking .
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
I 'd say no never prick the sausages if you can help it . the fat inside helps to keep them succulent and moist , and if you have a problem with the splitting and are pricking them to release the pressure as was stated by @foodrules , then I 'd say you are cooking them over too high a heat . Lower the heat , or if you are BBQing move them further from the source , then you will get to have unsplit , moist sausages . When pan frying I prefer a very low heat for a long time . This allows a delicious sticky crust to develop on the outside of the sausages . mmm ... If they were meant to be pricked why would they not come pre pricked ?
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
The one I hear most often in professional kitchens is nappe , which is the " coat the back of a spoon " test . That is the general starting point for an average sauce that you can use in a wide variety of dishes ; it is thick enough to cling to food without being stodgy . Beyond that , I 'm not familiar with other standard professional terms specifically for viscocity . Usually just thin , thick , stiff and so forth . Sometimes it is useful to talk in terms of percent reduction , as in " add 2 cups of wine and simmer until reduced by half " , although in many cases this is done more by eyeball than with precision .
You may need to add more oil , say a generous tablespoon . Also , I do n't think you should need to soak those lentils first , the pressure cooker should be more than able to take them apart without any advance soak . Also be sure to use plenty of water . At least 8 cups for 1 pound of beans .
Definitely do n't rinse the salt off . One of the nice things the salt does is pull juices to the surface of the meat -- not enough to dry things out , but enough so that when the steak hits the hot pan you have a nice protein-laden coating ( it 's called a pellicle when talking about smoked fish -- not sure about steaks ) on the outside to caramelize . If you rinse it , you 're rinsing that right off . If your steak was too salty , then just salt more lightly . You do n't need a ton , as what you get on there will melt some and mix with the juices and spread out . I think I probably use 1/4 tsp or less per side , and some of that bounces off/misses . And you wo n't lose the crust with less salt -- you wo n't even lose it with NO salt . It 's just easier to get if you use the salt to pull some juices to the surface . If you have trouble getting good salt distribution , use your fingers and sprinkle it from a little farther up -- like 8 inches from the steak . That 'll make it easier to get an even sprinkle without dousing it .
There are three major properties an edible fat ( I am assuming you are not asking about inedible oils like petroleum based products ) has that affect how it is best used : Flavor Saturation Smoke point Properties Flavor The flavor of the fat is very important . So called <URL> ( like canola oil or refined grapeseed oil , or refined peanut oil , among many others ) have very little flavor and so are suitable for almost any cooking task , as they will not interfere with or compete with the other flavors in the dish . Other oils such as sesame oil are primarily used for the delicious flavor that they provide , and are almost more of a condiment than an oil for culinary purposes . In between are oils like olive oil and coconut oil which have a distinctive flavor , but also have good qualities for cooking . Many non-oil fats used in cooking ( like butter , or bacon fat , lard , or suet ) also have distinctive flavors . Saturation The level of <URL> in the fat controls how hard the fat is at room temperature . Most oils are fairly low in saturation , and are so quite liquid even at room temperature . The major exceptions among the vegetable based lipids are coconut oil and cocoa butter . Coconut oil is solid at room temperature , and cocoa butter is actually quite hard at room temperature . Note that while you only asked about " oils " , many common cooking fats not usually called an oil are much more saturated , including butter , lard , and hydrogenated vegetable oil such as the US brand Crisco . The level of saturation can affect texture of baked goods made with a given oil , and whether the fat is suitable for the creaming method or in making laminated pastry in baking . Saturated fats also resist rancidity better over time better than non-saturated fats ( although they are still subject to rancidity ) . Smoke Point The smoke point of a fat or oil is temperature to which it can be heated before it begins smokng . Oils which have a high smoke point ( such as grapeseed oil or peanut oil among others ) are more suitable for high temperature searing , or deep frying . Applications The oil for a given application is based on the properties it has . Cooking For general cooking uses ( by which I am inferring general sauteeing , shallow frying , greasing of casserole dishes , and so on is meant ) , normally you want a fat which is either : Neutral in flavor so as not to interfere with the dish . The neutral oils are all useful for this . Complimentary in flavor , to enhance the dish . Many cuisines have traditional fats which are flavorful , but are integrated into their cuisine , such as olive oil or butter . Saturation matters less ( as the fat can be melted before greasing a pan , for example ) , and smoke point is not terribly relevant unless the application is searing , in which case you want a very high smoke point . Depending on the application and the cuisine from which a dish derives , almost any oil or fat may be used for general cooking purposes . The major exception is sesame oil , which is so flavorful that it is used as a condiment , not a fat , for culinary purposes . Deep Frying The most important aspect for deep frying is smoke point . A low smoke point oil would break down and add off flavors to the dish ( not to mention making the kitchen smoky and setting off smoke alarms ) . Secondarily , for oils that are going to be reused over time , saturated fats such as hydrogenated vegetable shortenings break down more slowly , and may be considered advantageous . Generally , flavorful oils are not indicated , as the same factors that give them good flavor often give them low smoke points . Some good oils for deep frying include peanut oil , canola oil , or hydrogenated vegetable shortening . Dressing For most dressings ( by which I infer you mean salad dressings as used in many Western style cuisines ) , the most important factors are flavor and saturation . You want an oil with good flavor ( such as olive oil ) or neutral flavor ( such as the many neutral oils like canola , refined peanut , corn oil , and so on ) . Most dressings also need an oil which is liquid at room temperature , and thus low in saturation . The major exception is the class of hot dressings made with bacon fat . Many dressings are made from olive oil , or one of the neutral oils . Baking While you did not ask about baking applications , there are two types of baking which require a fat with specific properties : cakes made by the creaming method , and laminated pastries like croissants or puff pastry . These applications require a fat which is solid at room temperature , but still plastic enough to be manipulated . Generally , only butter and hydrogenated vegetable oil are suitable . Bottom Line The oil or fat you choose for any particular purpose will be based on what is best for that application -- but a good neutral oil with a high smoke point such as refined peanut oil or canola oil can serve the vast majority of culinary purposes most of the time . See also : <URL> <URL>
I 'll try to answer this . Concerning the first recipe you linked , it does n't matter at all whether you add it first or not , since there is no extraction going on . Theres no fresh coffee , no fresh vanilla . Just extract , which of course is already extracted , so no extended wait time is needed ! There might still be room for improvement , letting flavors ' marry ' and so , but I 'd say a day should be enough . The second recipe is different . It steeps fresh coffee in alcohol , and here it 's going to need time . One month is however an extreme amount of time . Usually , hot water and coffee is steeped for seconds , and cold water and coffee is often steeped for 12 hours . Consider that alcohol is a stronger solvent than water . But if going for a true alcoholic extraction , pure is better / faster , so you should steep before adding water , and the sugar probably does n't make much difference . This said , I 'm not sure you should actually let it steep in alcohol at all , and I 'm not sure you should dilute it either . If I was doing this , I would go for water cold extraction . I 'd be concerned that alcohol would extract too much , the same as too long hot water steeping leads to bitter , sour , pungent coffee . I 'm not sure why you would want to dilute it with alot of water either . Water adds nothing to the party . Dilute it when using it instead , this leaves you free to choose each time . Perhaps you 'd like to mix it with milk instead , sometime ? Do you have a french press ? Let 1 part coursely ground coffee steep in 3 parts cold water over night . Use the filter / top to filter it , and pour it into your vodka . I 'm not completely sure , but I think 1 part extract to 4 parts vodka would be fine . Use the same ratio of sugar as in the recipes you linked , or after taste . UPDATE : I did n't completely read the second recipe before I answered . It says to boil the vodka-mixture . Sure , the alcohol does n't vanish in an hour , but I 'd still say it 's an unacceptable waste ( spirits are expensive where I 'm from ! ) . Also , the effect is the inverse of destillation , so you are left with a weaker , but sweeter , drink . I 'm not sure why it says to boil it . It says that it 's to ' thicken the liqueur ' , but they could just use less water instead . Good luck !
They say to cook until 190F because that 's the temperature at which the stuff that actually makes your slow-roasted pork moist , the collagen , fat , etc. is breaking down and coating the meat . Less than that and you 'll have all those bits still intact in your shoulder , which you do n't want . ATK explains this in their <URL> on the recipe : LOW OVEN Just like in a pot roast , cooking the pork low and slow ( 325 degrees for 5 to 6 hours ) pushes the meat well beyond its " done " mark into the 190-degree range , encouraging intramuscular fat to melt , collagen to break down and tenderize the meat , and the fat cap to render and crisp . ATK 's foot and header notes have taught me a lot over the years and I highly recommend them .
With seared Tuna the point is to create a charred crust while leaving the inside mostly raw . It 's very similar to cooking a steak rare in that the secret is a very hot pan and a short amount of time . So get your pan as hot as you can , coat the cooking surfaces of the tuna steaks with a bit of oil with a high smoke point ( corn , canola , peanut - not olive oil or walnut oil ) , then fry the tuna for as little time as you can get away with . I 'd think 45-60 seconds per side . In case you are wondering the oil forms a good heat contact with the tuna , improving conductivity , it 's not for any flavor effect . Now you may have a stove that does n't get the pan hot enough in which case it takes too long to form a crust and the inside cooks more than you like , in which case you can try : Not letting the tuna thaw completely . If it 's still a teensy bit frozen in the middle the heat from the cooking will thaw it , not cook it . You could also try it straight out of the fridge Use a cooking torch . You can also use a plumbing torch , it 's the same thing except much cheaper
Use a meat thermometer . If you overcook the chicken , it will dry out . The standard temperature for chicken breast is 160 degrees Fahrenheit .
end question
start question
Why use metal cake pan instead of silicone one ?
Would n't it have to do with insulation ? A heavy , well insulated cake pan results in less doming of the cake . If you 're baking a layer cake you want minimal doming which mean less trimming to get everything even . Also , I believe you 're supposed to get a more uniform texture since the rise is more even .
AFAIK you need to heat the pan to let the oil oxidize and polymerize ¹ so that it will form a chemically protective and non-sticking coating . If you wash your cookware with soap you will have to do it every time . For that reason some people do n't wash cast iron at all and wipe it with a clean cloth or paper towel after using . ( Burned oil is apparently not very tasty to bacteria and fungi so your pan stays relatively clean and bug-free . ) From my personal experience , meat sticks to untreated cast iron like glue , but on a well-maintained thick iron pan it glides like on Teflon . __ ¹ I do n't know if it makes any chemical sense because all references to polymerized fats I could google up were in relation to reoiling ( seasoning ) .
It comes from two different measurements , typical wine bottle size , and government alcohol regulations Typical wine bottles are 750 ml , and this divides exactly into five or six servings of 150 or 125 ml ( thanks peter ) . So many traditional wine glass serves are " exactly " 150 or 125 ml ( ~ 5 or 4 oz ) depending in which country you live in For typical government regulation , a standard drink is ; a 100 ml glass of table wine , or a 330 ml can of beer , or a 30 ml glass of straight spirits . Each of these contains on average 10 g of alcohol . So many liquor licensing guidelines recommend the serving of wine by 100 ml ( 3.5 oz ) standard drink sizes Governments will use this to produce such amazing guidelines such as : In most western countries the standard drink range is from 8 to 12 g of alcohol , except in the USA where it is super-sized to 14 g Update ; references from <URL> <URL> <URL>
Sure , it 's really not that difficult if you 've actually tasted several kinds of dashi-jiru . It 's more a matter of experience . There is decidedly a flavor to each category of dashi ; it 's not just " umami " or you would be able to get away with just throwing in a bunch of MSG into a bowl of water . But the flavor is mostly from aroma , like with other types of soup stock , since you have n't added any of the basic " tastes " other than the kombu and occasionally residual salt from the dried fish at the point the dashi is made . At home , I often make a vegetarian one with kelp and porcini , sometimes with added cabbage ; this the closest I 've been able to come to the katsuo-dashi taste without actually using fish ingredients . It 's a variation of a more standard Japanese kombu-dashi that 's made with kombu and sometimes dried shiitake , but works for a broader range of dishes than the shiitake or minimalist kombu-dashi . In practice , the main categories of dashi are these : Katsuo-dashi : Made with dried , cured skipjack tuna ( aka bonito ) , and shaved . It has a slightly bitter taste . It is best made with the addition dried kombu . Tastes richer with either thicker shavings of katsuo-bushi or just-before-cooking shaving , when possible . Niboshi-dashi : Made with small dried whole fish ( sometimes with heads removed , sometimes not , depending on the type of fish ) . Generally has a more pungent , richer flavor . There are several potential kinds of fish used and there was once substantial regional variation in this category , so the taste can vary quite a bit depending on the exact fish variety and how the fish was cured . Kombu-dashi : Made just with kombu , usually for adding a little bit of aroma and complexity to simple dishes , but rarely for soups , except for nabemono , where you 'd typically have additional seafood or meats in the hot-pot . ( I usually lump kombu-shiitake or kombu-porcini dashi in this category , but for no particular reason ) . Tori-dashi or gara-dashi : Made with chicken or other fowl bones . Except for fact that mirepoix is n't usually in the Japanese equivalent of this , so you wo n't have the celery base , it 's similar to a typical Western-style chicken broth . Ton-kotsu-dashi , made with pork bones . Generally pretty hearty and full of fat . Dashi is the analog to a soup stock , so it generally does not have added salt . Accordingly , you wo n't serve a straight dashi with an udon ; you 'd turn it into a broth , generally called " kakejiru " . This will contain added salt , shoyu , and usually some combination of sugar , sake and/or mirin . Before you put salt in it , you 'll mostly " smell " a difference . After that , you can certainly at least distinguish between katsuo and kombu dashi , and with a little practice , you can distinguish between niboshi-dashi and katsuo-dashi . For me , the difference between katsuo-dashi and the instant " hon-dashi " is usually not subtle ; the hon-dashi is a bit aggressive and harsh to my taste , but not everyone feels that way . ( For what it 's worth , I 'm as close as practical to being a vegetarian for someone who regularly dines out in Japan ) . Tonkotsu-dashi and tori-dashi are somewhat rarely used in home cooking ( though there are some exceptions in west Japan and Okinawa ) , but the taste difference is pretty obvious . I actually tend to prefer niboshi-dashi over katsuo-dashi , but it depends on the type of fish . There 's a dried sardine from Korea that I find a little harder to stomach when used in dashi . I ca n't speak to allergies , but I suppose it 's possible that different types of fish may cause some people to react differently . I suppose you 'd have to ask an allergist .
You really ca n't automate this . As you noted , each nut is cracked with a different technique and requires an individually independent amount of force . Soaking the nuts wo n't accomplish anything desirable .
Adding milk works because <URL> . It might even work better , as it also contains sugar ( lactose ) which will be eaten by your starter 's yeasts and bacteria . But it also contains other stuff , such as fats . And fats , after some time , get rancid . You probably wo n't want that taste in bread or pancakes . I would stick to water ( which quite probably you 'll find cheaper than milk ) . Do n't worry about rotten milk : your starter is already rotten . And it 's a hostile environment for most microbes . It 's very very improbable new microbes would survive there . But if they do , they 'll be quite similar to the already existing ones .
Yes , it is just fine to bake a cake in a pan like the <URL> . A pan of that type may stick a bit more than a metal pan , so you might find <URL> to be of benefit . It 's unlikely that you will have any problems at all , but read Aaronut 's answer <URL> .
Fish sauce ! I think the clam juice is probably already a substitute for fish sauce anyway , so it should make a very good substitute . ( If you look up recipes for Thai beef salad you 'll find tons of things with fish sauce , and probably not much with clam juice . ) You probably want to use less , though , maybe starting with 2-4 tablespoons , though I 've seen recipes using more . It should be fine for the dietary restriction too ; it 's just made with anchovies , not an unknown blend of seafood , but of course check the label just in case .
Metal Advantages : durable , no risk of absorbing flavours Disadvantages : may scratch certain cookware Wood Advantages : does n't scratch , looks nice Disadvantages : can wear down over time , can sometimes absorb flavours Plastic Does n't find a place in my kitchen other than a rubber spatula for baking . Silicone You did n't mention this , but I like it , because it works like rubber but can withstand high temps ( brushes , spatulas ) I think the answer really depends on what you cook . If you have a basic set ( wooden spoon , spatula that can handle heat , good ladle , chopsticks ) , you can make do without the rest as you start . You 'll quickly learn what you wish you had to make it a little easier .
Silpats and Exopats have a glass fibers ( regionally called fiberglass or glass wool , but not candy floss ) embedded in them for strength . The warning not to use them when scratched is because fiber glass does nothing good for a person when ingested , and a scratch may expose it . Some types of silicone based cookware do not have the fiberglass reinforcement , and so do not have the same issue . These are mostly the flexible baking dishes or muffin cups , but you should read the label information for the product you have .
For hard , chemical-resistant surfaces such as marble , bleach or peroxide cleaners will help . On things like counters , pots and pans , a Magic Eraser will often take off the stain . Sometimes a harsher abrasive like Comet or Barkeep 's Friend will be needed . Softer or porous materials , including cloth and many plastics often CAN NOT BE UNSTAINED . In my kitchen we treat turmeric like a dangerous chemical -- isolate , contain , and plan ahead to limit exposure . It 's just that destructive . You might as well tie-dye or bleach white any clothing you get turmeric on ; it India it is used as a dye for saris because it will semi-permanently tint cloth . You can brush off the dry powder harmessly , but when it is moistened and allowed to sit for a moment , the color is pretty much permanent . Edit : UV + peroxide : I saw a patent for removing turmeric stains from upholstery using UV light and hydrogen peroxide . You might try soaking fabrics in peroxide or Oxyclean ( which uses peroxide ) and leaving then out in the sun . Ca n't hurt right ? Edit : strategies to manage turmeric without making a mess Plan ahead where you 'll use it , and which utensils and vessels will hold it , so you do n't mess up anything you do n't need to . Re-use already turmeric-stained items so you do n't wreck anything new Mortars and pestles , tupperware , wooden and soft plastic utensils are a lost cause . At least the stain is purely cosmetic ? ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS wear an apron . Keep spilt powder dry ( it wo n't stain ) and brush it off with a paper towel into the garbage . Brushing away promptly keeps you from inadvertently spilling liquid on it , or wiping it with a wet towel during cleanup . That is , unless you want a neon-green counter and towel ? Whenever you spill something containing turmeric , promptly wipe it off , to reduce staining . Hard ceramic and porcelain are immune to staining unless the surface is rough . Try to use these for storage . Glass will stain . Stainless steel is resistant but not immune . With these strategies , I find I can use turmeric regularly without problems .
It definitely needs to cool to prevent burns - the filling is likely even above the boiling point of water , because it has so much sugar in it and has been in a hot oven . Eating it pleasantly warm is one thing , but it takes a long time to cool from over 100C/212F down to a nice warm/hot temperature somewhere around 50C/120F . ( It 's not like a cookie , which cools quickly enough so that you can ( carefully ) eat it fresh out of the oven . Pie has plenty of thermal mass . ) Besides that , most pies have a filling that will set as it cools . With a fruit pie , the sugary syrupy part will be pretty runny when it 's hot , but it 'll gel up a bit ( like a jam - plenty of fruit and sugar ) as it cools . And of course custard pies definitely need to cool to fully set !
Yes , you can temper the callets . Couverture is couverture , and the only thing that 's really different about the callets is their shape - they 're specifically intended to be melted easily , unlike the bars which they ( sort of ) expect people to eat directly . The bars are less likely to melt during shipping which is why they also sell them in that form .
A paper filter is a true " filter " in that it basically only allows liquid to pass through . This means that you will have no sediment in your coffee , if that is a concern to you . Paper filters are absorbent though , so some of the flavor compounds of the coffee will be absorbed into the paper , and some other compounds as well ( a chemical in coffee that causes a rise in cholesterol is absorbed by the paper ) . The paper can also lead to a papery flavor in your coffee . Metal filters only filter out particulates of a certain size , so you will frequently end up with a layer of " sludge " at the bottom of your pot . Metal filters should be non-reactive though , so they will not add a flavor to your coffee and will allow everything extracted from your coffee to pass through . If cholesterol is n't a concern , I 'd say try both and see which you like better . <URL> <URL>
I would recommend a combination toaster and convection oven . While I have a regular oven in my small apartment , I rarely use it in favor of saving energy ( and money on my energy bill ) by using the toaster/convection oven . I have purchased toaster oven sized muffin tins ( just a 6 muffin tin ) and a toaster oven sized roasting rack that fits two sizes of meat . My oven came with a roasting pan . The convection features have done wonderful things for my pies . You can get them big enough to make pizza in . As long as you are n't cooking for a crowd , it will work wonders . Things I 've successfully baked in there include : Muffins Cake ( did have to do it one cake at a time for a layer cake ) Pie ( the convection feature is perfect for pie ! ) Bread Cupcakes Pitas Steak ( well , it was a broiled steak recipe - the best I can do without a grill ) Chicken breasts I had a friend who rented a place that has a convection cooking setting on the microwave . We successfully used it to make muffins once , but I have n't tried it further .
There is no material which is " typically " used . The ceramic coating works on different bases , and I have seen both aluminum pans and steel pans with it . There are probably other types too . If the manufacturer wo n't tell you what a given pan is made of , there is no way for anybody else to tell .
You are asking a surprisingly lot of questions . First , to deal with this question , you need to understand " creaming " . So look <URL> and <URL> . Nothing " creams " as dramatically as granulated sugar with room temperature butter . Those particular ingredients are special for that . Brown sugar does n't accomplish nearly the creaming effect of granulated sugar , but combined with granulated sugar the combination is greater than the sum of its parts . In other words , a 50/50 mix of brown and granulated sugar can achieve nearly the leavening effect of granulated sugar only with room temperature butter . The sweetness of brown and regular sugar are pretty much equal . In the US and I think almost everywhere else , brown sugar is just granulated sugar with molasses added . Brown sugar adds the molasses flavor , and not surprisingly , some browning . To use non-sugar sweeteners , choose recipes that do n't call for <URL> , they simply wo n't work right . If you want to use a sweetener other than sugar , pick a recipe with a fat that is unsaturated ( liquid at room temperature ) , or melted butter . Also , be sure that your sweetener of choice will maintain its sweetness if baked .
Short of the danger of splashing hot liquid on you , or the standard immersion blender dangers of having it slip and hit you , there 's no additional risk with using immersion blenders on hot mixtures . Making hot soups creamy is pretty much exactly what they are designed for .
Cottage cheese will keep it consistent and match very well with the zucchini &amp; spices .
Yes , certainly you can . For that matter , you can simply grease the cookie sheet itself , although that means scrubbing after baking . Cooking times would be the same as for parchment .
end question
start question
Can any harm come of eating watermelon seeds ?
Um , no . You can even <URL> . The only common potentially dangerous seeds I know of belong to almonds , apples , apricots , peaches , plums , cherries , and other stone fruits . These contain a cyanide and sugar compound known as <URL> . When metabolized it breaks down into hydrogen cyanide ( HCN ) . In all cases the toxin is inside the seeds and will not be exposed to the body unless the seeds are chewed . Of these , the only seed commonly consumed would be the apple seed , usually inadvertently , or by daring children . It would take a large amount ( ca n't find a reliable reference - one source said 1 cup ) of well chewed seeds to poison you . Regarding almonds , only the bitter almonds have cyanide levels to be concerned about ( we eat sweet almonds ) . So , besides the apple , these all belong to the Prunus genus of plants . Cyanide is just their thing . Watermelon belongs to the Citrullus genus .
The tricky thing with flax seeds is to grind them fine enough . I 've found that my coffee grinder , for example , wo n't do the job because the seeds have a very hard coat . You can buy vacuum packed pre-ground meal and that may be a good option . Once you have ground flax seeds , they can be added in small amounts to baked goods very easily . Adding say 1/4 to 1/2 cup to a muffin , quickbread , or yeast bread will work nicely and add a nutty flavor . They can also be sprinkled on salads or grain dishes . You could add a little sea salt and use them somewhat like <URL> .
Ah , the worsening pancake debacle . I know it well . We have all been there , even after training for countless hours to make the perfect soufflé at the Culinary Institute . The pan is getting too hot . You should cool the pan with a quick rinse . This will also have the effect of resetting the surface , to get rid of any built-up grime or grease . Good luck and happy cooking !
Some <URL> produce pink or white seeds so yours sounds perfectly normal . I have had white seeds and they are as delicious as the red ones . Go for it .
Yes and no ; in smaller quantities ; no problem . If you sit down in the morning and eat bowl daily ; you will cause some serious long term issues . Raw flour is full of lectins and phytates ; which can pose a danger in higher amounts ; damage the lower GI and cause IBS ; other issues Nutrient problems can develop from the raw flour intake at higher amounts Bacteria standpoint ; no problem ; eat away . As the comment mentioned ; some fresh pasta could be harmful because of the raw egg .
I 'm totally retracting everything I said in comments . Doing this with just Jello ( no unflavored gelatin ) works just fine . The key is A LOT of Jello . After reading your question I researched the question of " How much gelatin is in a box of Jello ? " The only answer I was able to find was that a 4-serving box of Jello contains as much gelatin as a .25 oz packet of unflavored gelatin powder ( Knox ) . So , in order to test the ratio of the recipe with one 4-serving box of Jello , I added 80ml each of boiling water and vodka . Unbelievably , it worked . The firmness of the gel seems just right for the purpose . This is cherry Jello , so the color is too burgundy . Unfortunately , I had to do it again to say for sure that the flavor is OK . I had no Jello , but my next door neighbor had some sugar-free . I so fully did n't expect it to work that I did n't care that it was sugar-free even though I knew full well that aspartame at that concentration was going to be inedible ( and I was right - UGH ) . So , I went to the store today and bought an 8-serving package of Jello . This time I used strawberry flavor with real sugar . In a bizarre coincidence , I saw something else in the store that I had never before seen in the state of Alaska : Mini Watermelons . WOW , so I got one of those too . Here we go again . I mixed the double sized box of Jello with 160ml of boiling water and whisked until dissolved ( that took a couple of minutes ) , then I mixed in 160ml of vodka . As that cooled on the counter I scooped out most of the flesh from half of the watermelon . After chilling overnight , it 's all over now but the cutting . The only reason I felt the need to lean the slices up against the custard cup in that shot is that I sliced them too thin . I was trying to make up for the fact that the watermelon is tiny . Cut these suckers a good inch thick ( 2.5 cm ) and they 'll stand just fine . So , it works . Use 6 8-serving or 12 4-serving boxes of Jello to 4 cups ( 946ml ) each of boiling water and vodka . I had just enough jello/water/vodka mixture left after filling the watermelon to make a shot of that plus a shot using the same ratio of Jello/gelatin/water / vodka as in the original recipe . This stuff is so boozy , that I think the additional flavor and sugar of the all Jello version actually tastes better than the original recipe . I 'm shocked , but you do n't need unflavored gelatin to make this silly thing . EDIT : 24 Hours later , I 've got to add this . As I was carving the flesh out of the watermelon rind yesterday , I realized that I was being silly to be so thorough , especially at the ends . I really only needed the center slice for the experiment and a photograph . So just now I knocked off the Jello from one of the end pieces to eat some watermelon . That was really good ! It had absorbed some of the vodka and flavoring , but the texture was just like fresh watermelon . So if you do this , do it a day in advance and leave some of the flesh of the watermelon . You 'll thank me :) .
You can put things in the cavity to help flavor the chicken as well . A bundle of fresh herbs , garlic , an onion , fresh fruit , etc. . Stuffing from a cavity is divine though , do n't knock it until you 've tried it !
There should not be any problems with mixing alcohol as long as you do n't introduce organics . I would suggest mixing the alcohols and leaving the lemon juice and splenda out until you pour a drink . Keeping alcohol cool and in a dark place . As for indefinitely , no . The amount of time it stays good is dependent on the amount of air in the bottle . Glass is always preferred if possible .
The fat in your dough started to soften/melt - especially if you have a hot oven running in the kitchen . Keep your dough cold in the fridge between batches . See <URL> for more details on the issue in general , but for your situation , keep it cold between batches . You seem to have started correctly , which is good - you just have to keep it going right .
When you cut any food you expose the cut surface to oxygen , which causes chemical changes due to oxidation . You also expose the cut surface to microbes and organisms which break down food . Both of these will impact the quality of cut meat or fish , so yes a filet cut from a whole fish just before cooking would be fresher and better quality than one cut some time before . The effect is not great , however . If you had a whole fish and cut one filet from it the day before , then cut the other filet just before cooking both identically I doubt you would be able to tell any difference between the two . To me the reasons for buying a whole fish as opposed to filets is cost and choice . A whole fish is easier to judge for quality than a filet , you can see whether the eyes are cloudy or clear , for instance . Buying a whole fish is cheaper than buying the filets off of it because it 's much less work for the seller , so you can save some cash doing it yourself . However , fileting a fish is not that easy . It 's perfectly do-able at home and there 's loads of how-to videos but it 's still pretty involved and hard to do that well without lots of practice . It 's also messy time consuming , so when you buy filets it 's for the convenience of not having to do it yourself . The important thing is to make sure it 's fresh whether it 's whole or already prepped .
Texture is the main reason , but if you 're going to be blending the sauce , there can be off-flavors from cracking open the seeds . Even if you do n't blend it , they can be these slippery little things that I never much liked growing up . To reduce the amount of waste , you can : cook the sauce , then put it through a food mill to strip out the seeds and skins , thus keeping you from wasting the gel around the seeds . freeze the peeled skins , to save for when you 're next going to be making vegetable stock . collect the seeds and gel , then put it into a muslin bag and hang to let drip to extract ' tomato water ' . ( you typically use crushed tomatoes for this ... I do n't know for sure if the gel will go through the muslin ) . Tomato water is strange as it gives good tomato flavor , without the red color .
This is not yogurt per definition , you are making a fresh cheese . You can actually use other types of milk for such a cheese , but the mouthfeel and taste will be very different and wo n't be as similar to yogurt . There is a large class of acid-curdled cheeses , including paneer , tvorog , quark and many others . I do n't know if yours has a specific name . I know that there are people who for some reason ca n't tell the difference in taste betwen quark and yogurt . But it is still cheese , even if it tastes similar to yogurt .
If cooled and stored properly ( minimize air space in the container ) , most soups will should last in the refrigerator up to 5 days . Do you really want to be eating the same soup that long ? I would suggest dividing your soups into smaller sized containers and freezing it so you have a wide selection available at any given time . Depending on the ingredients most soups can be succesfully frozen for long term storage . Dairy based items are more likely to curdle/separate after thawing so you 'd be better to add the cream/milk when you 're reheating it . Chunks of potato or pasta are likely to break up a bit and have a more mealy consistency so it would also be better to leave the potato out and add to it and cook when reheating .
From : <URL> Can sizes change over time , important if you are adapting an older recipe . Prior to 1980 's ) , # 303 was the popular size for most fruits and vegetables. ; No. 303 = 16-17 oz . ( 1 lb.-1 lb.-1 oz . ) = 2 cups = 4 servings ; Principal size for fruits and vegetables . Also some meat products , ready-to-serve soups , specialties . Tomato paste has , as far as I know , always come in size 1/2 ( 6 ounce ) cans , at least since I began using it , starting in the mid 1960s . Think this is what you are looking for . There are lots of information bits on line , search ; ' can sizes ' . cheers
According to the Wikipedia article , the following is a likely story ( or something similar to it , anyway ) but may not be exactly right : The very beginning of this youtube video of Alton Brown 's Good Eats explains it rather well : <URL> Essentially , it was created by a monk as a reward for children who did their daily prayers . The shape looks somewhat like a person folding their arms across their chest , which is an older way to pray . There is also the possibility that the loops make it practical to hang on sticks , more for display than for keeping the food safe . <URL>
Can you get leached iron from cast iron ? Yes Is it consistent in the amount that you get ? No Is it dependent on the food in the pan ? Yes How much ? <URL> . More liquid , acidic foods leach more . How long its in the pan also plays a role . 3 oz of spaghetti sauce could leach as much as 5mg - that 's almost 1/3 of the <URL> . So you can cook with cast iron to get more iron , but it will vary wildly on what you cook in it . It will also likely increase/decrease based on how well the pan is or is n't seasoned .
Have n't tried it but here : <URL> The link suggests the following technique : Vacuum seal pieces of watermelon ( if you do n't have one , just put it in a ziploc bag and take out as much as the air as possible ) Freeze it overnight Take it out and thaw
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
It definitely needs to cool to prevent burns - the filling is likely even above the boiling point of water , because it has so much sugar in it and has been in a hot oven . Eating it pleasantly warm is one thing , but it takes a long time to cool from over 100C/212F down to a nice warm/hot temperature somewhere around 50C/120F . ( It 's not like a cookie , which cools quickly enough so that you can ( carefully ) eat it fresh out of the oven . Pie has plenty of thermal mass . ) Besides that , most pies have a filling that will set as it cools . With a fruit pie , the sugary syrupy part will be pretty runny when it 's hot , but it 'll gel up a bit ( like a jam - plenty of fruit and sugar ) as it cools . And of course custard pies definitely need to cool to fully set !
I usually let it soak overnight , though it is n't necessary to soak that long . You should soak it till it forms a paste/gel like consistency and it would take at least 2-3 hours , though <URL> claims under ten minutes ( time might vary depending on the batch of the seeds ) . You could also soak it in any juice or fruit extract as well . Additionally , you can also use it in its raw form without soaking , the way one would use poppy/sesame seeds .
end question
start question
Why use liquid nitrogen to make ice cream ?
Ice cream is an emulsion and in it , you have air , fat , and ice . The smaller the ice crystals , the smoother the icecream and better chance of achieving a velvety , creamy , smooth texture . The flavor is also elevated given the smaller crystals . Put it in the freezer , and ice crystals start to grow bigger and you lose the benefits . Also , colder temperature inhibits the taste buds ability to pick up sweetness . At liquid nitro cooled temperatures , you can get an explosion of flavour as the icecream warms up and melts in your mouth and the taste buds start to pick up on sweetness . Finally , aside from a show , it 's much much faster to make icecream with LN2 than in a regular machine . Seconds versus 30-45minutes . There are hazardous issues with liquid nitrogen and handling . As a starting point , look into <URL> .
Those single serving ' creamers ' have been manufactured using Ultra High Temperature ( UHT ) processing . According to <URL> ( the most reliable information source in the multiverse ! ) , milk treated by UHT has an unopened shelf life of 6 to 9 months . The reason there is no ' best before ' date is that they are purchased in bulk by the merchant , the container for a bunch of them ( which the retail buyer will rarely see ) would have the best before date on it .
The best way ? Plan better . :) The microwave is rarely a good plan for quick defrosting , as you found out . I would suggest putting the container in warm to hot running tap water . The warmer the water is the faster it will melt , but it will also melt more unevenly - though nothing like the microwave . The important part is that the water is running , and is at least room temperature . It 's not going to be quick like a microwave , but it 'll be faster than just letting it sit . Edit I 've never tried this , but I imagine a hair dryer might work well too . It 'll just be noisier :) The concept is the same , just moving air instead of water .
No , it wo n't work . Michael 's comment explains why . Whipping cream is not just fat and water mixed , it is fat and water emulsified . This is a big difference . If you had some special reason to do this on a regular basis , you could get it to work by adding emulsifiers . You can beat any fat with water and lecithine or xanthan and get a creamy result . As far as I know , this is how plant based cream substitutes work . But if the issue is that you just do n't have whipping cream right now at home , then it is easier to go buy whipping cream than to go find emulsifiers ( I buy mine online , do n't know if there are brick-and-mortar B2C stores which sell them ) . If for some reason you absolutely ca n't do it in time , I would suggest using a different filling . Pastry cream works well with millefeulle , buttercream can work too , lightened with whipped eggwhites if necessary .
The Nordic Food Lab , founded by René Redzepi , has experimented with blood as egg substitute , full blog entry including recipes <URL> . Apparently texture-wise the substitution can be possible , but the typical bloody aftertaste is hard to mask , which might have to do with the physiological way the metallic taste is perceived . It seems especially women tend to recognize this ingredient quite easily .
Yes , actually , there are two magic ingredients : <URL> and <URL> . Guar gum is a thickener , but in small quantities can also prevent the growth of ice crystals which would cause the ice cream to harden into icicles . Xanthan gum is a stabilizer which helps keep air ( called overrun ) in the mixture . Air is generally churned into ice cream by ice cream machines , but it wo n't stay that way without the stabilizer .
Since I could see this being a cooking/food science question if you really wanted to play with this property of liquids in drinks , perhaps a quick answer is in order . This really would be quite well-suited to the physics stackexchange , though - this is a concept that 's quite describable by physics . To follow up on Sobachatina 's comment , the property you 're in fact looking for is surface tension ( which is reduced by surfactants like detergent ) . If you want to compare liquids , be they water , water + detergent , milk ( water + stuff ) , or even alcohol or oil , you just want to compare their surface tensions . Surface tension is in fact a measurable quantity , with dimensions of force per length . There are a couple of equivalent definitions : when increasing the area of the surface by a small amount , the amount of work ( energy ) required per area increase ; or when the surface is bounded by a line ( imagine a bubble film and string ) , the amount of force on that line per length . You should note that surface tension depends on the fluids on both sides of the surface . Most commonly we talk about surface tension of an arbitrary liquid against air , but surface tension against glass , plastic , or metal is commonly visible in your vessels and utensils , and surface tension between various fluids is of course visible when you try something like mixing oil and water . As for actual examples , Wikipedia has a <URL> with surface tensions of various fluids against air . Among them are a few potentially relevant for cooking : acetic acid + water ( though stronger than normal vinegar ) , ethanol + water , a very concentrated sucrose solution , and water . Note that the addition of alcohol or acetic acid substantially reduces surface tension of water ! If anyone can follow up with more data on surface tension of liquids commonly seen in cooking , I 'd be very interested ! It 's also possible to measure surface tension at home , though I 've never done it , and I 'm not sure how accurate you could get .
Yes . If you would n't drink it , do n't cook with it . Whatever it tastes like out of the bottle , it will add that to the dish . Cook with a wine you might pair with the dish ( light wines for seafood , chicken ; heavier wines for meats and stews ) . Do n't use a fruity wine unless you want your dish to have some fruit notes . Do n't use a very dry wine if you 're making a sweeter dish .
I have not tried <URL> myself , but it sounds reasonable . It involves filling a clean milk carton or juice container with water , freezing it and then bashing it against a wall to crush the ice . I guess the container has to be quite sturdy to take the beating without breaking . Could be worth a try .
Bear in mind that I 'm using an electric kettle , rather than a stove-top one . First , the advantage of a kettle is that it is quite efficient , and turns itself off once the water is boiling . This as opposed to the microwave , which only stops after a set time , rather than relying on the condition of the water . Second , a microwave can cause water to superheat , particularly in a ceramic or glass container . This means that there is a certain risk that the water will " jump out " at you once you add something to it or put a spoon in . Additionally , most kettles have more power than the average microwave , so the kettle is probably faster to boil water .
Rule of thumb , dairy in the north and coconut in southern recipes . ie korma would n't have coconut Indian yogurt is made with whole milk . As with western recipes , balancing the fat for good mouth-feel is important : yogurt can be a good choice when a larger quantity of liquid is called for . Cream works great when a finishing splash smooths out flavors without watering down Acidity is also important . Does the dish need a tangy component or a softening of acids ? A dish could use both : yogurt marinade then a bit of cream to finish . For richness and a hint of sweetness along with a wonderful aroma , coconut ca n't be beat but will be a discernable flavor in most curries . Many restaurants are making use of coconut where it is less than traditional with good results .
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
It is simply that the microwave heats primarily the water molecules , causing the bread to steam . A normal oven heats all of the molecules of the bread , and by the time the water is heavily steaming you will have pulled it out of the oven .
If the ice cream mix is setting up but tending to leave a buttery coating in your mouth the best thing would be to try cutting back on the cream and replacing it with whole milk or half &amp; half . If it 's a recipe that you 've used in another machine with great success but it does n't seem to in this one , it 's probably a case of how long the frozen bowl is staying cold . I have used the freezer bowl ice cream attachment for KitchenAid machines and have been frustrated more times than not as it does n't freeze up as it should . Too much sugar can also be a culprit in the mix not freezing quick enough . Sugar does n't freeze so a really sweet mix is going to be softer . You might try decreasing sugar content slightly ... not too much or you will end up with an icier result ( If adding fruit to ice cream , combine the chopped fruit with some sugar and cook just a little to allow the sugar to dissolve and the moisture to evaporate . The sugar soaking into the fruit will keep the fruit softer in the ice cream instead of forming icy chunks of fruit . Or , just mix in fruit preserves . ) Make sure that the mix is VERY cold , ideally chilled for several hours or overnight before it goes into the the freezer . If time is n't on your side , then quick-chill it in a metal bowl or container in an ice bath and stir frequently to help chill it throughout . The primary indicator for most ice cream freezers is that the dasher starts to sound labored in its attempt to stir the mix . Or if cranking by hand , you start to sound labored in your attempt to crank it ! Another factor that can affect freezing of ice cream ( although probably not the case in your instance since you do n't have control of the speed ) is the speed of the machine . In the case of the KitchenAid insulated bowl for freezing ice cream , they warn not to go faster than " stir " or the mix wo n't have a chance to freeze to the side of the bowl before the dasher scrapes it . I would try one of their recipes with it to see if it freezes up firm enough without turning to butter and then compare differences between your current recipe and theirs , adjusting sugar , milk to heavy cream ratio , etc. .
Yes , you can . In professional kitchens , virtually all ovens are convection , and they work just fine . You may need to reduce the heat about 25 degrees .
What you want is cream with 35 % -40 % milkfat , and no gelatine or other stabilizers for whipping . If you use a lighter cream , then it will not have the rich , creamy texture , and evenly thick consistency you seek . In fact , if you use a light enough cream , it will not thicken properly . Now we enter the murky realm of regional naming differences , trying to find the appropriate kind of cream ! In Australia , this would be called pure cream ( 35-56 % milkfat ) ... which might be the same as " cooking thickened cream . " Read the label and make sure it is just cream , not gelatin or foam stabilizers like " thickened cream " . It could also be labelled " single cream " too ( ~ 35 % milkfat ) . In America , we call it heavy cream , or heavy whipping cream , and it is defined as 35 % + milkfat , and is generally around 38 % . In the UK , <URL> I found the uses a mixture of milk and " double cream " ( cream with 48 % + milkfat ) . They mix 100 mL whole fat milk + 426 mL of double cream . The final milkfat content is somewhere around 40 % . In the rest of the EU , the same procedure appears to be the best bet , since I ca n't find clear names for heavier creams besides double cream ( which appears to be the same as the UK ) . Edit : You may also be able to get a good result using straight double cream . I 'm looking at a French recipe that uses it . The catch is , of course , that while the minimum fat content is specified , actual fat content in double cream can vary considerably , potentially giving erratic results .
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
Soft serve ice cream is soft because : It 's warmer than hard ice cream . According to <URL> , it 's generally made at about -4 C , rather than -15 C for hard ice cream . It 's also served at a higher temperature -- <URL> , compared to 5 to 7 degrees F for hard ice cream . It contains more air . The technical term for air introduced during freezing is <URL> , and it 's calculated based on the percent increase in volume of the ice cream . The more air , the fluffier and softer the mouth-feel . It usually contains <URL> than hard ice cream , which is mitigated by the soft creamy mouth-feel resulting from the warmer temperature . If you were to freeze soft ice cream , you 'd lose the advantage of item 1 . In addition , your freezer takes longer to freeze ice cream than an ice cream maker , which may result in ice crystals in the ice cream . Furthermore , once the soft ice cream chills to the freezer temperature ( usually around 0F ) , the lower fat content may decrease the perceived creaminess , because of the information in item 3 . Of course , having said all of that , I have n't tried the experiment , so I 'd be interested in hearing first hand stories .
Basically , cream whips better when it 's cold . If cream were stored warm , the advice would be to cool the cream . Since it 's already cold , the advice is to cool the equipment ( as warm equipment will increase the temp of the cream ) . Mild science : the temperature effects the size of the bubbles that form , how fat clings to itself , whipping time , and overrun ( air cell structure / air phase volume ) . In other words how light and fluffy it will get and how long it is likely to stay that way . Warning , heavy science from <URL> : The effects of whipping temperature ( 5 to 15 ° C ) on the whipping ( whipping time and overrun ) and rheological properties of whipped cream were studied . Fat globule aggregation ( aggregation ratio of fat globules and serum viscosity ) and air bubble factors ( overrun , diameter , and surface area ) were measured to investigate the mechanism of whipping . Whipping time , overrun , and bubble diameters decreased with increasing temperature , with the exception of bubble size at 15 ° C . The aggregation ratio of fat globules tended to increase with increasing temperature . Changes in hardness and bubble size during storage were relatively small at higher temperatures ( 12.5 and 15 ° C ) . Changes in overrun during storage were relatively small in the middle temperature range ( 7.5 to 12.5 ° C ) . From the results , the temperature range of 7.5 to 12.5 ° C is recommended for making whipped creams with a good texture , and a specific temperature should be decided when taking into account the preferred overrun . The correlation between the whipped cream strain hardness and serum viscosity was high ( R2 = 0.906 ) and persisted throughout the temperature range tested ( 5 to 15 ° C ) . A similar result was obtained at a different whipping speed ( 140rpm ) . The multiple regression analysis in the range of 5 to 12.5 ° C indicated a high correlation ( R2 = 0.946 ) in which a dependent variable was the storage modulus of whipped cream and independent variables were bubble surface area and serum viscosity . Therefore , fat aggregation and air bubble properties are important factors in the development of cream hardness . The results of this study suggest that whipping temperature influences fat globule aggregation and the properties of air bubbles in whipped cream , which alters its rheological properties .
I think it all got too hot , but there might be other problems . Did you mix the cornstarch in completely ? Leaving undissolved cornstarch is a sure way to obtain ' blobs ' . Did you pour the hot milk onto the egg-mixture ? You should do that very slowly and whisk vigorously ( while trying to splash everything ) . If the eggs get too hot , they will coagulate . Did you use a double boiler ? Putting the pan on an open flame will make the bottom too hot and the eggs will coagulate . Even if you did use a double boiler , did you whisk regularly while heating ? The eggs at the bottom will become far warmer than the eggs in the center ... As rumtscho mentioned , a thermometer will be useful for monitoring the done-ness of the custard . Generally , a fully cooked custard should not exceed 80 ° C ; it begins setting at 70 ° C. Source : <URL>
end question
start question
How do I know when my wine is properly reduced ?
The goal is to evaporate alcohol and concentrate flavor . If adding wine to a mirepoix , or sofrito ... some sort of early stage aromatic vegetable ... reduce the wine almost until the pan goes dry , but not dry enough to cause sticking or burning . The flavor will be absorbed into the vegetable and you are good to go . If there is another instance of wine addition that you are considering , please specify .
As baka has said , more volatile components of the wine will be released with more wine surface exposed . Also , this not only releases aroma but also helps the wine to " breathe " and oxidize , which is why you open the red wine bottle half an hour before serving it ( so that this process starts ) , and why you might pour the wine into a decanter . This process accentuates the flavors and aromas of the wine . It is not very much necessary with younger , colder served wines ( e.g. vinho verde ) . In young , sparkling wine , a larger glass will disperse the bubbles faster , as well as warming it . This is undesireable , hence the smaller , narrower glasses . Aged white wine should behave similarly to aged red wine , although it does n't need to breathe as much .
Per the information on <URL> , there is no mention of the pan being pre-seasoned . But there is also no mention of needing to do so . From the maintenance tab on the linked page : Before you cook Remove all labels and packaging materials . Before using your new cookware , wash thoroughly in hot soapy water using a soft cloth or sponge . Dry completely . General cooking tips Prior to each use , it is recommended to add a teaspoon of cooking oil for better cooking results . Never heat an empty utensil . Be sure there is oil , butter , liquid or food before placing the cookware on the range or burner . It is not recommended to use high heat . Cooking on excessive heat can cause permanent damage to the surface and utensil . Never cut anything in the cookware or use utensils with sharp edges as to avoid damaging the surface . Add salt to water only after is has come to a boil . Salt grain deposit on the cookware bottom will attack the metal as the heat melts it down . There is also other information about cleaning and oven use . All said , I do n't follow a set rule about seasoning non-stick cookware even though I 've often seen it recommended . But when I have heated oil in a non-stick pan it does seem to do better afterwards , especially with older pans . And I always hand wash non-stick cookware . To sum up , I do n't see how you could cause any harm by pre-seasoning the pan and occasionally reseasoning , even if it does n't need it . But this is based on my experience and I have n't used this brand . The only other thing I can suggest is to contact the company and see what they say . Since they do n't mention pre-seasoning , I suspect they will say it is n't necessary . If you do contact them , we 'd be interested in what you find out . And welcome to Seasoned Advice ! EDIT : I was assuming that the OP knew about seasoning a non-stick pan , as the question is about how to tell if a non-stick pan is pre-seasoned when new . To be very clear , seasoning a non-stick pan is NOT the same thing as seasoning a cast iron or other bare metal pan . Should you ( or anyone ) decide to season a non-stick pan , please make sure to follow a recommended procedure .
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
A souffle by any other name will fall as quick . ( Sorry , I could n't resist ) . But this is absolutely normal , there is nothing in this recipe to support the structural integrity of cooling air bubbles . You can reduce the amount of rising , which will result in a smaller collapse . To do this , beat the mixture less ( prepare it by hand instead with a mixer to be sure ) and ensure slower , more even heating in the oven . But of course , the collapse will occur . There is some advice floating around which is supposed to reduce the falling rate of souffles . You could try following it even if your recipe does n't involve whipping the eggwhites . It involves things like not crowding the oven and carefully buttering the form , usually with layers of butter and sugar ( or parmesan for savory souffles ) . It wo n't hurt to use them . But do n't expect a risen pudding after it has cooled . Update . I read Charlotte Farley 's answer and thought that it would be great if it works . I had a hunch that it might not , but it would be so awesome if it helps ! So I made the experiment . I made the bread pudding exactly per the recipe given here . I did n't separate the eggs , but took care to whip them for a long time before adding the milk , to ensure a good rise . I baked it in silicon muffin cups , exactly 5 gram of bread and 45 gram of egg mixture per cup . After 45 min at 150 ° C , I quickly removed three cups from the oven and left the remaining three cups there for another 45 min . As a control , I used a simple cheese souffle ( basically a mornay sauche with whipped egg whites ) and repeated the procedures , using 50 g mixture per cup and baking for 20 min at 175 ° C . The results : These are the bread puddings . The directly removed are in the lower row , the ones which remained in the oven are in the upper row . I did n't measure them , but they are nearly the same height . In the oven , all had risen maybe 1 cm over the cup edges , so they all lost ~ 50 % of their oven height . The first group collapsed the second they were out of the oven , the others deflated slowly in the oven , but were already low when I took them out . I weighed both groups after cooling . The " direct from the oven group " weighed 116 g , or 11.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . The " left in oven group " weighed 101 g , or 16.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . When I tried them , I liked the moister ones better , but both groups were OK . Neither was unacceptably dry or egg-white-rubbery . These are the cheese soufflés . They rose more in the oven , to maybe 2.5-3 cm above the cup edges . Again , directly removed ones are in the bottom row , the oven cooled ones are in the top row . There is no visible difference , they all seem deflated to the same size . The weight results are similar as in the bread pudding case : 122 g for the three directly removed souffles , 109 g for the oven cooled ones . Again , I felt that the moister ones tasted better , but this could be a subjective preference . I would n't consider the oven-cooled ones " bad " on their own . Conclusion : The slow oven cooling does n't work :( Estimated 5000 calories worth of egg dishes plus a small package of American bread ( opened ) available for free , collect in person only .
The oil needs to be slowly added to the egg , vinegar , and lemon juice base while being vigorously whisked . Only add more when the previous amount has been fully incorporated . I generally add the oil 1/4 cup at a time , dripping it very slowly into the base . Once the initial 1/4 cup has been added and emulsified it becomes a lot easier to incorporate the rest , and you can add it slightly faster , but still 1/4 cup at a time . This is vastly simpler in a food processor . I have a <URL> which has a little white pusher piece with a drip-hole in it . You can simply add the oil into this 1/4 cup at a time , it will slowly drip into the mix . Use the metal blade attachment .
There are two safe ways to defrost , one more rapid than the other . First method is to defrost in the refrigerator . This keeps temperature below 40 degrees F , in the safe zone . This will , also , take a while . Second method is to defrost in the sink under cold running water . The water does n't have to run rapidly , but it should change regularly . This will defrost the fish more rapidly than in the air ( water is a better conductor of heat than air ) and will keep the fish in the danger zone for the shortest period of time . If you are not going to cook it immediately , then return to the refrigerator . If you are deep frying , there are some techniques that will allow you to go direct from frozen to fried , but that is generally done in a professional kitchen where they have powerful fryers that can take the temperature hit and come back strong .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
Pickle recipes meant for longer-term storage will include instructions for sealing the jars . While some recipes may have you use hot jars and hot brine that will result in a fairly reliable seal ratio ( meaning most of the jars will properly seal ) , other recipes will have you put the filled and closed jars in a boiling water bath to be processed for a specific amount of time . I 've found this method to yield an even higher ratio of properly sealed jars . In either scenario , the sign of a sealed jar ( assuming you are using canning jars with a lid and ring system ) is an indented dome on the lid . Jars that do not seal properly will still have a protruding dome . Most recipes will have all the specific information you need to make pickles including the shelf life of sealed jars . The Ball canning jar company has a good website : <URL> Best of luck - I hope your pickles are a tasty success !
These products are called thickeners . Gum Arabic is often used for this as well as karageenan , xanthan gum , sometimes corn starch or potato starch . You have to experiment with the different thickeners so you get the consistency you want .
I 've never done anything in particular . I just do n't use soap on it .
That advice is n't " wrong " and millions of people keep keep fish sauce in a cabinet for decades . Regarding safety , it 's generally OK to store fish sauce at room temperature for years , but that is n't recommended by government worrywarts for best quality . <URL> . Pathogens run in fear faced with this stuff , but it can ( rarely ) develop " offness " . It is conservative to even bring up this article from <URL> : The fish-sauce-making process is carefully controlled to prevent the growth of dangerous bacteria . First , whole , tiny fish ( predominantly anchovies ) are combined with salt in roughly a three-to-one ratio . The mixture is then tossed into either concrete or wooden tanks . Enzymes contained within the cells of the fish flesh degrade the proteins , fats , and other molecules into amino acids ( compounds responsible for the deeply savory flavor in fish sauce ) , eventually liquifying the solid tissue . The salt accelerates this process , known as protein hydrolysis , by causing the fish cells to open up , which releases the enzymes . The briny conditions in the tank keep most microbes and all pathogens at bay , but some harmless , extremely salt-tolerant bacteria , known as halophilic bacteria , survive . These occur naturally in the guts , mouth , and skin of the decomposing anchovies . They too break down the fish proteins , yielding various acids , alcohols , and nitrogen compounds that give fish sauce its characteristic cheesy , meaty flavors . But by the end of fish sauce 's six - to twelve-month fermentation period , the salt has managed to kill even the hardiest halophilic bacteria . At this point , the clear , amber liquid in the tanks is filtered , and any sediment is discarded . The fermentation process does such a good job of killing off bacteria that no pasteurization is required . There is no legal requirement in the U.S. for fish sauce to bear an expiration date , but most manufacturers put dates on the label anyway , since people are more inclined to trust foods that tell us when they should be discarded . These dates tend to be three to four years from the date of manufacture , which is actually on the conservative side in light of industry guidelines . The Handbook of Indigenous Fermented Foods in the ASCA Countries ( published by the Association for Science Cooperation in Asia , a science-policy organization ) ascribes to the condiment a shelf life of five years . This is is n't to say fish sauce will always be good , either before or after the use-by date ( though you should always refrigerate it after opening ) . It can deteriorate in quality over an extended period of time due to chemical reactions , resulting in color changes or the development of " off " flavors . On rare occasions mold or yeast might develop on the inside surface or lip of the bottle where there 's excess moisture and less salt . These growths are usually innocuous , but as with any food , if it looks strange , smells strange , or tastes strange , you should throw it out . So , grudgingly , I say throw this batch out 'cause it 's fuzzy . But do n't lose any sleep over it . Next time buy a bottle that you 're likely to use within a couple of years and keep it in the fridge after opening .
Salt is added at the beginning , because it takes long time to dissolve . Also , it 's maybe less important for bolognese , but you want your veggies to get infused with salty water , the taste is different from bland vegetables swimming in water salted late . Last but not least , salt 's chemical properties are important for the cooking of some dishes . The stuff which depends on volatile aroma molecules ( practically all fresh herbs ) is added at the end , after the sauce ( or stew ) is removed from the heat , because lots of the compounds are destroyed by heat , and while the flavour is still discernible , it is diminished . On the other hand , if you are using dried herbs , their most fragile molecules have long since disappeared in the air . The flavours which remain in the dried leaves are sturdier and not easily loosened from the plant matter . So by adding dried herbs early enough to allow for some simmering , you can leach more of these out of the leaf ( you are practically steeping it in the sauce ) . But if you cook them for too long , even these molecules can get damaged . Plus , there were some herbs which release unpleasantly bitter alkaloids after too long a steeping ( I do n't remember if your three are among those , but I would suspect the basil may be , as it is prone to producing off-tastes ) . So add them ~ 5 minutes before turning the heat off . Spices are a bit of a boundary case . Although dried spices do n't taste the same as fresh ones , grinding them still releases volatile molecules . So I tend to add them at the end , like fresh herbs , and I 'll advise you to do so too ( using peppercorns in a grinder ) . If I use spices which were bought pre-powdered , I throw them in earlier or together with the dried herbs .
If you insist on using a damp cloth , you have to make it wet again and again , so this is quite cumbersome especially with long proofing times . Much easier is plastic wrap , which does n't prevent the dough from rising if you use it to cover a sufficiently large bowl . Tightly wrapping the dough itself obviously wo n't work . My prefered method for these very long raises is a large food-safe plastic container with a lid . It does n't have to be super-airtight and as I usually do a round of " stretch and fold " or quick punchdown every 12-24 hours I never had a problem with dried or overflowing dough .
Clarified butter is rather simple to make . It 's simply butter that has had the milk solids and water removed . It does last longer than regular butter , and can be stored for several weeks in the refrigerator . It also has a higher smoke point than regular butter , so you can use it when higher temperatures are called for without it smoking or burning . Slowly melt your butter and let it sit for a bit to separate Skim off the foam from the top Gently pour the butter off of the milk solids which have settled You 'll be left with about 75 % of what you started with . I 'm not sure what you mean by huge batch , but I usually make about a sticks worth at a time , as needed .
An avocado will keep a few days in the refrigerator after it has been cut . The cut portion will turn brown/black due to oxidation , you can just cut that off , it is not harmful . From <URL> to keep the avocado from discoloring sprinkle it with lemon/lime juice or vinegar and wrap tightly in plastic wrap or place in an airtight container . From <URL> storing a cut avocado with a piece of cut onion in an airtight container will stop the oxidation . I do n't know why this is , but I suspect that it has to do with the sulfur compounds that the onion releases . This is the same sulfur that makes you cry when you chop onions , but it is also used as a preservative . The onion 's smell and taste do n't seem to transfer to the avocado , as far as I can tell . But I 'm not overly sensitive to onions , so you may want to check this out first if you are . When not to use , from WebMD if your avocado 's flesh has become very dark or the flesh has become stringy you should avoid eating it , particularly if there is any sign of mold . Avocados have a very high fat content , so they oxidize and become rancid very quickly at room temperature and will need to be thrown away .
There 's no point drinking wine and not enjoying it . The point of wine with food is that , if you enjoy the wine and enjoy the food , you 'll enjoy both together even more . But if you do n't enjoy the wine , you 'll enjoy the food less if you force yourself to drink wine with it . Is there anything you do like about wine ? If not , I suggest you ignore it for the time being . If you 're curious , you 'll come back to it in your own time , whenever you 're ready . If you 're not , it does n't matter : there 's nothing wrong with not liking wine . If there is something you like about wine , for example , the aroma or some component of the taste , I suggest you keep trying it but do n't force yourself . Taste it every now and again and , if you still do n't like it , wait until you want to try it again . This is what I did with whisky . As a teenager / young adult , I really liked the smell of whisky but did n't like the taste -- in hindsight , it was probably the alcohol content that was the problem . Every now and again I 'd have a taste from my father 's glass or from somebody I was drinking with at a bar . For a long time , I did n't like it but I still liked the aroma so I kept trying a couple of times a year . Eventually , I started drinking it . A few things to bear in mind about wine . Avoid cheap wine and do n't waste your money on expensive wine that you wo n't appreciate . Low price is n't a guarantee of low quality and high price is n't a guarantee of high quality but it 's worth spending , say , twice the price of the cheapest bottle if you 're at the supermarket . That 's likely to lift you into wines that you 're disliking because you dislike wine , rather than because they 're bad . Red wine , poured straight from the bottle often tastes rather harsh . Open the bottle half an hour or so before you want to drink it and let it sit in the glass for a couple of minutes before you drink . Wines ( especially red ) with just one or two grape varieties named on the bottle usually have simpler , less challenging tastes . Sweeter white wines will probably be more appealing to you than drier ones . Try something like a sauvignon blanc or unoaked chardonnay , rather than , say , a pinot gris/pinot grigio . Riesling can be anywhere from super-sweet to mouth-puckeringly dry depending on what the winemaker did . Supermarkets in the UK sell quarter-bottles of decent-but-not-amazing wine . That 's a good way to try lots of different styles without having to spend a lot of money or feeling that you 're wasting a whole bottle if you do n't like it . This suggestion is heresy but ... consider chilling red wine . Chilling tends to make harsher flavours less noticeable . If you find you like it chilled , try chilling it less . Ask a wine merchant . Specialist wine merchants love to talk about wine . Do n't be embarrassed to walk into one of their stores and say , " Hi . I like the idea of wine but I 've never found a wine I like drinking . " Their eyes will light up because this is a challenge to them to use their skills to make a customer really happy . If you buy a couple of bottles on their recommendations , you 'll be their favourite customer of the day , I guarantee . Doubly so if you go back a week later after liking what you bought . Go for it !
From experience I 'd say those 6 months do n't stack . You could have 6 months in the jar , or 6 months in the freezer - very soon after defrosting the flavour would die out . If you have to freeze I would recommend using it straight from the freezer , if you can avoid it clumping . The overall potency is degrading from the moment it 's picked ! But realistically from the moment of grinding , as the oils in the ingredient are slowly seeping and evaporating out of the grain . Why not make smaller batches more regularly ? That 's what I do for garam masala , mixing a new batch every 3 months or so . I would always recommend oven drying spices / peppers very low for a long time - say 2 - 3 hours at 100C ( 212F ) . Wet ingredients could be dried in the same way , else added at the time you are going to cook with them .
According to <URL> , you can you tell if your yogurt is ready by " gently jiggling one of the containers ... the yogurt will not move if it is ready and you can take it from the yogurt maker and put it in the refrigerator then . Or you can wait and let it get more tart for 12 hours or more . " It also gives more specific instructions about the three types of yogurt makers , so you can see which one you own and follow more recommendations based on that .
end question
start question
Should I wait until the oil smokes when frying eggs ?
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
After much experimentation , I have found that the keys to avoiding the off-white foam/scum are : Use eggs that are as fresh as possible , as this greatly reduces the amount of scum . Use white vinegar instead of malt vinegar , as this avoids discolouring the scum , which makes it more visible .
If there really is fat inside the steak , it is terribly undercooked . But this is unlikely to happen . Animal fat is a saturated fat which melts somewhere around 35 ° C . If your steak has n't reached 35 ° C internal temperature , it will be very visibly raw on the inside , with no apparent difference from the cold steak from the fridge . It will still be oozing blood-like liquid even after resting for over 10 minutes , and the liquid will be thicker than the juices of cooked steak . It will be deep red and slimy , and cold to the touch . Even the rarest steak you can buy is taken above 40 ° C . But not everything white inside meat is fat . Connective tissue/fascia are white too . They are not really lump-shaped , but I do n't know how precise your description is . Try cutting through one of the lumps . If it is tough and rubberlike , it is connective tissue ( and if there is lots of it , your meat is not meant for roasting , but for a slow cooking method ) . If the knife goes easier through the lump than through the meat , it is fat , and your cooking method is seriously wrong . In any case , the best way to know when steak is done is to use a meat thermometer . Stop when it shows around 61 ° C , the remaining heat transfer after removing from the heat will give you a medium steak .
It mostly depends on the heat used . If you are cooking at a high enough heat that vegetables and thinly-sliced meats ( if using ) are cooked through in only a few minutes then it matches with the term generally used as " <URL> " . In this heat , if you stop stirring even for a moment , pretty much , the food at the hottest part of the pan ( at the base , near the flame ) will start to burn . It needs to be in motion constantly . That 's the stir part of the stir-fry -- constant motion up the curved sides where it is cooler and letting other parts of the food go to the bottom to the heat and around and around . A full dish of meat , veg , noodles , etc can be completely cooked start to finish in just about 5 minutes . <URL> demonstrates stir-frying baby bok choy in 2 1/2 minutes of cooking time for the veg , <URL> for 2 minutes , and <URL> at 3-5 minutes . <URL> should also be at a fairly high heat and generally with less oil ( although stir-frying does n't use a lot of oil either , usually ) . The heat is lower than what is implied by stir-fry . With sautéing you are still generally keeping things moving , but it does n't need to be quite as frantic . You can let things stop a moment , and it can help to let them start to brown and caramelize . To demonstrate , <URL> for sautéed baby bok choy cooks them for 7 minutes , <URL> for 9-11 minutes , <URL> cooking it for 4 minutes . The fastest of these is twice as slow as most of the the stir-fry or about the same as the slowest stir-fry . The slowest of these sauté recipes is nearly 3-5 times as slow as the stir-fry with fairly similar ingredients , especially similar to the slowest of the stir-fry recipes . But to be fair , <URL> I was , strictly speaking , abusing the term sautéing by conflating it with even more moderate temperatures ( which are more properly simply called " pan frying " ) . A kadai is a good implement to use for stir-frying , but a kadai can also be used for cooking at a slightly lower temperature . Simply using a kadai does not 100 % determine the end result will be either a stir-fry or a sauté or a gentle fry , or even deep-frying . It 's a versatile vessel . :-)
<URL> by Janet Bailey says : Keep stored eggs covered . Eggs readily absorb odors from , and lose moisture to , the air circulating in the refrigerator . The best container for them is the carton you bought them in . Do n't use the open egg racks in the door of the refrigerator . The rack is too warm and unprotected . Store eggs with their broad , rounded ends up . This position helps the chalaza keep the yolk centered in the white , away from the air pocket where it might encounter unfriendly bacteria . The rounded end of the egg is also less likely to break when accidentally bumped . Do n't wash eggs before you store them . If they have been coated in oil , you would be washing away that valuable protection .
1 - Oil is separated in curries normally after you have cooked spices or sauces for ~ 10-15 mins . You can tell by seeing " bubbles " appearing and the oil by making a thin layer on top of your sauces/curry . 2 - It varies , but normally after 10-15 mins the oil separates from your curry . 3 - Normally after cooking for 10-15 mins most of the water dries up which causes the curry ( mostly made of thick sauces ) to separate from the oil . 4 - It 's always good to let the oil separate from your curry because of two things :
Transfer of heat . First you need a hot pan ( sprinkle some drops of water on the pan , it should sizzle ) . Then you add a drop of oil and swirl it around . When the oil forms a striated pattern , it 's hot . Then you put the meat in . The hot oil helps to transfer heat from the bottom of the pan to the meat . You only need a spoonful of oil .
Yes , I think you can . The page you link does list the oil as " food grade " , and specifies no added solvents ... so there 's probably nothing dangerous in the jar and it can be safely used for cooking . In general , though , you usually should n't equate cosmetic treatments and edible substances , even if some of the ingredients are the same ( soaps often do this , list all food sounding ingredients until a second glance reveals it , well , soap ) , or even if the base substance is the same but may have undergone different processes ( like coconut oil or cocoa butter ) . If the coconut oil had been processed with some non-food grade solvents or processes , it might be perfectly safe for topical application , and still be quite dangerous to consume . If you are questioning whether a substance might be an ingredient as well as a cosmetic treatment , look up the information , and I mean brand-specific product page , and see if it mentions " food grade " - that means exactly the bit of information you 're looking for , that it is of a high enough quality that it passes the tests they use for product meant to be eaten .
Ehow has an article on the specific dangers non-stick coatings can cause to humans and pets including fumes from heating a pan to too high a temperature , which I was unaware of . Of course , if the coating is flaking or fuzzy-looking , actual coating material , which is a carcinogen , can leach into the food cooked in the pan . Link to the Ehow article : <URL>
I would leave the peel in . It can continue to improve the flavor , and makes it look like citrus sugar instead of just plain sugar ( important for a gift ) . Be sure to include a note that it should be used within a few weeks , though .
I 've never been one to keep track of cooking times with meats , since it will vary wildly with meat thickness , burner strength and type , phase of the moon , etc. . Edit : I forgot to answer " how to go about searing " . I sear chicken like I sear beef : hard and fast . The point is to get that <URL> going to add some deliciousness and texture ( not to " seal in flavor " , which is hogwash ) . Pat the chicken dry with paper towels . Put just enough oil in a heavy-bottomed pan to cover the bottom . Put the pan over medium-high heat and get it good and hot - the oil may just start showing wisps of smoke . Lay the chicken in the pan carefully , being sure to start at the edge closest to you and lay it down away from you . This will prevent you from getting splashed with hot oil . Let it cook for 2-4 minutes until you get a nice sear on it . Flip , ( the chicken , not you ) again being careful to flip away from you . Now if the breast is thin enough ( <URL> ) , you can just let it finish in the pan . Often , though , after flipping I 'll pop the whole pan into a 400F oven and finish it in there . Again , times will vary , but I would start checking it after 5 minutes . The most accurate way to determine doneness of any meat is with an instant-read thermometer . I love my <URL> , but it 's a bit pricey . You can find inexpensive dial or digital ones at your local grocery . The <URL> is 165F . Normally , I poke my chicken with a finger to determine doneness , then double-check it by cutting it open . Fully-cooked chicken is white all the way through , and the juices run clear when you cut into it . Under-cooked chicken is pink , and the juices run pink as well . I get fresh chicken from a local farm , so I cook it until it is barely done to be sure it stays moist and delicious . For supermarket chicken I would err on the side of completely done , since you have no idea where the meat came from . For reference , fully cooked chicken : Under cooked chicken : Extremely under cooked chicken :
Preheat the jars with hot tap water , and then just dump them in the boiling water ( with tongs or other appropriate utensil , of course ) .
Cold , it gives the inside more time to come up to the same temperature with the outside , for more even cooking .
If you need the eggs raw , you could submerge them in boiling water for 5 sec . That would kill any bacteria on the shell and the egg would still be raw inside . Put the eggs in cold water right away to prevent the egg from heating up by the residual heat in the shell . I have tried this many times and the eggs do not cook . If you are serving the eggs to very young children , pregnant women or someone who are sick , you should buy pasteurized eggs instead . But normally it 's safer to eat eggs from chickens you raise , than the ones from a factory , because they are more healthy and their immune system is well developed enough to kill the salmonella itself .
Both messes up the ratio , as you said , so you should n't use anything during kneading . You only need to use a little bit of something during shaping . With some pastries , the shaping is extensive and you get lots of the smoother worked into the dough ; this is expected and desired ( e.g. in strudel sheets ) . Properly kneaded bread dough does not stick to anything , even if it started out very wet . So , if it sticks at the beginning , just continue kneading until it stops ( I knead it between my hands then , not on a surface ) . When it is ready , it will not only stop sticking to your hands , but also pull the smear of the hand surfaces into itself , coming clean off them so you can work with it . ( You will still have to clean your hands afterwards from gunk between the fingers and on the back of your hands ) . When your dough is kneaded through , you want to form a good surface for the rising period . You can use flour , oil or water ; you 'll use so little that it does n't really matter much . Just spread a thin film on your surface , shape the boule and put it into the rising bowl . For the final rise , you want it to keep its shape when it 's put into the oven . So , when you are giving it its final shape , you can use either flour or a starch to prevent it from sticking to whatever it is rising on . I knew somebody who swore by rice flour as producing the least stickiness , but use plain wheat flour myself . You can even lay it on a bed of flour ; it is not getting pressed into it , so it wo n't absorb it and get hard . But you will have a layer of either raw or burned flour on the prepared bread . An exception would be very oil-rich breads ( at least half as much butter as flour ) . They do better when the final shaping is done in oil too . For pastries and cookies , it depends on the type of dough . If it is supposed to be a hard dough , use flour . The strudel mentioned above is made in flour . If it is supposed to be a soft or tender dough , you can try shaping without any smoothening ( for example many cookies will flow into a smooth shape during baking even if put onto the sheet as an unsightly pinched ball ) . Ugly sticky pastry doughs like pie crust can be rolled into submission if you roll them between two smooth silicone mats , but you ca n't get them very thin that way . If you need them at less than 4 mm , use flour , best in combination with the silicone . Plastic wraps also works , but you might have to use two pieces per surface when the crust gets wide . If you have a dough which really feels half-liquid in your hands , shape with flour . Corriher 's very light southern biscuits from Cookwise are a good example for such a dough .
The boiling point of most cooking oils is much higher than their smoke points . The boiling point of olive oil , for example , is around 300 ° C ( 572 ° F ) , which is hotter than the temperature of a pan on a typical residential range/cooktop . With that said , alcohols and esters which make up the flavor and fragrance of the oil will have lower boiling points and will therefore evaporate . That should not significantly alter the nutritional content of the oil . Furthermore , much of the perceived loss of oil is likely due to a combination of absorption of the oil into the items being fried , and also due to splatter . The latter can not be easily quantified due to its connection with the cooking vessel and the technique of the cook .
Milk proteins , mostly . And some sugars that have been caramelized . This is an example of what one chef I know describes as " <URL> , " and is much like what happens when you sear a steak on the grill .
Higher temperatures , as a rule , mean less absorption of oil because the force of the steam trying to escape from the food pushes against the oil . Here is a link to a scholarly <URL> discussing the mechanics of fat absorption in the production of french fries ( complete with a table of results and diagrams ) . Interestingly , the author says that potatoes deep fried at more than ten degrees Celsius below the recommended temperature of 180-185C leads to 40 % higher fat uptake . I expect pan-frying leads to a much lower total uptake of fat , but I am sure the principle is the same . ( For a fun explanation of the mechanics , here 's Alton Brown in part II of the " Man Food " episode of <URL> . Enjoy . ) Now , your question was aimed at tofu ( or some spongy equivalent ) , and you asked about the effects of flour vs no flour . I could not find any articles with data on those exact elements of your question , but I suspect the answers will all derive from the same underlying principles . In other words , as a rule , cooking at low or medium heat means that the spongy and/or dredged product will tend to absorb more fat than at high heat . So , then , why do the recipes you have seen typically call for cooking tofu on " medium " heat ? My guess is that the recipe authors found that high heat makes the outside brown too much by the time the inside is " done " to the authors ' preferences -- and perhaps a little extra oil in the tofu makes it taste better . I am not sure , however , because most of the recipes I 've seen call for searing a crust onto the tofu using medium-high heat .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
end question
start question
Is it safe to use a propane torch bought at a Hardware store ?
Propane and butane are pure alkanes . They do n't produce anything nasty when burned . The worst you could possibly get should be carbon monoxide ( and I am not even sure it can be produced in a torch , the dioxide ifs much more likely ) , but it being a gas , it wo n't stick to your food . The complex molecules you get from heating the food itself have more potential for being harmful than the combustion products of a propane butane torch . Ago yes , it is food safe . Another matter of safety is that it is easier to cause a fire with a hardware store torch , because it has more power than the kitchen ones . But a sensible adult should be able to handle the thing safely .
If the key issue is safety , I imagine the cans of the type you indicate are probably as safe as any others , assuming that you can clean them adequately . Those corners at the top are out of the reach of a bottle brush . They will have a lining to prevent them from being overly reactive . Still , I would not use them as they are going to be very difficult to clean , and you can not monitor the contents . I would recommend getting an oil dispenser specifically for the purpose , such as this type : They will let you see inside , and make it easy and clean to pour . With a funnel , you should be able to fill them easily , and they do n't have corners ( at the top ) out of reach of a bottle brush , making them easier to clean . Still , this type of dispenser is not meant for long term or bulk storage , as many oils and condiments should not be exposed to light and air ( although the dispenser minimizes air exposure , especially when it is below the fill line ) . You would use them for working amounts that you would consume in a couple of weeks . The containers tend to be made of glass , which you know is non-reactive .
My first instinct was no way , remembering that the branches and leaves contain a high amount of <URL> , which is a neurotoxin and not without risks , especially if used over a long time or while pregnant . This is the same stuff that caused absinthe to be discredited for decades . But Thuja oils typically contain 40 % α-thujon , sage ( salvia officinalis ) up to 60 % . Thuja 's pungent smell would prevent ingesting too much . So my conclusion would be : do not use for a long time or when pregnant ( most midwives caution against using sage , too , btw . ) use sparingly for health reasons , a limited amount is considered safe by health agencies world wide , <URL> for example . use very sparingly for culinary reasons , because the taste is quite " pronounced " . I had to take a herbal medicine with thuja decades ago and still shudder to think of it . ( It did work , though ... ) When thinking of potential culinary uses , think of uses for sage or juniper - you will want to use it as a spice in foods that can " handle " the woody , bitter tinge . Dark red meat or even game perhaps ? Complement with a generous amount of pepper and perhaps a good red wine . Another approach that might be worth a try is sweetening it up - like " fir syrup " ( is this known in American cuisine ? ) .
I probably would not recommend eating a box of baking soda and chasing that with shots of vinegar . But aside from that silliness , I ca n't think of a single thing that is actual " food " that is unsafe mixed with another actual " food " , assuming reasonable quantities . Certainly anything with alcohol can be dangerous in huge quantities , as can a lot of other ingredients . Allergies or food sensitivities can make certain ingredients dangerous to certain people . But mixing ingredients to which the individual has no special sensitivity and in normal quantities ? No , I do n't think you are risking anything by doing so other than unpleasant food .
Cincinnati Chili often has cardamom , along with cinnamon and cocoa . Cardamom is used in savory and sweet foods all over the world , not just in India . If you have reason to want to try this particular recipe , then try the recipe as written . There are thousands of beloved recipes for all kinds of chili . There is no reason to say , " That one looks good , I 'll do it just like that but omit a certain ingredient 'cause it makes me nervous . " Your friend 's advice is a bit odd to me because Garam Masala usually contains cardamom ( sometimes black , green and brown ) My advice is to either try the recipe as written , or find another with which you 're more comfortable . Or come up with your own . There are no hard and fast rules when it comes to chili . BTW , I love cardamom in savory . I make a Vietnamese Beef Noodle Soup ( Pho ) that I crave if I have n't had it for a while . It would n't be right without cardamom .
In between freezings it is wisest to cook it . So if you take out raw meat , and then cook it , you can freeze it again . If you take out cooked stuff , you should get it piping hot throughout , cool it quickly , and then freeze it again . It may not have a super pleasant texture - if you do n't ave an emotional attachment to it , you might want to just toss it .
Nuts can go rancid . I 've also had stale nuts , pecans or peanuts that were exposed to too much humidity . This adversely affects the texture . They need to be fresher than that . Cashews , however , are in a slightly different boat . <URL> Cashews have a toxin in their shells that resembles poison ivy . When harvested , cashews are roasted in their shells to reduce the toxin and make the shells brittle and easy to remove . If these cashews were harvested by an amateur this process might have not been done correctly and you may be reacting to the toxin .
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
A metal pan will not crack simply from cold liquid . If you heat it up to a very high temperature and submerge it in cold water , that 's not such a good idea . But deglazing is just a tiny amount of liquid . Now , aluminum is another story - if it 's hot enough and you pour cold water ( or cold anything ) on it , it can warp , even with a relatively small amount of liquid . And for Teflon and other " coated " cookware , you can ruin the coating that way . But heavier steel or cast iron - no way . If you 're really concerned , just keep the deglazing liquid at room temperature . Deglazing is usually done with vinegar and you keep that at room temperature anyway , right ? I deglaze my CI all the time with cider vinegar and have never experienced even the tiniest crack in 10 years . I 'm pretty sure it 's safe . It 's great , actually ; CI deglazes very easily , you just need a small splash of vinegar .
It sounds like it 's fermented , and more harmful bacteria or mold could definitely have grown without being visible . So it 's not safe , in that there 's definitely some risk . It 's hard to evaluate exactly how risky it is . It sounds like you 're already routinely taking risks by eating iffy food that 's not obviously rotten or moldy , so you certainly could choose to take that risk here . I 'd really advise against it , though . Remember , food poisoning is n't just about stomachaches . If you end up in the hospital , it 's going to cost you a lot more than a replacement jar of applesauce . As a side note , applesauce generally requires refrigeration . The jar you have almost certainly says " refrigerate after opening . " So it may not be a good choice for an egg substitute . You might want to look into actually shelf-stable substitutes . If applesauce is working for you , <URL> ( or chia ) or mashed banana might be good options . Flax and chia are totally shelf-stable , and while bananas do n't last forever you can at least buy them as you need them .
The recipe appears to be close to a standard Summer Pickle recipe . It 's about a 9 % brine with 3.75 % acetic acid , which should effectively discourage human pathogens . It is not a fermented product . They 're meant to be refrigerated for at most a few months , not stored on some dusty basement shelf . Refrigerated properly , I 'd eat them without concern .
Yes , the problem will be the vinegar . Vinegar is acidic and you 'll end up with mushy meat . 48 hours is almost certainly too long . For a vinegar base , I try not to push it over 8 hours and that 's only if really necessary . A few hours is typically fine . Right now , you 've got to consider how to save the meat . I 'd freeze the meat right now . Freeze the meat with the marinade ( which seems like such a waste for 40 ' ish hours , but better that than mushy steak ) . When ready to cook , take it out and let the marinade do its business as it thaws . I 'd thaw it in ziplock under running water ( quicker than the fridge ) and let it marinade a short time and go on the grill . If you let it sit in any unfrozen stage too long , you 'll get mushy steak with a vinegar marinade .
If you 're cooking low and slow , with enough liquid , you 'll end up with a style of stew called ragoût . The trick is to not add the vegetables during the cooking , unless they 're either something that you want to break down , or you 've added enough acid to the cooking liquid to prevent onions and potatoes from fully disintegrating . Personally , I prefer to take pot-roast to this stage , as it 's what I grew up with . You might not get the ' cooked to rags ' quality of the meat , as you may not have agitated the meat before cooling . In the Good Eats episode ' Stew Romanace ' , <URL> . It 's possible that this might happen in your case ( although in his , he drains the liquid before cooling ) .
Two problems : Hot or warm food will briefly warm up the air and therefore to some degree the food already in fridge , especially items immediately near it . Cycling temperatures does not help fresh food quality or life . Modern fan forced fridges may suffer this problem less . It is very power inefficient to do this . Just let it cool on the bench until it reaches a cooler temperature and then place it in the refrigerator . Use any of the well-documented and appropriate techniques to cool food quickly and safely if it is going to longer than 2 hours to cool .
The resource we generally use here on Seasoned Advice is <URL> . Feel free to edit this answer to include other resources .
My italian grandma does it , but says to really make sure they dry out . You can dry them out and then freeze them , if it makes you feel any less hesitant .
Here 's a neat list of plastics &amp; whether they 're supposed to be microwave-safe or not : <URL>
Whether or not charcoal tastes different/better is actually a bit of a debate . I 've been a propane griller for years and now I use charcoal not for the taste , but because frankly , I like to play with fire . But lets assume that there is a taste difference , identify where the differences comes from , and how to address them : The smoke from charcoal . This is ( if you 've been using natural lump charcoal ) pretty much just wood smoke . If you 've been using briquettes you 'll also get the smoke of the filler and such , but generally this is n't desirable and we do n't want to replicate it . For smoke on a gas grill - you can use something like <URL> . Fill it with wood chips and place it over a burner , it should start smoking . Vapor from the food drippings hitting the coals , and rising back up to flavor the food . This used to be a big advantage to charcoal , but its largely minimized by new gas grills with ' vapor bars ' . As long as your grill has one of these , you 're in luck . Otherwise , there 's not a good , safe way to replicate it - but odds are you have it . Its a long bar usually running the length of burners . Lighter fluid taste . Another undesirable flavor if you 're doing a particular ( and not good IMO ) kind of charcoal grilling . Frankly , its not one you 're likely to miss . Those are the main tastes and how to replicate them . Nowadays the biggest is definitely # 1 , but it only matters if you doing foods that cook for a significant length of time or are especially ' porous ' . If you 're doing hot dogs and chicken breasts , I would n't bother if smoke . If you 're doing burgers - maybe/probably . If you 're doing thick steaks , thick pork chops , a whole chicken , or anything that 's going on awhile , then creating some smoke is definitely worth it . ( " Liquid smoke " definitely does n't taste like the real thing . )
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
Sterno is gelled denatured alcohol . It is denatured alcohol ( a combination of methanol and ethanol ) so that you ca n't , safely , drink it , but it is still mostly alcohol , which will dissolve in water and clean up just fine . While I would n't dump a lot of it down the sink , you should have no problem with cleanup . And while Sterno is n't safe to drink , it wo n't be a problem if you touch it in cleaning up . I just double checked the Sterno site and they confirm water cleanup and say , additionally , that it is biodegradable .
end question
start question
Soaking liver in milk : in or out of the fridge ?
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
To balance acidity , add sugar . It 's how most mayonnaise manages to be acidic enough to prevent bacteria growth ( pH 4.6 or lower ) , while still having a balanced and edible flavor . You might get an edible result with honey , but sugar is more of a neutral flavor , so I would use that first . Using a jigger of Dijon mustard is not beyond the pale , as well ... might help hide the acid , to a lesser extent .
Foor food safety , the recommendation means that the coolest part of the meat should reach the target temperature . For something like a beef or pork roast , the coolest point will be generally in the very center of the roast . For chicken or turkey , it will often be where the leg joins the body . You may need to probe more than one more place to find the coolest reading . Now , because the meat surrounding that coolest point is at a higher temperature , the meat will continue to cook after it is removed from the oven . How much of an increase will depend on how big the roast is . In other words , a large roast will have a greater thermal mass -- more meat towards the outside will be at a higher temperature , and the heat will transfer into the coolest point , raising its ultimate temperature . So , the practical answer to your question is that you need to anticipate when the target temperature will be attained . To err on the side of food safety , keep the meat in the oven until it reaches or is very close to the target temperature . With a little experience , you 'll be able to gauge how much of a temperature increase occurs with various roasts , and remove it from the oven earlier . The bottom line however , is that the roast needs to ultimately reach the target temperature .
I grew up in a fishing village and making shrimp paste is one thing we do for a living . The good manufacturing practices we observe keep our shrimp paste in good condition for a year and a half . I do n't even put it in a refrigerator .
Certainly yes . In fact , aged egg whites can whip better - sensitive applications like macarons will frequently prescribe holding the separated egg whites for a day or two before using .
There 's always the delight of botulism , which thrives in the anaerobic environment provided by vacuum packing . Listeria and vibrio bacteria can grow in an anaerobic environment , and are potential food safety risks present in fish . With this in mind , I would not expect vacuum packing to extend the life of a fish much . It will reduce freezer burn though !
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
According to <URL> , it should be stored in containers opaque to ultraviolet light for long term storage : The UV rays from sunlight , florescent lights , and other sources accelerate oxidation process . The storage container container for ghee must be opaque to filter out UV rays . Preferably ghee must be stored in a dark place I was unable to find credible sources with more detailed information that indicate exactly how this affects storage life . In fact , it was hard to find any references at all -- most were far more concerned with keeping it from being exposed to air ( oxygen ) . However , as it is such an easy thing to arrange -- just put the jar in a cabinet for example , or use an amber glass jar -- that it seems worth doing . My guess is that in practice , unless you are using your ghee very slowly , or have an extraordinarily large amount , that it makes very little difference , but again its easy , so why not ? I did find lots of references to using <URL> -- this is the power of Google ! :-)
I would store them outside , not inside the fridge . Fridge temperatures make anything containing flour go stale quickly . Of course , sometimes people have to live with it , such as when they have made a cake with perishable icing or filling . But cookies are not perishable , so they are better stored outside of the fridge . As to whether to put them in a sealed container or not , it depends on the cookie . The harder type does all right in the air , and can get flaccid in a sealed container . If they are soft , they are probably better off covered . It is still preferable to not isolate them completely , a canvas bag or a bread box with ventilation slits does better .
I have also not tasted hoop cheese . All descriptions of it that I can find describe it as unsalted , pressed cottage cheese . While you can definitely press out extra liquid from acid set cheeses , the proteins are not as firmly set and the texture is going to be very different . I think you will find that using rennet is not much more difficult and opens a wide variety of cheese experiments . Junket also provides quite a few recipes and I have had success with many of them : <URL> This recipe for cottage cheese uses the bacteria in ( fresh ) buttermilk to acidify the milk . Then with the addition of rennet a curd forms that is much firmer than what you get with acid alone . Making their cottage cheese recipe and pressing it into a hoop should be easy enough for you . I use the end cap of 6 " PVC pipe with holes drilled in it as my mold and bungee cords for the press . For an excellent page on home cheese production in general check out this page : <URL>
They should be fine until Monday . Do just as he said ... keep them in the fridge covered with damp newspaper . Cook them tomorrow or Monday . If you ca n't / do n't for some reason have time to cook them then just stick them in the freezer alive . They 'll freeze and you can then cook them another time in the future .
Garlic will spoil faster in the fridge actually . I do n't know how long it will last in the fridge , but I understand that it lasts longer if you leave it in a cool , dark , dry storage . I believe one reason is that your fridge is generally too humid . In my experience , garlic kept in the fridge is also more likely to develop mould ( goes soft , and dark discolouration ) . I keep mine in a ceramic thing in one of my cupboards . It lasts anywhere from a few weeks to a few months depending on the garlic ( probably how long it sat before getting to my kitchen ) . If you store it like that , garlic that goes " bad " will usually start to sprout ( green shoots , will come through the top .
This completely depends on all of the other factors involved in botulinum growth , not to mention the particular strain you 're concerned about ( there are several ) . Salt , acidity ( low pH ) , low moisture , and extreme temperature ( low or high ) will all slow botulinum growth significantly . There are proteolytic and non-proteolytic types of bacteria . The proteolytic C.botulinum bacteria will never grow in the refrigerator - they can not grow at temperatures below 12 ° C <URL> . The non-proteolytic strains can grow at temperatures as low as 3 ° C . That is very close to refrigerator temperature so clearly they will grow very slowly - again , the exact speed depends on other factors - but they will grow . According to <URL> , the proteolytic strains ( the ones that can not grow in the fridge ) are the ones that tend to produce gas and off-odours , so they 'll be more easily detectable . They also have far lower heat resistance , so they are easier to cook away . But of course , if they 've grown to a sufficient level , it 's too late to do that . As far as I know , there are n't specific guidelines for vacuum-packed foods , whether commercially packed or simply cooked sous-vide . I 'd ask you to consider that botulism is not the only type of foodborne illness that can grow in the refrigerator . There 's also <URL> , <URL> , and possibly some others I 'm forgetting about . Cooking ( especially sous-vide cooking ) does n't kill every last one of them , just enough to make the food safe . By the way , listeria and salmonella are both <URL> which means that they can grow with or without air . There 's also the small matter of your actual refrigerator temperature . Although the theoretical temperature ( 4 ° C ) is lower than that required for all but the hardiest of bacteria , once you move up even a single degree to 5 ° C there are many more kinds that can start to grow . How cold is your fridge , really ? I 've heard of some being as high as 10-12 ° C in parts ! If your fridge temperature is even slightly high , botulism will be the least of your worries . Honestly , given the incredibly tiny number of actual documented cases of botulism ( <URL> ) compared to the insanely high total number of food poisoning cases every year ( <URL> according to some sources ) , people seem to place far too much emphasis on that particular species . I realize that it 's one of the scariest on account of that whole " instant death " thing , but even if you could prove that your improperly-stored food is 100 % free of botulism toxin , you could still get seriously ill from eating it . You 're literally worrying about the least probable vector for food poisoning . Bottom line , I 'd strongly advise you to treat sous-vide food just like any other food in terms of food safety and freeze it if you plan to store it longer than 4-5 days . There are just too many variables at play to conclusively say otherwise .
From a safety point of view , assuming you are keeping the vinegar in the refrigerator while soaking ... I would make the conservative assumption that the water and nutrients from the onions is diluting the acidity of the vinegar , and making it a more hospital environment for pathogens . Therefore , I would think of the vinegar as a fully perishable item , with a lifetime in the refrigerator of four or five days . How many batches of onions could you soak in that time ? Of course , from the efficacy point of view , each batch of onions will flavor the vinegar more , and dilute it more -- so at some point , you wo n't get the results you are looking for , whether that is a basic " velveting " of the onions from a quick soak , or a more pickling like change from a longer soak . You will have to decide when the results are no longer good enough . The thing is -- vinegar is very inexpensive , at least in the US . Is it worth reusing it , when you will get less consistent results ?
Making <URL> means letting <URL> alter the texture and chemical composition of milk by digesting lactose and producing lactic acid , which in turn interacts with the proteins in the milk , causing the milk to thicken and taste sour . Unlike in cheese making you are not separating curds and whey , so you are not " losing " significant amounts of substance . Yes , there might be some fluctuation - an increasing number of lactobacillae and them eating lactose - but on a very small level . For our general kitchen precision , 500 g milk makes 500 g yogurt . Side note : 500 ml milk is not exactly 500 g , in fact , it 's 510 g according to my sources , but I consider these values precise enough for general cooking purposes . Otherwise , you ca n't even stir , as minute amounts will remain on spooons or in your pots and pans . This is a kitchen , not a lab .
They are okay to eat . The sprouts on the other hand can be very acidic and SHOULD NOT be eaten . As long as you make sure you wash the potato thoroughly you should n't have to worry .
Yes , you can safely soak it at room temperature , but why would you ? There 's no reason not to refrigerate . Meat is safe for about 2 hours in the temperature danger zone of 40F/4C to 140F/60C . Beyond that , it should be cooked or refrigerated . So , if you do decide to soak at room temperature you should cook or chill it promptly .
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
Depends on how many solids and how much water you have in it . If you 've rendered , filtered , and refined it , it should last a few weeks easy . Note : my mother maintained it never EVER went bad , refrigerated or not . Lot of old time southern cooks will say the same , but they all go through it fast .
end question
start question
Can I use fat-free milk in béchamel ?
Yes . The important fat is the one the starch first goes into . The higher temperature reached by fats ( as compared to water or milk ) helps cook the flour , creating flavors . The liquid added later dilutes the mixture into a sauce . The liquid 's fats are not as crucial for the sauce 's thickness as the liquid 's proteins . I think of the cooked butter-flour mixture as a thickner that can be added to milk , broths , and even a saucy dish . The roux thickens way better than just a slurry of flour and a cold liquid . Jack Lang has written <URL> and the science is summarized in chapter 4 of <URL>
When making lactose free milk , the lactose is n't actually removed . Instead , lactase is added to the milk . This breaks down the lactose into its component sugars , glucose and galactose . Lactose is one of the least sweet sugars , relative to sucrose ( table sugar ) . Both glucose and galactose are significantly sweeter than the original lactose , hence why lactose free milk tastes much sweeter . <URL> <URL>
If there 's leavening in the cake ( baking soda or baking powder ) that gets activated once incorporated with the rest of the ingredients , and you substantially overmix , you may lose some of its power as you help the gas escape from your batter . Unless you 're whipping it vigorously , you 're not going to be bringing enough air into the batter to make up for it . This is pretty much like letting the batter sit out on the counter for a while before baking , except faster .
No , you ca n't . You should always assume glass is not safe to use on the stovetop . Essentially none of it is , and while there are a very few exceptions , they 'll say so explicitly . ( For example <URL> says stovetop-safe in the description . ) That bowl is nothing special , definitely not stovetop-safe - it 'd shatter under the thermal stress . If you look carefully on the packaging , you might even find a warning that 's not for use on the stovetop .
Rose petals are edible . If you look for rose petal recipes , you will find many creative uses of them , including rice pudding with roses - so your pudding intuition was correct . During colonial American times they were considered a treat . You can candy rose petals with egg whites and sugar - typical cautions about appropriate raw egg white useage applies . Before using your rose petals in culinary applications , make sure to remember what chemicals you used on them . If they 've been sprayed with pesticides , you do n't want to be eating them .
When we have had garlic in our garden I have used the garlic leaves . They do have a garlicky flavor but are milder than garlic cloves . I tend to use them more as I would chives or garlic chives as in addition to having the milder flavor than the cloves they make for a quite nice presentation . Regarding drying them , I have never tried it . Off the top of my head I ca n't think of any reason not to dry them for later use but there may be issues that I just do n't know about .
Margarine has less fat than butter , but it does n't give quite the same flavor as butter does . You also have to be careful what KIND of margarine you are using . Tub margarine has a higher water content and can ruin your baked goods and the stick margarine can have a lot of trans fats in it . If you really want to get detailed into the differences , check out this site : <URL> I agree with everything stated on that site in the fact that butter , in my opinion is far superior in flavor and texture than margarine . I have yet to meet a dish that butter did n't improve the taste over margarine . But there is the thing , it really is a lot about taste . A good quote from the site about margarine : " Not great for baking : does not allow foods to become flaky , rather more cakelike ; does not spread as well as lard or shortening ; adds a greasy taste . However , some bake with it all the time and have great success ; it 's a matter of taste . "
Any time you see something like " may contain " after an ingredient list , it 's a warning that it might contain trace amounts of that substance and so could be harmful to anyone who 's allergic to it . Basically what they 're saying is that they did n't intentionally add any milk or milk products to the cocoa butter , but since they make other products at the same factory that use milk they ca n't guarantee that some has n't slipped in somehow . So assuming that cocoa butter is the only ingredient then it would be pure cocoa butter , at least by the legal definition .
Blah ... this is getting to be a bit long for a comment , so I might as well reformat &amp; expand more , even though it might not be an appropriate answer . ( and I should note that this is mostly from memory as I got an engineering degree ~ 20 years ago ) Are you asking about the physics of what ' crunchy ' is ? It 's effectively stiff , brittle things . When you 're dealing with strength of materials , you 're looking at how much energy something can absorb before it fails . Strain is a measure of how much something deforms as it 's being loaded . Items that can take a high load ( force applied ) without deforming are considered stiff . ( stiffness = force / deformation ) Brittle is a characterization of how it fails -- something that deforms plastically ( stretches and wo n't go back to the original shape once the load is removed ) can become weaker as more force is applied , but still keep resisting . Think of something like taffy . Brittle failures , however , are almost explosive -- it just breaks suddenly . Think of a concrete block being crushed -- you load it and it looks like nothing 's happening , but suddenly bits of it shoot off and you 're left with a pile of rubble . Why things are crunchy is another issue entirely -- because there 's lots of different structures that can result in " crunchy " . Crunchy baked goods are more like a wooden truss bridge . Wood can handle a lot of force without breaking , but once once member goes , the truss loses strength and is ripped apart , and it suddenly fails . There 's often debris along the breakage because of how the item rips itself apart internally . ( although we typically call them ' crumbs ' not ' rubble ' when talking about this kind of food ) . For these foods , water will typically soften the structure making it so they ca n't support much load -- making them not stiff , and thus not crunchy . Moist things like apples , lettuce and carrots are often crunchy , but it 's a bit different . It 's more like bubble wrap . Cells are effectively a bunch of tiny water balloons bound tightly together . As we apply pressure , they pop . ( although they 're so tightly packed together that unlike a single water balloon , it does n't have space to deform ) . In this case , we do n't see crumbs as much as the moisture from the cells breaking . If the cells are n't full , then we consider it to be mushy ... maybe even chewy if we dry it far enough ... if the cells do n't stay bound together well , then it 's mealy -- it crumbles easily , rather than giving us that resistance before it fails explosively . So anyway ... if you want crunchy without sugar and fat ... have some celery . If you 're okay with a bit of sugar , then carrots . If a bit of fat , then crackers ( but not ritz or really buttery ones ) .
In the US the closest thing you could ( easily ) get would be " <URL> " though this is n't quite correct since chitterlings are the small intestine , and tripa gorda is the large intestine .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
Your best bet for this is xanthan gum , which is an excellent stabiliser . Whilst the distinction between ' natural ' and ' unnatural ' is fraught with difficulties , insofar as xanthan gum is a product of microbial fermentation then it is no more ' unnatural ' than alcohol or vinegar . Be careful not to use too much though ( unless , of course , you want your drink to have the texture of mucus ) , you really only want to use about 0.4 % of the volume of the liquid you 're trying to stabilise : so if you have 500ml of milk then you would use 2g of gum . Add it to your liquid and use a blender or an immersion stick to incorporate , a few pulses should do , any more than that and you 'll just incorporate air and you could just end up with an annoyingly stable foam !
The closest thing is to combine equal parts of ground cinnamon , cloves , nutmeg , and black pepper .
My knowledge about the phenomenon itself is limited but I did see it mentioned in " Modernist Cuisine " ( Nathan Myhrvold , p. 147 ) Many recipes for foie gras , liver , sweetbreads , and other offal include a soaking step before cooking . For kidneys , this step serves a very simple purpose : to remove any trace of the animal 's bodily fluids . Recipes often call for soaking foie gras , liver , and sweetbreads in milk . It is often said that milk improves the taste , purges blood , lightens the color , or affects some other property of the meat . We were skeptical , so we tried several experiments . With a mild-flavored organ meat like foie gras , we could taste a difference , but , frankly , in our tests , we prefer the taste of water-soaked to milk-soaked foie gras . With stronger-flavored organ meats , there is even less of a difference than with foie gras . So our suggestion is to simply soak the meat in water . So , there you have it .
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
My wife makes ( made up ? ) a super-quick tasty dish : Sautee spinach , mushrooms &amp; garlic ( 2 cloves if you like it garlicky ) layer polenta on the bottom of a baking dish Add spinach/mushroom/garlic mix Add black beans ( 1 can ) Mix in a little salsa Cover with cheese Bake at 350 for 20-25 minutes until the cheese is melted .
Yes , you can definitely use UHT milk in bread . UHT is not usable for some applications , because its proteins have been changed by the heat . But in bread , you do n't need the proteins from the milk . Bread recipes include milk to make the dough richer , so it is mostly the fat content that matters . Using UHT wo n't change anything in the dough structure . I even think that the usual unpleasant taste wo n't be noticeable , but I am not so sure about that . Still , it gets diluted a lot in dough , so if you can drink UHT as-is , you should n't have a problem with the bread taste .
To replace the tomato juice your primary concerns will be the flavor component the tomato adds , as well as the textural element . Any numbers of vegetables , steamed then pureed will give you the texture ; I would recommend cauliflower for creamy , butternut squash for smooth , or carrot for spicy dishes . In terms of subbing out tomato in gazpacho and trying to retain its character this is not quite possible as it is central to the dish . However going with beet would give you an intense soup , a cold potato cream would also work well , as would any other vegetable ; however they would not really yield gazpacho
Veal cows are male . So the best place to get them would be from a dairy farm . You know they have milk for the calf and they have little use for bulls . <URL> lists some farms and source around the US . In most parts of the US there are farmers that will try to treat their stock humanely , but they tend to be local organizations ( for now ) .
I have n't used goat milk in my baking because I do n't like the taste of goats milk . I suspect it would be a good idea for you to taste goats milk first to see if you like it if you have n't already . Other than that , there 's no reason to not use it . As far as fat content goes , I only use full-fat dairy in my bread . No adjustments to the recipe are needed .
end question
start question
gel substance to keep food moist ?
This is likely to be guar or xanthan gum <URL> ( Look at one of the items like a Philadelphia roll ) . Not very appetising but does keep in ' kind of ' fresh
According to <URL> : Chestnut storage is not the same as most nuts . Fresh chestnuts should be stored like carrots . Chestnuts are comprised of about 40-50 % water and thus if not stored properly , they will spoil . Therefore , chestnuts should be stored with great care and attention . The ideal storage conditions for chestnuts are 33-35 degrees Fahrenheit and 85-90 % humidity . We recommend storing chestnuts in covered containers in the coldest part of the refrigerator . Stored properly in the refrigerator , chestnuts can have a shelf life of approximately 2-3 weeks . If you plan to use the chestnuts soon after receiving them , simply place them in a covered container in the coldest part of the refrigerator . The colder , the better . Otherwise , they recommend freezing them ( preferably par-cooked ) , and provide information at the link above . <URL> offers the following information about storing chestnuts , to prevent molding to which they indicate the chestnuts are susceptible due to their high water content : Do not let fresch chestnuts freeze and thaw ( except if you are freezing for a purpose ) Never store chestnuts in a sealed plastic bag ( except dried or frozen ) Keep chestnuts refrigerated unless drying or sweetening the chestnuts If black molds have entered into the chestnut kernel , do not eat the chestnut Chestnuts can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 to 3 weeks Cooked chestnuts must also be refrigerated if not consumed right away Never bathe the chestnuts in plain water - this causes mold spores to be transferred to all the chestnuts passing though the bath water - instead , wash in clean running tap water Try to purchase fresh chestnuts close to the time you want to eat them
Depending on what it is I am transporting I use different methods , and I use the same methods for both hot and cold transport . The easiest is the towels in a box ; lay four towels down in a shallow box , hanging the other ends of the towels out each side of the box , then put your dish or bread or pot or whatever in the box and fold each of the four towels over the food . If you have hot food , lay some more insulation material over the top , as heat rises . If you have cold food , put the box on the seat , not the floor , as the floor will conduct heat from your vehicle up into your food . I always have a sleeping bag in my rig and I will sometimes wrap food well with towels and then open the sleeping bag and shove the food into it , wrapping the rest of the sleeping bag over the top if hot food and under the bottom if cold . This has worked a lot for frozen foods when I go bulk shopping in the city , holding food frozen food for 4 hours and more .
" Shocking " the food stops the cooking process , preventing the food from losing its color and texture .
White peppercorns are used purely for aesthetic reasons - just to avoid black specs in a pale dish . Unfortunately , in my opinion , white peppercorns taste absolutely terrible . They have a sour , astringent , flavor not at all similar to black peppercorns . I do n't think black pepper looks objectionable so I always use it .
@niemiro , in your post does " go bad " mean food quality or food safety ? As for safety , you were no where near the " danger zone " either temperature-wise or time-wise . Initially safe , properly stored , frozen food that warms to -6 C ( or 22 F ) for 30 minutes will not render it unsafe to eat . In terms of food quality , freezers ( most of which these days are self-defrosting ) , go through temperature cycles regularly . The problem with this is not food safety , but the accumulation of ice crystals in foods , which degrades quality . Freezer burn is the extreme example . Of course , attention to packaging ( vacuum sealing , for example ) helps .
There is almost no food which is guaranteed to be safe . If it has nutritional value for a human , it has nutritional value for many microorganisms too , some of which are human pathogens . So , out of the FATTOM rule , you can already throw out F : you can not remove the food . A is also not a good candidate - no food is naturally acidic enough , and while there are foods preserved by acidity , an error in processing can lead to the food being dangerous . Also , there are some bacteria and molds which thrive in quite acidic environments ( although few of them are pathogens ) . Oxygen is even worse , as botulinum is anaerobic and very dangerous . Also , once you open the canned food , it can get contaminated again . Time and temperature are quite good , but they are no guarantee for no food poisoning . First , processing errors are common . Second , you ca n't sterilize the food in a normal pot , and the remaining bacteria resume multiplying even before it 's cooled off enough to eat . And , if it was contaminated before the cooking , the pathogens can have produced temperature stable toxins before you cooked the food . Moisture is probably the only factor which can produce completely safe food . Most dehydrated food is not 100 % safe . Beef jerky , cured hams , dehydrated fruit , nuts and similar can easily grow toxic mold during improper storage . Depending on how much water was removed in the preservation process and where you live , the kitchen shelf can turn out to be " improper storage " . Flours are quite safe too , but you have to cook them , and the cooked product is again not guaranteed to be safe . The only foods which will be completely safe will be the ones which never had any moisture to begin with , and will remain bactericidal if they acquire some moisture from the air . So sugar ( either granulated , or hard candy ) , salt and pure oil can be declared safe from pathogens , but not from some kind of factory mishap where toxins can have contaminated the sugar and oil . A protein powder may fall in this category , I 'm not completely sure how little moisture would be sufficient for a mold to grow on it . And do n't forget that you can infect yourself with digestive tract pathogens by handling the food with contaminated utensils or fingers , even if they do n't get the chance to build a colony in the food . You could in principle hold your dining room clean to operation room standards , but people get infections in operation rooms too . Nutrition is off topic for this site , so I wo n't discuss the wisdom of eating nothing but sugar , oil , salt and boiled water in order to eat guaranteed pathogen free food . For me personally , the trade off is absolutely not worth it .
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
Determine correct ratio of food to salt . Add more food until proper ratio is achieved . Or just serve extra beer with it .
The ones I always have : White vinegar ( as a condiment , and also for cleaning ) ; Balsamic vinegar ( mainly for salads - let it age ! ) Rice vinegar ( essential to almost all Asian cooking ) ; Red wine vinegar ( essential in French and a lot of Italian cooking ) ; Cider vinegar ( the best deglazer , and great in chilis )
For sure ! As you might expect , it 's really good for desserts , as a light , spring-time flavor for cakes , frostings , paired with berries , etc. -- but I have also seen it used with salmon and other savory dishes . Check out <URL> for some ideas :
The best recommendation I have seen is plain plastic wrap . If you have an oil mister , mist the wrap before using it . If you do n't , pour oil into a bowl , enough to form a puddle , and toss your ball of dough in the oil . Then transfer your dough to the rising container ( if you use the same bowl you used for oiling , take the dough out , pour out the superfluous oil , return the dough into the bowl ) . In the best case , the bowl will be deep enough for the dough to rise without the middle touching the wrap , but if it rises more ( even with the dough pressing against the wrap ) , dough with enough gluten development will peel off the oiled wrap with minimal losses , even if it is wet . The wrap will keep your dough surface moist in both the fridge and outside . It does n't allow breathing , but this should n't be a concern in most cases . If you overyeast the dough , the collection of fermentation byproducts in the bowl will probably make for worse taste than if they are allowed to dissipate , but the correct solution for this problem is to not produce them in the first place . With your " very long times " , this is probably not a problem in your case . You can also use this method for the secondary fermentation . But in the final proofing stage , you have to make sure that your dough never rises enough to touch the wrap , or else the loaf will deform while you are removing the wrap . Also , if you are proofing in banettons , do n't oil them , use flour combinations to prevent sticking . If you are out of plastic wrap , substituting alu wrap is a bad idea , because yeast is very sensitive to metallic ions . Today 's non-reactive metal utensils are safe enough for use with yeast dough , but untreated aluminium can be problematic . Try baking paper instead ( you may have to tape it to the outer bowl walls ) .
Without knowing the constituent ingredients of the sausage it is difficult to give exact advice . There are generally two types of chorizo fresh ( or cooking chorizo ) and cured chorizo . Fresh or cooking chorizo is made with pork , red wine , smoked paprika and salt ( along with some other spices depending on the particular recipe ) . The alcohol and salt combine as a mild preservative and therefore the sausage will last a little longer than a normal fresh sausage but only a few weeks realistically . As the name and the lack of a long curing process suggests it needs cooking before it can be eaten . Cured chorizo is made using similar ingredients but uses more salt and sometimes some sodium nitrate and nitrite . The additional chemicals create a much stronger preservative drawing out the moisture and curing the meat so that it can be safely eaten raw when finished . Cured chorizo develops a darker colour and loses around 30 % of it 's weight as it hangs whereas the fresh chorizo is likely to go bad if left to hang but this is only general advice and not definitive . As for hanging locations , sausages normally hang best in cool environments , 15 degrees C max , with a humidity of 60-70 % . Hope this helps .
Refrigeration does not improve pasta texture ; on that front my advice is to cook only as much as you are going to eat each time . Other than that , it sounds like you are overcooking the pasta , so " when you judge it done " appears to be in error , and you should alter your judgement to an earlier point if you find the pasta too wet/soft they way you have been doing it . The time needed varies depending on the shape . When it is done it should be removed from the water ( or the water removed from it ) immediately . I find no benefit to adding oil to the water - save the oil for adding just after it 's been drained if you want it to do something useful .
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
This is not a precise term , you can not go and buy " moist " and " dry " vanilla beans . But the pods can be prepared to different degrees of dryness , similar to prunes . And the ones with more remaining moisture have more taste and are generally higher quality . This is why they specify it . If you only have access to dry pods , I will still try out the recipe with them , just change the source for the next buy . Regarding the comment above , I have never had vanilla beans with a grade denoted on the packaging . But I have had both moist and dry ones , so it is n't a case of only one grade being marketed to end users . It is surely better if you can distinguish them based on some kind of grading , but chances are , you wo n't know what grade you are buying .
I 'll bet the rent that they were n't baked completely dry . Moisture made it to the crust overnight as happens with crunchy bread crust going leathery .
I have all three kinds in my freezer at this moment . Although all of mine are raw , if you usually use toasted nuts , you can toast them first , then freeze . Saves a step later when cooking .
It 's definitely an unusually long-lasting melon , although sources list a few different timeframes . <URL> says if kept in a cool , dry , frost-free place , they keep very well for several months , and reportedly over a year . <URL> increases that : If kept dry after harvest , a fruit can last several years .
Your refrigerator should be set so that it maintains a temperature no higher than <URL> . This means that you should n't be opening the door frequently or leaving it open longer than necessary . If you are <URL> in that refrigerator , you want the temperature to be no more than <URL> according to some sources , but these sources conflict . Below 32 degrees F you are obviously duplicating the functionality of your freezer , but not as well .
end question
start question
What are the uses for a roasting pan ? Do I really need a roasting pan ?
I use my roasting pan ( either with or without a rack ) at least once a week to roast vegetables - either for salads , for sides , or ( for instance with pumpkin for soup ) to get a slightly different and more concentrated flavour before blending the veges . I find the vegetables cook more evenly in a roasting pan than a baking pan - perhaps the higher sides help to create a kind of microclimate around the veges ?? Not sure about that one . When making roast vege salads , you can take the pan straight out of the oven and take advantage of the high sides to mix your other ingredients in ( pasta , greens , dressing etc ) then serve from there if no one is looking at your serving dish ! I also use it as a water bath when cooking souffles , puddings etc. .
There are only three advantages that I can think of for a brasier : The lower sides result in faster evaporation when cooking on the stove top , as it does n't hold in the steam . It 's typically not as heavy for the same surface area . You should be able to fit two of them in your oven ( on different racks ) , which is unlikely for a dutch oven . Personally , I do n't have any of that shape pan in cast iron , and the ones that I do have , I do n't use for braising ; I use them for pilaf-type dishes or casseroles where you want a wide but shallow covered dish . I do n't know if a cast iron vessel would work as well for those dishes , as the thermal mass could make it more difficult to cook the middle sufficiently without overcooking the outside , unless is n't something that you can serve immediately after coming out of the oven .
I believe that I have made some of those conflicting comments . It is definitely possible to make an excellent pan gravy with the drippings from a brined turkey . It is also really easy to have the gravy turn out inedibly salty if you are n't careful . Make sure you follow the brining recipe . Do n't have too high a concentration of salt and do n't brine for too long . Rinse off the bird , inside and out , before roasting . I have also read , from reliable sources such as Harold McGee , that gravy is impossible . My own experience would suggest otherwise .
<URL> has very good explanations about it . Let me sum of it up : The geometry of the wok is very important : better use of the surface area ability to shallow fry big items and deep fry small items with small amounts of oil . intense heat for low amount of fuel The temperature is also very important : caramelization ( or <URL> ) carbon steel , cast iron , stainless steel and others have different properties in terms of heat capacity and heat conduction .
You absolutely do n't need a bread maker for good bread . They have been making bread for at least 22,000 years and I promise , in the vast majority of those , having a bread maker would have gotten you stoned as a witch ( if you had electricty to run it ) . However , a good bread maker will vastly cut down on the time you have to spend making bread . Basically , bread by hand requires a few hours and lot of physical kneading to develop the gluten that gives bread it 's structure and in a bread machine , you dump the ingredients in , turn it on and walk away , then come back and enjoy some fresh bread .
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
AFAIK you need to heat the pan to let the oil oxidize and polymerize ¹ so that it will form a chemically protective and non-sticking coating . If you wash your cookware with soap you will have to do it every time . For that reason some people do n't wash cast iron at all and wipe it with a clean cloth or paper towel after using . ( Burned oil is apparently not very tasty to bacteria and fungi so your pan stays relatively clean and bug-free . ) From my personal experience , meat sticks to untreated cast iron like glue , but on a well-maintained thick iron pan it glides like on Teflon . __ ¹ I do n't know if it makes any chemical sense because all references to polymerized fats I could google up were in relation to reoiling ( seasoning ) .
As others have said , the issue is the hot oil and water interacting . You need to reduce or eliminate one in order to prevent the splatter or find a way to mitigate the damage . Remember the basics - allow the meat to warm up to room temperature before cooking and pat it dry before you begin . That should allow you to use less oil without it turning into a charred lump with a raw center . You can use a lid or a screen to prevent splatter ( you might need to adjust cooking time with a lid that will trap more heat ) .
You will need the following : A pot that 's about 12 " in diameter and 4 inches deep Put the broth in the pot , you can buy broth packages usually at Chinese/Asian supermarket . You just need to mix it with water and boil . Food you want to cook in the pot . Sliced beef is my favourite , but mussels , beef balls , fish balls , shrimps , veggies , etc. . You will need chopsticks , hot pot scoop that looks like the following , so you can scoop the cooked food to your own plate : <URL> To add flavour , usually you dip the cooked food in soya sauce , but a mixture of raw egg , soya sauce and satay sauce is used as the deep . You can even add chopped chili , green onions and chili oil to it . Just make the broth . Cook the food you like as you eat . That 's it !
Flick water on the pan . If it just sits there , it 's not hot enough . If it combines into balls and skates around on the pan , it 's either too hot or just right for a wok or blackening something . If it sizzles and evaporates within a couple of seconds , it should be good for a normal sautee or sweat .
Milder cheddars are for melting . They get used in things such as grilled cheese sandwiches , grating into chili , nachos , or in quesadillas . In these uses , they do n't need the full-bodied flavor of a sharp cheddar , but they do need to melt down into soft , gooey , creamy deliciousness . Sharper cheddars are for flavor . I commonly see them in sandwiches , macaroni and cheese , topping salads , and as part of cheese boards . The reason it works like this is that " sharper " cheddars get their bite from additional aging , which develops a richer flavor but makes the cheese drier and increases the melting point . That said , there are no hard and fast rules for how to use mild vs. sharp cheddar . In my house we always use extra sharp cheddar because even everyday cheese should be a gustatory delight . It 's a little trickier to make into a quesadilla or melt on a cheeseburger , but the extra tang is worth it !
It 's actually spelled ' roux ' , and is a mixture of oil and flour , cooked to remove the starchy taste of the flour . It 's a great thickener any time that you do n't need the sauce to be clear , and you have time to cook it down . I typically use it for cream sauce ( including cheese sauces , such as for mac &amp; cheese ) and gravies . As for benefits -- it 's habit at this point , so I 'm not really sure -- I guess it 's made from things I always have on hand . You can also get flavor from the roux , if you cook it longer , but you 'll adversely affect the thickening ability . Gumbo is normally made from a dark roux ( the Cajuns have a series of names for the color of roux , including ' brick ' , ' peanut-butter ' and ' chocolate ' )
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
Butter melts at such a low temp that this would work . You would want as low a flame as you can . I would not recommend it , however . If you forget it the metal is thin enough to burn through and at least make a mess - worst case it will ignite the butter , atomize the aluminum which will unverifiably hasten the onset of Alzheimer 's , and burn your house to the ground . Butter melts at 90-95F . You can just leave the butter in the sun for a few minutes .
( Storage note : do not wash the bulbs before storing them ; place in plastic bag in the refrigerator . Wash just before using . ) Young kohlrabi is great raw . Peel first , then add to salads ( sliced or grated ) serve as part of a veggie platter w / dip grate it and add to slaw ( but after grating it , put some salt on it &amp; let it sit , then squeeze the water out of it ) puree it - here 's someone who really loves it pureed : <URL> Cooked kohlrabi can be steamed or boiled . Remove the skin after cooking . You can eat the leaves , if they are still firm and green ; use them within a couple of days . Wash the leaves &amp; remove the tough stem parts ( ribs ) . Blanch in boiling water for a couple of minutes , drain , chop , and serve with a bit of butter , salt , and pepper . A little vinegar or lemon juice is good on them , too .
I 'm going to take a wild guess at what 's happening , based on what I know of thermodynamics , ( but I could be wrong about the whole thing ) When a cakes and bread bakes , it bakes from the outside ... as it forms a crust , it can no longer rise . ( for yeast breads , this is why we slash the top , so it can get a little extra rise out of it ) With a cake , as the sides set , it 'll continue to rise in the middle , creating a domed top . With a metal tube pan , the heat from the outside of the pan conducts to the middle of the pan , so the middle will set shortly after the outside . ... With the silicone pan , you 've actually got an insulator ... the heat 's not going to conduct to the inside , so it 's going to be able to rise longer than around the inside -- basically , the domed cake , but you 've got something for it to stick to , so it does n't fall back down as it sets . As I do n't think the issue is distribution of the batter , I 'd recommend trying other techniques to reduce the domedness of the cake -- cook it at a lower temperature ( try 25F / 15C lower ) for a longer time . You ca n't remove the problem entirely , but you might be able to reduce it . I 'd also look at the instructions that might 've come with the pan -- it 's possible that they have reommendations on how to deal with the problem . ( and it 's possible that this might not be as significant a problem in convection ovens , but replacing your whole oven for a set of pans is kinda silly )
No , you do n't . Pastry flour is usually low in protein/gluten compared to A/P or bread flour . It may also be more finely ground . Both help in achieving a light , delicate texture when baking cakes , cookies , biscuits , etc. . But it 's not necessary . Especially if they 're asking for a 3/1 mix , you probably wo n't even notice the difference . Just be careful not to over-mix the dough : this encourages gluten formation and forces out air , thus resulting in tougher , denser cookies . Letting the dough rest in the fridge or freezer for 20 minutes prior to baking can help avoid this as well . Alternately , substitute oat flour ( grind some oatmeal in a blender / spice mill if you do n't have any ) - it has no gluten , and will add a pleasant , nutty flavor to the cookies .
There 's a lot of range of acceptable outcomes for this , so let me give you the parameters I work with . I generally start by mixing the cauliflower with some oil ( olive oil typically ; others substituted depending on the flavor profile I want ) on a baking sheet , then sprinkling with salt . This part is important ; if you skip the oil , you 'll likely just end up with dried out cauliflower . So every other bit of guidance I give is based on that . Additionally , it 's important to try to spread out the cauliflower so that it makes just a single layer . 350F works well when I do n't want to pay much attention while roasting . It usually takes 30-60 minutes , depending on how finely I break the florets . Larger pieces take longer . I usually check it every 15 minutes or so and flip pieces around . In most cases , you 'll get more gentle browning with this temperature than with higher temperatures . You 'll probably get the softest , sweetest cauliflower this way . If you are more impatient but you are willing to check on the cauliflower more frequently , you can easily go up to 425F . I can shave off a fair amount of time , and I 've had good results with even large pieces cooking fairly quickly , often in the 25-40 minute range . The caveat is browning is much more aggressive , and you need to rotate pieces more frequently , possibly every 8-10 minutes . You will often get a more caramelized result than with lower temperatures , and you may find cooking slightly less even . I sometimes prefer this because I like a balance of chewy and soft texture and I like the extra caramelization on the surface . Generally seasonings other than salt are best added near the end of the cooking process so that you do n't burn them ; spices , herbs , and garlic in particular ca n't typically handle much more than about 15 minutes baking .
Depends on what you 're juicing . If you 're juicing something like a lemon/lime for lemon/limeade , you can just strategically slice and squeeze to get all but a couple mLs of juice . If you 're juicing something like an apple , you can cook it slightly and then use your food processor to make apple sauce , which can these be squeezed through a cheesecloth/pillowcase for a great deal of juice . For everything else ( practically at least ) , a manual juicer ( like <URL> ) will do just fine and cost a maybe a few bucks .
Yes , this works , as long as you do n't boil them too long . The idea is that by the time they get roasted properly ( e.g. your potatoes are browned on the outside ) the inside is only just cooked , not overcooked . I 'd aim for very roughly half cooked , starting to be pokeable with a fork but not actually tender . For flavorful things like beets , you may lose some flavor into the water , but they should still be quite good . If you want to avoid this , though , you can just steam them instead , or even microwave . It 's not really much more trouble than boiling ! If you do this , and get the timing right , it wo n't really affect the taste or texture much at all compared to just roasting .
end question
start question
Is there any danger to letting food cook in a slow cooker for a very long time ?
It 's safe . All that matters for safety is that the food stays out of the danger zone ( above 140F ) . But it sounds like a pretty reliable way to overcook things . Perhaps that 's why it sounds absurd to you ? Slow cookers tend to be somewhere between simmer and light boil ( probably at least 180F ) , and there 's very little that wo n't be fully cooked after half a day at those temperatures . If you cook for days , you 'll start turning beans and vegetables to mush , and may manage to make meat tough from overcooking . So at best it 's pointless , and at worst it 's going to mess up your food .
There is no problem at all doing this . At a restaurant where I worked , we would make up a couple pounds of butter worth of roux at a time . The main thing you want to do is use a pan with a lot of surface area , so it cooks evenly . A whisk will work fine . You do n't have to stir constantly , just frequently .
You can use any neutral flavored oil , such as vegetable or canola oil . You can also use butter , but you may have to adjust for the amount of water present in the butter ( about 20 % ) , unless you 're using clarified butter which is a 1:1 substitution .
For your average mixing task , pretty much any bowl ( of the right size , shape ) will do . Also , " plastic " is n't one material , it 's a bunch of different materials . For example , some advantages of polypropylene bowls do not apply to melamine formaldehyde bowls , but both are plastic . So , here are some advantages of a polypropylene ( PP ) bowl over a metal bowl : microwave safe high elasticity ( can be bent , and will go back to its original shape . E.g. , if you drop your PP bowl , it wo n't dent ) extremely acid-resistant extremely resistant to other chemical attacks ( e.g. , will not corrode ) plastic bowls are often made in a mold , so can be cheaply made in a variety of shapes . You can get bowls with nice pouring spouts , etc. because of this . Of course , they have disadvantages too : fats stick , almost impossible to remove all traces ( a problem when beating egg whites ) ca n't be used over a pot as a double-boiler ca n't hold very hot things ( e.g. , you can put hot oil in a metal bowl , but PP would melt . Different plastics have different melting points , some ca n't even hold boiling water . You never have to worry with stainless . ) ca n't be used in the oven And there are things which are just different , like metal conducts heat better ( so it works better when cooling in an ice bath , but also you 're much more likely to get burnt on it ) , metal is denser ( PP floats , metal does n't ) . If you get metal bowls , except for a few applications where copper is nice ( those egg whites , again ) , you want stainless steel . Stainless is fairly resistant to acid and also corrosion ( plain steel is not ) . Note that stainless comes in different grades , which vary in their corrosion , rust , and acid resistance .
The person who wrote <URL> , agrees with you on the 80-100 ° part . However , in his salmon recipe , he advices to smoke below 85 ° . So my guess is that it depends on the food you 're smoking .
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
I 've cooked white rice , brown rice , wild rice , whole Oat Groats ( 2 brown rice cycles + a little extra water on cycle two ) , rye groats , Khorasan wheat ( kamut ) , barley , Spelt , and numerous other seeds in my fuzzy logic rice cooker , but never Quinoa . It seems to me the white Quinoa seed benefits from a short cook time , and a long post-cooking expansion time . A rice cooker does n't do that very well . The red Quinoa I can also get is tougher , and might like being cooked like brown rice . That said , I have n't tried it . It 's certainly possible that your rice cooker could make passable Quinoa . I suggest you give it a try on a small batch . If you like the result , post that here , and I 'll try it too .
What is the application ? For most uses , no , there would be little to no effective difference . Dairy products are a mixture of water , sugars , minerals ( which the dairy industry calls ash , because they are left as ash when burned in a calorimeter ) , proteins , and fat . If the product is not homogonized , the fat globules will eventually rise to the surface ( where they can be skimmed as cream , giving rise to the term skim milk for when the cream has been removed ) . If the product is homogonized , the fat has been forced into much smaller globules which form a stable emulsion , and will not rise . Whipping non-homogonized cream is much easier , but most of us ( at least in the US ) do not have easy access to such a product . Additionally , most dairy products are pasteurized in one of the various methods , slow or fast , which can affect the flavor . Other than these differences in flavor or whipability , you can mix them with little difference for most applications . Note : to your specific question , your mixture of smim milk and cream may actually be richer than commercial half and half , which is often about 12 % milkfat , but it would function very similarly . Of course , all the above only applies to fresh products -- basic milk or cream of various fat percentages . Fermented products like yogurt , creme fraiche , cottage cheese , buttermilk , and so forth have entirely different charactaristics .
Wiki 's cited entry on <URL> is interesting . The ready-made spice blend " Herbes de Provence " did not come into existence until the 1970 's , as a product marketed by the French company Ducros . If there 's a standard blend ratio , it would therefore be what 's in the Ducros ' product - though since it is a generic term rather than a trademarked one , other manufacturers and cooks have their own recipes and interpretations . Ducros ' own blend <URL> , according to the " My French Cuisine " blog ( who also has the McCormick blend breakdown and a home-made alternative blend sourced from a French cookbook ) : Rosemary ( romarin ) -- 26 % Savory ( sariette ) -- 26 % Oregano ( origan ) -- 26 % Thyme ( thym ) -- 19 % Basil ( basilic ) -- 3 %
What you need for the conversion of collagen is a certain amount of energy . It is a complicated process - the melting point is around 70 ° C for the type of collagen contained in beef , but the melting does not happen instantly once the meat reaches 70 ° C . In a pressure cooking , you can apply the same amount of energy in a shorter amount of time . This is not bad , as opposed to slow roasting of collagen-poor meat . In collagen-poor meat , you have two types of protein , which are soft and wet . Under heat , they curdle , becoming tough and dry . The perfect meat is when the first type has curdled ( so the meat is not raw ) but the second has n't , so it still holds juices inside . If you curdle both , your meat gets tough and you ca n't take it apart with your teeth . In collagen-rich meat , you curdle both proteins - the collagen itself is tough and you want to melt it , but this happens long after the meat has curdled . But because the muscle fibers are not clinging to each other , but separated by collagen , you still get tasty meat . For that , you melt the collagen into gelatin , and serve the meat warm , so that the dry fibers are separated by the smooth , juicy melted gelatin . Unlike slow-roasted meat , you do n't have to tear the juiceless fibers apart , and the gelatin makes up for the missing meat juices which were expelled from the cells during curdling . So , in slow-roasted meat you do n't want to cross the temperature limit for curdling a certain protein , this is why you have to apply heat slowly until the center of the meat has cooked , without the outside getting overcooked . In collagen-rich meat , there is no upper limit at which the meat gets non-tasty , so you can push the energy needed for the collagen-to-gelatin conversion quickly into your meat . The pressure cooker can do this better than the normal boiling process .
Yes . It may be fine for immediate consumption . The problem is the air flow from the drying itself can also accelerate the oxidation of the fat . When I have dried fatty meat the fat already tasted a bit off . This is a matter of quality , not safety . If the fat is n't objectionable to you after drying then it is fine . As you said , you should expect the fat to go off and eat it soon .
Assuming you 're using spices which are all dried and ground , there should be no problem . In the middle-east , there are always several spice mixtures available in shops . The most famous of which are Ras-al-Hanout and Baharat . These are spice mixtures sold as pre-mixed combinations by the shopkeeper , who is usually the one who grinds the spices .
According to <URL> , industrial and food grade CO2 generally come from the same plants : The slight difference between industrial-grade CO2 and food-grade CO2 is the type of tests that are done to qualify CO2 as beverage or beer gas-grade compared to industrial-grade . Currently , the FDA 's requirement for food-grade CO2 a 99.90 % purity rating . The other .09 % is made up of impurities such as hydrocarbons or nitrogen . Industrial grade CO2 is 99 % pure CO2 , also containing impurities such as hydrocarbons or nitrogen . However , the nature of those impurities extremely important . They go on to suggest : One impurity that all homebrewers should be aware of is benzene . Benzene is a no-no for homebrewers . If the CO2 that you are purchasing has high benzene levels , it will leave you and fellow drinkers with terrible headaches . When I say high levels , we are not talking about much . Benzene is usually an impurity that is referred to in PPB . The benzene level should be around 20 PPB . They suggest you ask for a profile of the impurities , although I suspect that Dick 's will be unable to comply . You will have to assess your own tolerance for risk , but you may better off seeking a more appropriate local vendor .
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
Honey contains lots of aromatic compounds , which are quite big , fragile molecules . This is one of the reasons why cold centrifuged honey costs more . When you decrystalize honey by heating it , many of these aromatic molecules break up , and you lose the complexity of the aromas . So yes , it is bad for the honey . Also , it may reduce its health benefits , as vitamins and other micronutrients tend to degrade under heat ( but only some of them - others , like trace minerals , are quite unimpressed by temperature ) . Of course , the question is not only if it is bad , but if it is worse than eating crystalized honey . This depends on 1 . The honey quality and 2 . the way you plan to use the honey . With the honey quality , it is obvious that , if the honey has already been heated in the production process , the volatile stuff has already been destroyed , so subsequent heating for decrystalization is not a problem . But if you spent money on cold centrifuged honey , you are negating its benefits by heating it . About the use : If you will heat it anyway ( as in putting it in tea , or baking it into a dough ) , there is no reason not to decrystalize first . Also , if you are only using it as a sweetener , even cold , there is no problem in heating it . But if you are using it as an aromatic agent , like in a creme fraîche and honey dressing for a fruit salad , or using it as a bread spread , then it will taste better if never heated . It will still have a general honey taste and aroma , but the subtle notes will be missing . Whether this bothers you or not depends on whether you rate aroma or texture higher . My personal choice is to not heat honey in these cases , but your preference might be different . Probably the best way to decide is to take a small amount of crystalized good quality honey , heat it , and compare it side-by-side with the crystalized version . Then use whatever version you like better . If you happen to like the decrystalized one more , it is probably a good idea to not spend money on fancy honeys in the future ( " cold-centrifuged lavender honey from South France " etc. ) , as it wo n't taste all that different from a common wildflower honey after decrystalization .
When you cut any food you expose the cut surface to oxygen , which causes chemical changes due to oxidation . You also expose the cut surface to microbes and organisms which break down food . Both of these will impact the quality of cut meat or fish , so yes a filet cut from a whole fish just before cooking would be fresher and better quality than one cut some time before . The effect is not great , however . If you had a whole fish and cut one filet from it the day before , then cut the other filet just before cooking both identically I doubt you would be able to tell any difference between the two . To me the reasons for buying a whole fish as opposed to filets is cost and choice . A whole fish is easier to judge for quality than a filet , you can see whether the eyes are cloudy or clear , for instance . Buying a whole fish is cheaper than buying the filets off of it because it 's much less work for the seller , so you can save some cash doing it yourself . However , fileting a fish is not that easy . It 's perfectly do-able at home and there 's loads of how-to videos but it 's still pretty involved and hard to do that well without lots of practice . It 's also messy time consuming , so when you buy filets it 's for the convenience of not having to do it yourself . The important thing is to make sure it 's fresh whether it 's whole or already prepped .
Modifying your original terms : Size : 2-3 quart/liter . I consider 2.5 quarts to be ideal . Material : Two options : hard-anodized aluminum nonstick , OR stainless-steel interior/exterior . With stainless , it should have either an encapsulated aluminum disk base or a tri-ply construction ( aluminum layered with stainless ) Bottom : Thick is good , and you absolutely must have aluminum here for conduction Handle : stainless is good , as long as it stays relatively cool . The handle absolutely must be riveted on , with thick rivets . Screws , glue , or welded handles do not last long-term . Tack-welded handles are the bane of the restaurant I work for right now ; we 've had several handles snap off in the last year . Additional things to look for : Weight : HEAVY . You want fairly thick cookware for even heating , but most of that weight should be from thickness of the aluminum disk . Design : A flared lip around the pot , to facilitate clean pouring . Shape : I 'm partial to shallow designs , which flare out at the top . Although it 's nonstick and not stainless , I love my <URL> for it 's extra-flared design . This lets it transmit heat more efficiently from the range , and allows it to safely hold a larger capacity of food . It also allows for faster and cleaner reduction of sauces . Lid : TEMPERED GLASS with a handle on top , and a flange to help seal tightly on the pot/pan . Tempered glass is very durable and lets you see the progress of your cooking without releasing the steam . The handle also remains cool , so you do n't burn yourself on it ; this is the second problem I have with solid stainless lids on many premium cookware lines ( All Clad , and most manufacturers ' tri-ply products ) .
Use a deeper dish . Fries should n't be fried in a skillet . Use a 4 + quart pan . Then cover with a metal screen to reduce the splatter .
It is absolutely safe to do so ... For most foods , I would say that there is no reason not to . If they are savory muffins like corn muffins to be served with the roast , I would not hesitate at all . For sweet goods , with a high amount of butter or oil , there is some small risk of absorbing aromas . I would generally segregating strongly aromatic foods for baked goods . The foil should mitigate most of the possible transfer , but I would n't try it for the first time with guests .
The FDA has a page for <URL> and a separate one for <URL> . They 're fairly concise ; they refer to but do n't link to the complete documents . ( I 'll try and find those at some point . ) For the EU , I believe you want E numbers . There 's actually a pretty solid <URL> . On the EU site , there 's a <URL> page which further links to a database and full document . ( You can find a lot more copies of this kind of thing by searching for E numbers on Google . )
end question
start question
Does vanilla powder really prevent melted chocolate from seizing ?
I just reviewed the Nielsen Massey website and under their FAQ 's they suggest that vanilla powder be used for " liquid sensitive products " . The powdered nature of the vanilla would allow you to add it to melted chocolate without causing the melted chocolate to seize up . While vanilla has a unique and characteristic flavor of its own , it also helps to heighten and intensify other flavors , chocolate being one of them . When chocolate seizes the emulsion of cocoa butter and cocoa powder has been interrupted by the introduction of a small amount of moisture . You either need to keep all liquids out of melted chocolate or add in a significant amount . So ... it only prevents it from seizing if you were going to be adding vanilla in extract form but no other liquids . It would not be something you add as a preventative measure . Prevent the seizing through proper procedures in the first place : Do not allow water in the water bath to touch bottom of the bowl that you 're melting chocolate in . The steam produced by the water is what 's doing the melting so as long as wafts of steam are rising from the surface it 's hot enough . The water does n't even need to be simmering - cocoa butter starts to melt around 83-85 degrees F. Make sure all utensils are dry so water droplets are n't introduced Make sure the bowl you 're using is large enough for the edges to flare out beyond the edge of the pot . If the edges just meet the edge of the pot then steam will condense on the edge and get into the chocolate causing it to seize .
Meringue powder is a pasteurized egg product - <URL> . It is used to stiffen recipes and I think there are two main reasons for using it ( as opposed to egg whites ) : 1 ) Reduced risk of salmonella 2 ) Less time/labour/effort used - you do n't have to beat the egg whites for a long time to stiffen them I would guess as well that it would have more consistent results . When making meringues with egg whites you have to be careful not to get any yolk or other fat into the mixture or it wo n't stiffen properly . There is no real risk of this with meringue powder .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
The vanilla chapter of Ian Hemphill 's " Spice and Herb Bible " says , Vanilla is also delicious in savory cooking because it is not overtly sweet . An innovative Mauritian restaurant in Sydney served a delicious vanilla chicken [ ... ] It was aromatic delicate and beautifully balanced . The same book has a recipe for Vanilla Salmon Salad where vanilla seeds are scraped into the dressing . I did a quick taste test using vanilla extract with various savory things from my fridge . Here are the results : Cheese : tasted fine , but I would n't call it a taste sensation ; Vegeburger : nasty combination ; I think the leeks in the burger were a problem ; Avocado : actually quite a nice combination ; Roasted aubergine : not bad ; Tomato : fine ; Savory omelet : not good ; onions do n't seem to work with vanilla extract ; Baked beans in tomato sauce : very nice . Note that using vanilla extract and a vanilla bean to flavor a dish are not the same thing . There is an amount of alcohol in the vanilla extract I used ( bourbon ) and this may completely invalidate the test . Having said that , the first indications are that alliums ( onions , leeks , garlic etc ) do n't go with vanilla . So onion soup may not be a good plan . And since curry generally contains plenty of onion and garlic , I 'm skeptical about using it there too . Turning to the question of whether vanilla and vanillin become dangerous when heated , the answer is almost certainly no . That does n't mean that heating vanilla is inconsequential . Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " mentions that vanilla beans contain more than 200 volatile compounds and notes , Prepared vanilla extracts [ ... ] are best added toward the end of cooking ; any period of time spent at a high temperature causes aroma loss . On the other hand , heating vanillin at normal cooking temperatures ( i.e. normal for soup and curry ) is not a problem . Its <URL> . As another answer mentions , vanilla has a more complex taste to pure vanillin . Most of what you will read comparing the two will be very much in favor of using real vanilla beans in cooking . Instead of repeating this advice , I 'm reminded of having read that in a Cook 's Illustrated <URL> to synthetic vanillin , the artificial flavoring came out on top . It 's probably not be enough to conclude that vanillin tastes better than vanilla but may encourage you to forge ahead if vanillin is all you can afford . Update : Having read @papin 's suggestion that you may need to caramelize the onions , I just did a quick taste test with rostad lök ( not sure how it translates from Swedish , the literal translation is toasted onion ) . It tasted slightly better but still not great . Again , I 'm using vanilla extract so my taste test is not necessarily valid .
Keep it stored in an airtight container , so that it does n't absorb moisture from the air . If it congeals , put the container in hot water until honey is liquid ( ~ 10-15 minutes ) .
I did this as an experiment last month , because I wanted a marble cake . The part that I wanted chocolate , I just swapped out a half-cup of the flour for cocoa . I should note , however , that while it tasted great , it made a denser , slightly drier cake than did the white cake batter . Next time , I plan to add a couple of teaspoons of grapeseed oil and some extra baking powder to counteract that problem .
Standard tips for browning/frying/grilling tofu ; Ensure that you press the tofu sufficiently to remove its own moisture , marinate if desired Lightly dust with flour Brush oil on the grilling surface The same advice applies for pan frying . I prefer to work at a high temperature , others have had very good results using only medium . Use a very thin , flat metal spatula to turn . Specific to the case of grilling , be mindful of the gap the tofu will stretch across on the grate ; it may be crumbling because it is n't strong enough or thick enough to sustain wide gaps . Additionally you can pre-bake the tofu to dry it out further . I have heard tell that salting lightly with finely ground sea salt helps prevent sticking but have no experience with this , and have had good results without the added sodium . Typically the moisture in the surface of the bean curd is causing the sticking . Prevent or inhibit this and you should be good .
I 've struggled with this issue as well because I live in a moist climate and instant espresso powder cakes up on me between uses . Generally recipes which use instant espresso power are trying to add a kick of bitter and roasted flavors to deepen chocolate flavors and make them richer . You can try substituting instant coffee 1:1 , but the flavor of the baked good will certainly suffer a loss of richness . Increasing the amount of instant coffee , however , would likely add more bitter or acidic flavors -- and caffeine -- to the cookie or cake than you want . Also , instant coffee takes longer to dissolve , so it needs to be added straight to a liquid . There 's no real way to substitute liquid coffee in most recipes , such as chocolate cookie or brownie recipes , because the recipe has no water in it in the first place . In the rare recipes where there is water , you could substitute strong-brewed coffee for an equal quantity of water + espresso powder , and this would likely work fairly well . So , summing up : there 's no really good substitute for instant espresso powder in recipes which call for it that I 've found with some significant experimentation . Hopefully someone else has had better ideas than me .
There are two things to keep in mind while melting chocolate : Keep a low uniform heat I start off the melting process with low to medium heat . Once the chocolate fully melts , I reduce the heat to low and keep gently stirring all the while . If you allow the chocolate to cool , it separates out into non-uniform areas of heat , and the cooler pockets start crystallizing . This causes lumps or spikes to form . However , if you go too high , the chocolate may burn . Keep the chocolate absolutely dry This also includes steam and condensation from the boiler . The water in the boiler should not splash over or steam into the chocolate . Also make sure that the dipped materials ( truffles in your case ) are totally dry . Presence of water causes rapid cooling of parts of the chocolate , which again causes lumps to form . It also causes sugar to crystallize out of the fine chocolate mix . This is called " seizing " , and such chocolate is very brittle and difficult to melt . EDIT : Here 's a nicely written article on the different methods of melting chocolate : <URL>
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
You do n't need a brand for brewed chocolate . You just take cocoa powder ( which is ground cocoa beans minus most of their fat ) and put it into boiling water . You do n't even need to strain . But I prefer to make mine with milk ( btw , I sometimes brew coffee in milk too ) . Solid candy from coffee is something else . What you call " coffee butter " is , in fact , coffee oil at room temperature . I ca n't find information about the breakdown of the coffee beans , but I am not sure if they have the starch content of cocoa beans ( which helps hold a chocolate bar together ) . Add to this the potential for a heart attack inducing amount of caffeine per bar of caffeeolate and you see why this is n't commonplace . I guess that the industry today would find ways around these problems . You can hydrogenize the oil ( although I do n't think it would attain the smooth texture of tempered chocolate , chocolate butter has some very special crystallization properties which allow a chocolate bar to have a silky but hard texture . It will be just grainy ) and you can decaffeinate the whole thing , and then mix it with some starch to thicken it , and as much sugar as there is in milk chocolate to counter the higher bitterness of coffee . But this will be as distant from real rich-flavoured coffee as 39 cent discounter chocolate bars are from real chocolate . There wo n't be an equivalent of premium dark chocolate ( which is the one that tastes of cocoa beans instead of sugar ) . If you love coffee so much that you want to try a coffeeolate bar , you are better off making coffee flavoured chocolate . If you want the least taste mix , start with a white chocolate bar . The easiest way would be to melt it and mix in a very small amount of cream with lots of instant coffee solved into it , but the taste will be bound by the instant coffee quality . The other way would be to brew the coffee powder in cream , very concentrated ( more than an espresso ) and add it to the melted chocolate . You 'll have to work at chocolate candy making temperatures ( 30 ° C to 32 ° C ) , if you overheat , you 'll have to retemper the chocolate .
Well , if it was a boat , you 'd swab it every few days ( " swab the desk " ) so it stayed wet and swollen . You could also treat the bucket with a food-grade mineral oil . You can find it in most kitchenware stores for protecting cutting boards . The oil will evaporate much slower than water will , but it will still evaporate . You might try putting the whole thing in a large plastic bag or similar container , so whatever moisture evaporates stays in the air surrounding the bucket , slowing further moisture loss ... but moist , stagnant air is n't good for long periods of time , either , as you could end up with mold that would be even more annoying to deal with . Or , as the bucket 's only touching the ice &amp; salt mix , and not coming in direct contact with food , you could always use wood treatments available from any hardware store . update : I was reading up on walnut oil , and wikipedia linked to a woodworker <URL> for finishing wood that would come in contact w / food , but that you should re-coat each year . I assume the beeswax would give it longer durability as compared to straight mineral oil sold for cutting boards .
Butter may look totally amorphous , but there 's actually a fair amount of structure in the fat , in particular fat crystals that make it firmer . Melting it disrupts all that structure , and it ca n't regain it just by resolidifying , so the structure of previously melted butter really is different . You might notice that this is similar to chocolate : if you take smooth , snappy tempered chocolate , melt it , and let it resolidify , the texture will often be grainy , soft , or even crumbly . That 's also thanks to fat crystals , in that case in the cocoa butter . To back up a bit , let 's look at how butter is made . Churning is the most well-known step , but there 's more : Aging ( heating , cooling , and storing the cream ) . The cream is heated and cooled , with resting periods at various temperatures , which encourages formation of certain kinds of fat crystals . ( The details of this process vary ; for example <URL> . ) Churning . This damages the fat globules , causing them to release fat , which forms much of the mass of the butter and lets it collect into grains . Working/kneading . After draining off the buttermilk , the grains are kneaded together . This evens out small amounts of buttermilk trapped in the grains , and fat crystals can also come together into larger networks . So the final butter actually has three forms of fat in it : fat crystals , free fat , and fat globules . The fat crystals make it firmer , and the free fat and globules make it softer . This also explains why butter is n't all the same texture . For example , from On Food and Cooking : Feeds rich in polyunsaturated fats , especially fresh pasturage , produce softer butters ; hay and grain harder ones . The butter maker also influences consistency by the rate and degree of cooling to which he subjects the cream during the aging period , and by how extensively he works the new butter . These conditions control the relative proportions of firming crystalline fat and softening globular and free fat . So when you melt and resolidify butter , it 's not just a simple solid to liquid to solid thing . You 're disrupting the crystals , and potentially even rupturing a few more fat globules . That means a couple things : There 's likely more free fat and less crystals , which explains why previously melted butter can be much softer than the original butter . The crystals that do remain or reform wo n't have the same structure as the original ones , since you did n't follow the same heating/cooling/storing regimen . That explains the graininess you noticed . It 's possible that working/kneading the butter might even that back out to some extent . The exact texture of your previously melted butter will probably vary , depending on how hot you melted it and how fast you cooled it afterwards .
I am assuming your couverture was real chocolate , since you have n't said . While I do n't know the effect of alchohol on chocolate , small quantities of water can easily seize chocolate . It becomes a nasty , pasty , stiff mess . Typical 80 proof vodka would be 40 % alcohol by volume , and so approximately 60 % water , so your homemade extract would have had significant water in it . According to Harold McGee as related in <URL> , this sounds like what happened : The process of refining cocoa beans into chocolate gets rid of all the moisture , and so the final product is actually incredibly dry . Technically , even melted chocolate can be considered a ' dry ' ingredient despite its liquid state . For this reason , adding water to melted chocolate has the same effect as adding water to flour -- it turns into a paste . Food science Harold McGee explains that " the small amount of water acts as a kind of glue , wetting the many millions of sugar and cocoa particles just enough to make patches of syrup that stick the particles together ... " You may be able to still use the chocolate for ganache by adding cream , or adding more water so it becomes smooth again , and use it as sauce ... but it almost certainly can not be recovered for covering confections any more . To prevent this from happening in the future , do n't get your couverture wet -- from any source . Note that the flavoring in truffles is normally in the ganache filling , not the couverture ; you have n't said you are making truffles , but this gives you a hint : One way to keep the couverture dry and still have your mint flavor is to add your mint flavoring to the filling . Another would be to make your homemade mint extract with grain alcohol rather than vodka , so that there is no water in it .
A chinoise will not -- I speak from daily experience -- filter out vanilla seeds . A coffee filter would , but my question is : why on earth would you bother ? It 's annoying to do ( and depending on what the product is , filtering through a coffee filter would ensure you lose other things ) , and seeing actual vanilla seeds in the final product tells your guests that you are using real vanilla beans , not extract . Professional kitchens do not , generally speaking , attempt to remove the seeds for the reasons noted above . @stephenmacdonald , most dessert recipes that call for a fine mesh strainer do so because there is the possibility of chunky things ending up in the product . In the case of that recipe , I would guess it is to prevent chunks of undissolved gelatine from ending up in the final dessert .
Couverture chocolate is generally used in coating and molding because it has such a nice sheen due to its high cocoa butter content . It 's usually very high quality and so should taste very good straight out of the bag , although the texture will be more creamy than non couverture chocolates . Couverture is not better than other high quality chocolate , just for a specific application . You wo n't find much chocolate candy made from it , that 's not because the chocolate is n't good stuff , it simply that the effect the makers intend requires a lower level of cocoa butter . As for how to tell good quality chocolate from poor quality the best way to tell is to taste it .
You ca n't add too much chocolate into a cake , as you 'll end up adding too much fat , which will change how the cake sets up . They likely wanted more chocolate flavor than what they felt they could get from chocolate alone , and so opted to add cocoa powder as well .
Wilting in greens is triggered by temperature , pH , and salt content . To reduce wilting , you can cool the vegetables or shrimp , make the vegetables more acidic * , or decrease their salt content . My suggestion would be to cool the shrimp with an ice water bath or cold running water . This is the most traditional approach for shrimp salad . Alternately , you could apply an acidic dressing before topping , but wait to salt it until the shrimp have cooled to 140F . Alternately , wilting of vegetables adds a rather interesting variation in flavor or texture to a salad . This technique has been desirable and in vogue at various times . Why does this all happen ? Plant cells wilt when cooking breaks apart the cellulose-based cell walls , and allows water to escape , causing them to soften . To quote On Food and Cooking ( pp 282 ) : When the tissue reaches 140F/60C , the cell membranes are damaged , the cells lose water and deflate , and the tissue as a whole goes from firm and crisp to limp and flabby . Acids will impede wilting , because the cell walls are held together with hemicellulose , and it is " not very soluble in an acid environment " ( pp 282 ) . Table salt is a problem , because " its sodium ions displace the calcium ions that cross-link and anchor the cement molecules in the fruits and vegetable walls , thus breaking the cross-links and helping dissolve the hemicelluloses " ( pp 283 ) . Calcium has the opposite affect , so if you can use hard water or add calcium salts , do so . * Acidic solutions will reduce green colors ( On Food and Cooking , pp 280-281 ) , but preserve texture ( 282 ) .
This is a combination of the type of cheese and too much heat . Some cheeses melt more readily ( mozzarella for example ) , but all of them will seize up if they are heated too much too fast - the proteins ' curl up ' and separate from the fat and water in the cheese . To combat this , you should chop or grate the cheese up to speed up melting , and lower the heat a little before adding it . You should also avoid using cheese straight from the fridge .
Why Vanilla ??? Vanilla is a rich and powerful flavor , with over 200 flavor compounds besides the basic vanillin . Due to its complexity and neutral flavor , it can be combined with a plethora of other flavors without conflicting . It just provides a good neutral base to build on . The vanilla also enriches the products if they are combined with additional flavorings , adding body and depth to the final result . Ok , so Vanilla makes sense , but why add ANY flavoring ? On their own , sweet products may not have much flavor ( remember , ice cream is just milk , sugar , and cream ) . Vanilla gives them a little flavor as a starting point . It also masks any unpleasant flavors present as a result of ingredients . For example , truly unflavored yogurt has a fairly strong lactic acid flavor of its own ; this is something where you can get a TRULY unflavored yogurt and see what I mean . It 's a whole different animal , and brings to mind that it 's simply soured milk . Carbonated water similarly has a fairly unpleasant bite to it when no flavoring is added , as a result of the carbon dioxide reacting with water to produce carbonic acid . Why ca n't I find stuff without ANY flavoring ? You can , if you know where to look ! The truly unflavored products are generally used differently than their vanilla-flavored " unflavored " counterparts . Club soda / seltzer water is simply unflavored soda , and is stored with the stuff for mixed drinks , since that 's where it is normally used . Unflavored yogurt is used in cooking savory Mediterranean dishes , and may be to the side of the flavored yogurts . As the comment mentions , unflavored ice cream is available as sweet cream . I ca n't think of any other normally-vanilla flavored products , but if you can come up with some , I can probably find them for you under a different name .
end question
start question
What kind of meat to use for Wiener Schnitzel ?
The real , original Wiener Schnitzel is veal . Definitely . I ca n't link to a web source now , but I have some German cook books at home , including one solely about different kinds of schnitzel . From the veal , you use parts 6 , 7 and 11 for any kind of schnitzel , 7 being the best and highest-prized choice . I do n't know the English names , maybe somebody can supply them . Also , try using leaner meat . I think that in the US , the fat marbled beef is considered higher quality . But in Europe , lean beef is preferred . A good beef schnitzel has maybe 3 % fat . This said , there are lots of places which cook pork schnitzels in the Wiener style and call them Wiener Schnitzel . It is n't traditional , but if you like the taste , there is nothing against doing it that way at home . They come from the same parts of the pig as the veal schnitzel : the ham and the lower back . Again , they should be very lean . And in both cases , unlike a steak , a schnitzel is always boneless .
I 'm by no means an official source , but it looks like a long grain rice is used . <URL> shows an example made with <URL> , and links to <URL> , which calls for long grain rice .
The resultant cheese in your first link will be a fresh , soft cheese , nothing like either of the Parmesan or cheddar cheeses mentioned in your second link . It is also an acid-based cheese , not a made with either rennet or bacterial cultures as are most other cheeses . Parmesan is a very long aged cheese . Cheddar is a. . . well ... cheddared cheese ( cheddaring is a process which reduces the moisture content of the curds ) that is then aged for varying periods of time . The fresh cheese in your first link will not serve you well in the same roles as either Parmesan or Cheddar . While I realize these products may not be available easily where you live , they are very distinctive and hard to substitute for with homemade products -- they just also not the kind of cheese that is normally made at home . The home made cheese described is most similar to an unaged feta ( although not goat 's milk ) , or a Mexican queso fresco .
Whipped vegetable shortening with powdered sugar . I can make it up a week in advance , probably even longer , and keep it in an airtight container in a cool place . And it has the advantage that it 's pure white ( if you use imitation vanilla extract , or lemon extract ) , so you can get vibrant colors on whatever you 're decorating . If you make too much , you can then make flowers and let them dry out , then store those for a year or more . Here 's the recipe I use , that I got from Jane who taught two of the cake decorating classes I took : Put all ingredients except the water into a mixer . Add 3/4 c. water , and slowly add more to make the consistancy of your choice . Mix on low speed 'til mixed , then on # 6 or 8 for 6 to 7 minutes . Consistency should be " creamy " -- like cream cheese when soft . Stiff icing should be creamy also .
It is basically the anethole ( a phenol ) of the star anise that react with the sulfur in the onion to create sulfur-phenolic aromatics . In Chinese cuisine the same family of reactions is used with duck and pork . The sulfur-phenols are also produced during the Maillard reaction , the reaction that gives grilled meat its characteristic flavor , so adding star anise to the onions will give your dishes more of that grilled , browned flavor . The reactions of the compounds in the star anise with those in the meat are not the relevant reactions for flavor or texture . From averaging a few recipes , I would say 1 star anise for every 250g of chopped onion . Too much star anise will highlight the other aromas in star anise , so one has to use it in moderation and allow enough time for the reactions to take place . Garam masala , a common Indian spice combination that is used in meat dishes , may have star anise . Star anise is sometimes used in French onion soup -- it intensifies the caramel flavor of the onions -- and in Vietnamese cuisine , which today incorporates French elements .
There are 3 main types of rice huller in use : The oldest , <URL> , takes strength , time and patience . <URL> have been around since the late 1800 's , but high speed ( 5Krpm + ) centrifuges are not consumer devices . They can be quite dangerous if not used correctly . <URL> are probably the most common type today . You do n't see many consumer friendly units around , but rubber based attachments for Corona mills are <URL> Once you get your rice dehulled , you 'll need to separate the chaff . There are lots of ways to do that , <URL>
I would go with hickory ; it always taste strong , and it is the best for me .
I cook 'em on medium-high heat in butter until they 're browned and crisped to my liking . I do n't cover - that seems to result in soggier mushrooms than I prefer .
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
You should get a carbon steel wok with two short handles ( not one long handle ) . You want the steel to build up a patina of oxidized oils , which rules out stainless steel and aluminum and non-stick . You could conceivably get a cast-iron wok , but those are really heavy . You want the two small handles so you can pick up the wok , but you do n't want long handles that will dump hot oil or food everywhere if you bump them . Unlike a saute pan , you do n't toss the pan , you toss the food . ( Tossing the pan pulls it away from the flame , which is bad when stir-frying ! ) Your best bet is to go to an Asian grocery . You 'll be assured of getting a product at a good price . Should n't cost more than $ 25 , I do n't think . Oh , one other question is what sort of stove you have . If you have an electric stove , ( a ) I 'm sorry , and ( b ) you have to get a flat-bottomed wok . If you have a gas stove , you can either get a flat-bottomed wok or a round-bottomed wok , but the latter only if you get a wok ring that holds the pan just above the flame . You want as much heat going into that pan as you possibly can manage !
Browning ingredients ( both meat and vegetables including the aromatics ) before doing a braise or stew ( which is what slow cookers do ) helps develop depth of flavor , through the <URL> where proteins and carbohydrates react together to create a myriad of flavorful compounds . Vegetables that are high in sugar , such as onions or leeks , and even carrots may also have some <URL> , where sugars react with each other , again creating flavorful compounds . Especially with beef , these deep browned flavors are often what people associate with the product , and what they expect to taste . On the other hand , browning almost by definition overcooks the outside of meat well past well done , so it is somewhat drier and tougher , although this can be mitigated by a long braise Some experts recommend browning only on one side of cubed meat , to compromise between getting flavor development , and getting good texture . The one thing browning or searing does n't do is " seal in the juices " ; that is a myth that is well de-bunked . The choice to brown or not brown is one of taste and balance . It is traditional in many recipes , especially of Western European heritage . There are many traditions where browning is not as frequent , including true Mexican cuisine and many Asian cuisines . Choose what seems most appropriate and tasty to you in a given dish . Personally , I like the flavor development , and almost always opt for browning .
The real , original Wiener Schnitzel is veal . Definitely . I ca n't link to a web source now , but I have some German cook books at home , including one solely about different kinds of schnitzel . From the veal , you use parts 6 , 7 and 11 for any kind of schnitzel , 7 being the best and highest-prized choice . I do n't know the English names , maybe somebody can supply them . Also , try using leaner meat . I think that in the US , the fat marbled beef is considered higher quality . But in Europe , lean beef is preferred . A good beef schnitzel has maybe 3 % fat . This said , there are lots of places which cook pork schnitzels in the Wiener style and call them Wiener Schnitzel . It is n't traditional , but if you like the taste , there is nothing against doing it that way at home . They come from the same parts of the pig as the veal schnitzel : the ham and the lower back . Again , they should be very lean . And in both cases , unlike a steak , a schnitzel is always boneless .
You can look for a CSA in your area , <URL> : CSAs consist of a system of weekly delivery or pick-up of vegetables and fruit in a vegetable box scheme , sometimes including dairy products and meat . You can use <URL> to try to find one in your area .
Asian shrimp paste is fermented and very strong and salty -- I do n't think it 's going to give you the same kind of flavor as dried shrimp at all .
Typically veggies are onions , carrots , celery , leeks , garlic , shallots , etc. . Throw in some peppercorns , also , and a <URL> . You can add most other veggies , too , and mushrooms , but avoid adding things that give a strong ( bad ) flavour after cooked for a long time ( broccoli , brussels sprouts , cauliflower , etc. ) .
It depends how you like your rice . Personally I like my fried rice to have a few sticky lumps through it to add texture . Others may like it completely ' separated ' . It 's really up to you . I usually use a combination of long grain and Basmati . Another point is to make sure your rice is safe - it needs to be cooled relatively quickly , and kept cool , to prevent the growth of Bacillus cereus , which can cause serious ( no pun intended ) food poisoning . As it happens , fried rice is much better when cooked with cold rice and very hot oil anyway , so it 's a good idea to keep it cool in any case .
The flavor is described as being very mild and unless the recipe calls for a ton of the stuff it is probably being used mostly for color . The color it gives is a yellow-orange . Substitutions used are turmeric , paprika , or a mixture of the two . It was often used itself as a substitution for saffron but of course saffron would be too expensive to make the substitution back . If your recipe does use a lot of annatto ( or you are serving it to people who claim to be able to detect the difference ) then your best bet would probably be to just buy it online . It is a seed so it is n't fragile and ships well . <URL>
Two things - If the marinade is very strong or salty then the meat could simply become over flavored . If the marinade includes a meat digesting enzyme such as papain then leaving it too long could turn the meat to mush .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
Any recipe where the water is part of a sauce or is expected to be absorbed ( including rice , couscous , and yes , pasta too ) , you can use stock instead to increase the deliciousness . If you have an opportunity to add flavour , why waste it ? Of course , there are some caveats to consider when making the substitution : Stock is going to contain a certain amount of gelatin ( how much depends on how the stock is made ) . This is often a good thing , leading to a richer mouth-feel , but if the thickening effect would be detrimental to your recipe , then do n't use stock . Stock can clash with other flavours , although less often than you 'd expect , since it 's effectively a mega-dose of umami . In particular I 'd probably avoid using it in recipes that are either very sour ( sour meat is the taste of rancidity and highly displeasing ) or very sweet ( since the sugar will overwhelm the flavour of the stock ) . So do n't use it in your candies or in your pickling solutions , but any dish based primarily on meats , vegetables , and grains , is definitely fair game . Because it 's a meat product , it has a limited life span . I would n't recommend substituting it for water in anything that 's going to sit in the fridge for several days and/or be re-frozen , due to food safety concerns . Oh , and I probably would n't use it in baking . The effects of using homemade stock when the primarily role of the liquid is to develop gluten would be unpredictable , to say the least . And somehow the thought of turkey-flavoured cake just does n't sound very appealing to me . As for the right ratio - that depends entirely on what went into the stock , how long it was simmered for and whether or not the stock itself was reduced prior to storing/freezing . You 're definitely going to want the same total amount of liquid , but if the stock is highly gelatinous then you might want to dilute it , and conversely , if the stock is very weak then you might want to reduce it . There really is no golden ratio , but I 'd probably stick with 1:1 for a " typical " stock .
end question
start question
What 's the role of milk or yogurt in sponge cake ?
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
Classification and use of Stocks vs. Broth : Broths are the result of cooking meat , not just bones . They 're generally the result of preparing another item and usually not prepared specifically on their own . The juices poured off from a roasted turkey ( after being degreased ) would be considered broth . Whole chickens being poached for another preparation would create broth . Stocks are made from just the bones . They are prepared specifically for use in other recipes ( sauces , soups , stews , rice , etc. ) Stocks are never salted in their preparation or the finished dish will most likely end up too salty due to reduction that will take place upon further cooking . Note that homemade stock will be often a bit more broth-like than restaurant/commercial stocks , since it 's really hard to get all the meat off the bones . Stocks are usually simmered for a very long time ( 4-6 hours for chicken &amp; 8-12 for veal/beef ) to extract maximum flavor and gelatin from the bones . Broths are n't usually cooked nearly as long due to the fact that cooking the meat for extended periods ( even chicken surrounded by the liquid ) will result in tough , flavorless meat . Consomme : a fortified and clarified stock . The stock is fortified in flavor by the addition of a " raft " which is a combination of lean ground meat ( appropriate to the type of stock being used ) with brunoise ( 1/16 inch ) mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) , and egg whites . The raft mixture is stirred into the cold stock and as it gently heats , the proteins coagulate forming a " raft " on top of the stock . A small hole is poked in the center ( if one has n't already formed ) and as the stock bubbles through the hole it leaches back through the ground meat/egg white raft which filters out impurities to clarify the stock and fortify it with flavor . Bouillon : French word for broth . Court Bouillon : sometimes called a " short broth " . A poaching liquid usually used for fish that is usually comprised of water , acid ( lemon juice , vinegar , wine ) , parsley stems , bay leaves , peppercorns , and some salt . When to use Stock vs. Broth : Use stock when a sauce is to be reduced significantly or when clarity of the final result is preferred . Broths can be substituted for stock when the body of the liquid or clarity is n't important , and when the liquid will be thickened by addition of a starch .
Never down the drain . We 've had a few incidents in my neighborhood where the sewer pipes were clogged with fat , and a few people 's basements flooded with sewage as a result . For fats that solidify , let them do so , then pitch them in your regular garbage . Chill grease in the fridge if you need to get it to harden up . For ones that do n't solidify , pour them into a sealable ( <URL> ) bottle , and throw the whole container away with your regular garbage . It 's possible that your area might accept cooking fats &amp; oils as part of a recycling effort . Ours does for motor oil ( I live in Maryland ) . For restaurants , some places ( eg , the state of Maryland ) require a system for catching grease that 's been washed down the sink . It 's my understanding that they 're fairly expensive ( a couple thousand dollars US ) , but the fines for not having one installed may be even more , and they wo n't let new restaurants open without one .
The biggest reason to heat milk to almost boiling before fermenting is that it improves the texture of the yogurt . During fermentation the bacteria consume lactose and produce lactic acid which causes the milk proteins to denature and coagulate trapping most of the fat . The proteins involved are primarily the casein proteins . When this happens , there is still quite a bit of protein left that is n't bound up in the new casein mesh . All of the albumin proteins are water soluble and will not add to the structure of the yogurt . These albumin proteins denature when they are heated . For this reason recipes universally call for the milk to be heated to 190 and then cooled . The albumin is denatured and is able to tangle up with the casein during fermentation and add to the yogurt structure . Skipping this step will make a very profound difference to the structure of your yogurt . Without it your yogurt will be thinner and much more fragile . When you scoop it there will be more whey and all that albumin will wash out in it . According to Harold McGee ( On Food and Cooking pp 48 ) " These treatments improve the consistency of the yogurt by denaturing the whey protein lactoglobulin , whose otherwise unreactive molecules then participate by clustering on the surfaces of the casein particles . With the helpful interference of the lactoglobulins , the casein particles can only bond to each other at a few spots , and so gather not in clusters but in a fine matrix of chains that is much better at retaining liquid in its small interstices . "
This is not yogurt per definition , you are making a fresh cheese . You can actually use other types of milk for such a cheese , but the mouthfeel and taste will be very different and wo n't be as similar to yogurt . There is a large class of acid-curdled cheeses , including paneer , tvorog , quark and many others . I do n't know if yours has a specific name . I know that there are people who for some reason ca n't tell the difference in taste betwen quark and yogurt . But it is still cheese , even if it tastes similar to yogurt .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
The advertised reason is that the alcohol will cut some of the protein chains resulting in a fondue that is dippable and not so stringy . Obviously the alcoholic beverage of choice will also add a lot of cheese-compatible flavor as well . Fondue recipes that do n't include alcohol universally call for acid to achieve a similar effect .
There are two choices when flavoring yogurt : <URL> . If you want to make a batch of yogurt and choose your flavors later you may enjoy adding coconut extract ( or other extracts ) after the fact . However , if you are set on a single flavor ( as your question implies ) you will get better results adding a flavoring oil , the chemistry of oils vs. alcohol seem to react differently . Check out the " <URL> " link , he has done some experimenting that will help you along .
Refrigerated coconut-based milk substitutes like Silk Pure Coconut or So Delicious Coconut Milk have a stated lifespan of 7-10 days after opening . I 've had cartons last longer than that without any change in taste or smell , but if it started tasting bad or smelling funky I would toss it . Unfortunately , this type of coconut milk product does not reconstitute well after freezing .
Overly sour yogurt is a sign of inconsistent inoculation Check the type of culture you are using , and ensure you are keeping the yogurt above 37C for more than six hours . The yogurt should finish as a solid lump that resists pouring , not a thick liquid , or a lumpy paste Pouring off the whey and straining the yogurt makes it more creamy and taste sweeter Thickeners are not required , just complete inoculation For sweet yogurt dishes I mostly use sour berries ( blackberry , raspberry etc ) so it is expected to be somewhat sour anyway
Soy sauce , sake or mirin and sugar are the usual ingredients in a teriyaki sauce . The rice wines in particular are vital for an authentic teriyaki flavour . So the question is somewhat moot : onions are n't usually found in teriyaki sauce anyway . The onions naturally add flavour to your marinade : if you like it , leave them in , if you do n't , take them out . The onions wo n't have any major chemical effect on the marination process . Personally I would ditch the olive oil , replace it with toasted sesame oil and add garlic and ginger for a more rounded and authentically flavoured East Asian marinade .
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
Well , it makes the eggs go further for one ... But it also produces softer , creamier results . You 're moving toward something like a custard or quiche . If you like your eggs very stiff , this is probably a bad idea .
<URL> Sugar balances both salty and sour flavors in dishes . Adding just a little sugar makes salty things taste less salty and sour things taste less sour , without actually reducing the amount of salt or acid in the recipe . For example , the liquid base of the Pad Thai recipe I follow contains chili powder , fish sauce , tamarind , and light palm sugar . The palm sugar balances out the sour from the tamarind and the salt from the fish sauce . Without it , the noodles would come out too sour and too salty . I do n't know the physiological reasons for this . Would be interesting to hear them if someone knew ...
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
Any time you see something like " may contain " after an ingredient list , it 's a warning that it might contain trace amounts of that substance and so could be harmful to anyone who 's allergic to it . Basically what they 're saying is that they did n't intentionally add any milk or milk products to the cocoa butter , but since they make other products at the same factory that use milk they ca n't guarantee that some has n't slipped in somehow . So assuming that cocoa butter is the only ingredient then it would be pure cocoa butter , at least by the legal definition .
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
The wrap used in most grocery stores is n't the same as your household wrap . Most of the consumer brands of plastic " cling " wrap are now formulated from low-density polyethylene . It 's rolled very thin to give you the best price per unit of length , and has reasonable stickyness . Most stores use a product called " meat film " which is most commonly made from PVC . It 's a little thicker , more wrinkle-resistant to give the product contained inside a better appearance , and it 's stickier . The other thing that grocery stores do to make the seal better is they use a heat sealer on the plastic . These are heated pads where they 'll place a wrapped piece of plastic for a few seconds . It 's not enough heat to melt the plastic , so in most cases you can still pull it apart , but it is just enough to shrink the joint together , and pull it taut across the front of the packaging .
No , milk in and of itself does not prevent cakes from rising . There is noting in milk that changes the action of baking powder or baking soda . Just yesterday , for example , I made chocolate muffins with 1/2 cup of milk , chemically leavened , and they rose beautifully . There has to be some other factor involved , but you would need to add much more detail to your question in order to have a chance at identifying it .
end question
start question
Correct knife to use for portioning raw salmon ?
I think a bread knife would shred the skin and flesh . I would place skin side down and , ideally , use a sharp slicing knife . Sharp is the key . I have also used a chef 's knife and a fillet knife for this task . The goal is to achieve a clean cut .
If you cut it with a knife , you 'll tend to get a very smooth surface . If you tear it open , whether by hand or with the aid of a fork , it 'll tend to break on more natural places in the crumb , giving a bit rougher surface . When toasted , that tends to result in more contrast of texture - the bits sticking up will brown more and get crunchier .
The bowl is n't absolutely essential ; it 's part of the aesthetic . The shape does serve a purpose , as most of them have nicely curved bottoms that will minimize the chance of the powder from clumping near the edge of the bowl . I 've used a normal whisk when preparing " matcha latte " drinks for a client of mine back in the day . There 's an advantage to having the 80-120 " tate " ( bristle ? ) because they make it easier to break up beads that form as moisture contacts the tea . But a normal culinary whisk will do the trick , perhaps with a bit more work . I do n't see how the silicone brush would help whisking ; they tend to be pretty floppy ( and mine has occasionally had some of the silicone strands break off when I 've used it for brushing food ) .
You should use both . Knives have a very thin ragged edge ( the burr ) that is too small to see , which gets pushed over from use , and which makes the knife seem dull . A honing steel straightens this burr out . I use a honing steel before I cook every day . Over time , the burr wears down , or can no longer be straightened . At this point , you will need to use the sharpener , which actually removes metal from the blade . One metaphor would be that if your knife was carpet , honing is like vacuuming , and sharpening is like steam cleaning .
There is some slight confusion but there are two methods for this . You either cook the egg separately , which is how they make BiBimBop or you poach or bake the eggs if you cook the egg on top of your food . With the latter method , the eggs generally cook very quickly so it does n't take a lot of time but you are still cooking the egg using a heat source , you are not relying on the food to cook the egg for you . When you make BiBimBop using a whole egg , you fry the egg in a pan before you place it on top of the food . This is why the egg often has a bit of browning around the edges of the white . Here 's an image of a BiBimBop with a whole egg : <URL> There is a " how to make BiBimBop " video <URL> that shows ( around 8:50 in ) that you cook the egg separately and place it on top of the finished bowl . The other option is to bake or poach the egg by placing them on top of the food ( which is still on the stove ) and then covering the pan ( or putting it in the oven ) to essentially steam the egg , which is often used for hash . This gives a different final product than frying the egg and placing it on top , as the steam will cook the top of the egg while the still-cooking food heats the bottom . Here 's a <URL> of Venison Hash where they use this method at around 5:05 . And here 's a <URL> that uses the oven version of this method . <URL>
I discussed a similar subject in this question : <URL> Raw fish is n't safe to eat if it 's just been sitting around . However , the raw fish used in sushi/sashimi has been frozen ( typically flash-frozen ) in order to kill any parasites , making it as safe as any other food . Most distributors of sashimi also have their own methods and internal regulations to ensure food safety , but specifics are understandably hard to come by . Suffice it to say , it 's far safer to eat properly-prepared nigiri or sashimi than it is to eat an undercooked hamburger .
Drinking chocolate is a bad way to flavor a cake . It consists of cocoa powder mixed with sugar , and has nowhere near enough chocolate taste . The correct way to flavor a cake is either baking chocolate ( the real thing , not " fat-containing cocoa glaze " ) , or cocoa powder . You should choose the one to use depending on the recipe ; do n't just add it to a normal sponge cake recipe , both change the texture . Cocoa powder is easier to use , as it will only add starch to the cake . Baking chocolate will give you a richer texture due to the cocoa butter it contains , but finding a good recipe for it is more complicated , as the classic proportions have to be adjusted not only for the starch , but also for the fat and sugar it adds . Also , the fat it adds ca n't be creamed , which interferes with leavening , and it has to be melted before adding it to the cake , which requires some skill ( mostly temperature control ) and is something I would recommend for an intermediate rather than a beginner baker . In short , find a good recipe which uses cocoa powder . Drinking chocolate is not only prohibitively expensive , it also gives an inferior result . After you feel more comfortable with cake baking , you can consider advancing to recipes which include baking chocolate . My personal favorite are Desaulniers ' recipes , but the Gourmet magazine recipes are probably more accessible , as many of them are freely available online ( try searching on Epicurious ) . You can also look around for other sources ; I would advise against trying out random recipes off the Internet before you have gathered enough experience to be able to judge the quality of the results by just reading the recipe .
Based on your edit to your question , and with some additional thought , I 'm going to answer this differently . Soured milk differs from what you called " spoiled " milk in only one way - what wild bacteria reproduced faster : bacteria with tasty waste products or bacteria with disgusting waste products . With that in mind the major potential problems with using this milk to make yogurt are : If the wild bacteria crowd out the yogurt culture If the yogurt culture is not able to work because the milk is too sour . In making homemade yogurt neither of these should be a problem . In making all yogurt - including yogurt made from raw milk in commercial settings - the milk is heated to 190F for some time to denature albumin proteins and to partially sterilize the milk so that the yogurt cultures will have the upper hand . This means that all yogurt has been pasteurized and the fact that the milk was purchased raw is a red herring . This will make problem # 1 above unlikely . Not heating the milk will leave you with @rumtscho 's answer - you can only guess what you might get by incubating it . As for problem # 2 . Milk proteins begin to coagulate at a Ph of about 4.6 . The target Ph for yogurt is usually 4.5 . When making yogurt , Streptococcus thermophilus brings the milk down to about 5.0 and Lactobacillus Acidophilus takes over and brings it down to 4.5 . Lactobacillus Acidophilus is active well below this Ph. Therefore , if your milk is not already thickened then it is , by definition , not too acidic for the yogurt culture to work . Unfortunately , as the commenter from your first link indicated , heat combined with acid will cause the milk to prematurely denature . If you milk is too sour already then heating it to 190F may cause the protein to precipitate out and you would have paneer ( sort of ) . I looked but was unable to find at what Ph milk proteins will denature at 190F . <URL> <URL> If you can strictly verify the handling of your raw milk to have confidence that it has not been contaminated with harmful bacteria , and if the milk has only slightly soured so that it can be heated without breaking , you should be able to successfully make yogurt out of it knowing that the texture might vary from that of your starter .
For something like a drink , I generally bruise the mint and use the whole leaves fresh - rub it between your fingers a bit to release the oils and then just drop it in the drink . The main benefit of this method for me is that a bunch of dry , crumbled mint in a drink is going to make it look very muddled and hard to drink , as you 're constantly getting a mouthful of dried leaves ( you could get around this by steeping it with the dried herbs and then straining it , but that 's too much work ! ) . As a bonus , fresh picked herbs in a nice glass of lemonade , for example , just looks so fresh and tasty ! If I 'm cooking with it and I have a supply of fresh on hand , I prefer to use that . Depending on the dish , it might be whole leaves , but more likely chopped - I actually use kitchen scissors for a lot of fresh herb preparation as it can be easier than a knife in many cases . You certainly can dry it , especially at the end of season when you need to harvest , and use the dried leaves in place of fresh . The main benefit to drying is that it stores really well ; dry also seems to be a bit more powerful , at least when first dried . Over time the flavor of dried herbs will degrade . You usually use a 3 to 1 ratio replacement - if a dish calls for 1 tablespoon of fresh mint , you 'd use 1 teaspoon of dried , though as the dried herbs age you 'll have to increase the amount used over time .
You will need a standard curved 10 " butcher knife . You can not cut a proper steak with a straight-bladed chef 's knife , as the blade will not contact the cutting board at the proper angle . The knife needs to be sharp . A sharp knife is less likely to cut you than a dull one because the handler will not have to fight with it . Also , please observe all safety regulations and common sense when using a dangerous instrument like a butcher knife . Here is an image of standard curved 10 " butcher knife : <URL> <URL>
Not being aware of your location , some general tips : 1 ) Buy your fish from a fishmonger , and tell him/her what you are using it for . You want to do business with somebody who 's business is selling fish and only selling fish . They are going to know what 's been stored to eaten raw standards in a way that the just above minimum wage fish guy at your grocery store does n't . 2 ) Do n't buy it early . Buy it the day you mean to consume it or the day that you going to prep it . This question can help walk you through <URL> 3 ) Take a cooler to get your fish . You have to maintain the freshness , that means not allowing it raise in temperature anymore than you have to .
From this <URL> The key to slicing and portioning foie is to treat it like a rich mousse-cake : Make sure to heat up your knife under running water in between every slice . A cold knife will catch and stick in the foie , causing it to tear or crumble . A hot knife will melt the fat as it goes through , leaving you with clean , smooth surfaces to sear .
That 's all there is to it . It seems you already know this , but just to be sure , be aware that " blackened " refers to the spice and not any burning or charring that is done . Burnt spices taste horrendous .
Answer : No oil . I do n't use oil . I use a non-stick pan or I grill it in oven . I do n't understand why people are using oil to do injustice to salmon . I want the salmon to be firm and not mushy . I already face the problem of having to take care of the juice/oil flowing out of the salmon . I do n't want more fluid added which would further mushify the fish . Pan-poaching : Place the slice of salmon on its skin , on the pan . Gradually turn the heat up to moderate . As the skin-side gradually becomes firm , turn the slice over . When the other side also becomes firm , turn the slice back to face the skin-side down to brown the skin on strong heat . The problem I face is too much juice/oil exuding from the salmon . Continually notice if salmon juice/oil is flowing out , to drain the juice/oil into a bowl . After cooking salmon is complete , place salmon into serving plate and the pour salmon juice back into pan . Add diced garlic , chopped cilantro and onions . Or use pre-fried onions bought from Vietnamese store . Stir fry for 2-3 minutes . Resultant is a nice gravy to be used as topping for the salmon . Sprinkle blue cheese bits . Broiling ( set the oven to broil ) : Place salmon skin facing up on oven pan . For soft steak : use a smaller pan so that the juice/oil that flows out would not spread out to be being burnt away by the heat . So that the juice/oil keeps the salmon moist and soft . For firm poach : Drain the pan frequently . Use various apparatus to elevate the pan so that the salmon is 1 inch away from the top heating element of the oven . Turn oven to 180 F for 30 minutes . This is to firm up the salmon and let its initial flow of juice/oil out of the salmon . Then turn the oven up to 240F till the fish is cooked . Gently separate the skin from the fish without injuring the flesh . Broil the skin at 350F till it becomes crispy . Crispy salmon skin biscuit = heavens ! The crispy salmon skin must be eaten within 30 minutes - otherwise , it would soon absorb moisture and becomes flaccid . See , no oil involved ( other than the oil exuding from the fish ) .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
Absolutely not . A honing steel is significantly harder than the blade of a knife and is specially textured for honing . Rubbing two knives together is more likely to dull or knick the blades than anything else . The blade of a knife should never touch anything harder than a wooden cutting board . Not glass , not granite , and certainly not steel ( except for honing/sharpening ) .
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
I usually notice when cutting onions and tomatoes . With a very sharp knife cutting an onion does n't cause much tears at all . As it dulls though it does more crushing than slicing which releases more gas into the air , which makes you cry more . Ripe tomatoes help because they are so tender . If it becomes difficult to slice a tomato without crushing it , your knife is too dull . A well used , properly cared for knife should require sharpening every 6-18 months , depending on usage . Mine get sharpened yearly . You may find it beneficial to read these related questions , and their answers : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's no question that a 4 or 5 inch utility knife is going to see a lot less use than your chef 's knife or your paring knife , both of which have innumerable uses . The utility knife is a lot more specific , really being for cases where the paring knife is too short and the chef 's knife is too heavy or thick . I have a 4 " utility knife , which ( of course ) I got for free with a 6 " Sabatier chef 's knife . It gets used a couple times a week , for : scoring onions in order to mince them cutting limes in half ( a chef 's knife seems like overkill here ) splitting small peppers slicing large California shallots cutting cheese ... and similar occasional , accessory uses . Part of the problem with the 4 " utility knife is that it 's really a dwarf 6 " -8 " utility knife . The 6 " or 8 " utility knife , now commonly called a " vegetable knife " , is far more useful ; the long , thin blade is excellent for making paper-thin vegetable and fruit slices , and can be used as a fileting knife if you do n't have one . At the 4 " size , though , the utility knife is useful only for cutting things which happen to be small , and only if you do n't already have a more general knife dirty . If what you 're really asking is " can I get rid of this knife ? " , the answer is " yes " .
end question
start question
How do I leave fried eggs intact ?
The easiest way is just like this . <URL> but with broken yolks and more time . This pan would would be perfect if it had a lid that fits , but this lid will be do the trick . Your pan should be non-stick with sloping sides , 8 " is perfect for 2 eggs , but larger is fine too . I set the heat to one click below medium [ YMMV * ] , and give the burner and pan a good 2 minutes to heat up . Add the butter and let it reach the point that it stops sizzling . When the butter stops sizzling , add the eggs . To keep track for this answer , I set my timer at this point . Let them cook uncovered until the bottom is opaque , about 1 minute . Add about 1 tablespoon of water and cover . So far everything is just like the prior answer for sunny side up eggs . Let the eggs steam until they start to get a bit of white on top , about 1 more minute . Now poke the yolks and use a spoon to baste the top of the eggs with hot butter , replace the lid . Let them cook until they are as hard as you like them . Mine looked just about done at 3.5 minutes . Had I just let them cook one more minute , covered , they would have been fine and ready to plate . You do n't need to flip . If you do choose to flip , do n't do it until they eggs are very close to being done . You can use a spatula if you like , but I much prefer the pan-flip . He demonstrates it here at 3:05 . <URL> Just be sure that your eggs are easily sliding around before you flip . The guy in the video makes it seem harder than it is . Since your yolks are already broken , it 's really super easy if you have a non-stick pan with sloping sides and plenty of butter . So I flipped at 3.5 minutes , then covered and let them go for 30 more seconds . Pro trick : before you plate the eggs , use a paper towel to wipe any extra butter out of the pan , then just tilt the eggs out of the pan onto the plate , that makes for a tidy presentation . I never touched a spatula to these eggs . * YMMV Your Mileage May Vary
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
If you have one , a potato ricer is very effective at removing moisture from things that do n't drain effectively with gravity alone , e.g. sauerkraut , cooked spinach , salted cabbage , salted squash/marrow , etc. . In my experience , it 's more effective , and easier to clean , than a salad spinner . <URL> ( For best results , look for the kind that 's pictured above , with holes only on the bottom , not the sides . Otherwise , you 're liable to end up shooting sauerkraut juice halfway across your kitchen . )
Also , I would add that I tend to cook in batches , rather than overfilling the pan . So using a large deep skillet put enough in to cover about 2/3 of the base , and cook on high heat til browned etc. . Then I put it into a warmed bowl as I cook the next batch , until I have a full bowl of cooked mince , which I can then put back into the pan to simmer and turn into whatever the end dish is .
Egg whites need to be heated up to a certain temperature in order to coagulate ( " set " ) . Lowering the pH ( increasing the acidity ) of the cooking liquid is one way to lower the temperature required for coagulation of the egg whites . So , in a way , this does prevent " feathering " of the eggs , but not because of any direct reaction ; rather , the reason the eggs feather less is because they have less time to feather , because they do n't need to get as hot . Any acidic liquid will have a similar effect . White vinegar is probably the most effective , but you could also add lemon juice or wine to the poaching liquid . In fact , eggs poached in red wine sauce ( " Oeufs en Meurette " ) is quite a popular preparation method . For reference , the coagulation temperature is also proportional to the salinity ( add salt to lower the coagulation temperature , add sugar to raise it ) , and inversely proportional to the number of eggs used ( more eggs = lower coagulation temperature ) .
The method I used in the past ( which might not be the best way ) is to lightly fry the food initially , drain it of all oils , and put it in the refridgerator until it is almost time to serve the large amount of food . Then you can finish deep frying the batches . The initial frying will dramatically reduce the time it takes to refry each batch . I found this was the best solution for myself as I was able to serve hot and ( almost ) fresh out of the deep fryer food to a large group of people at lot faster . I think the result is way better than if you had to store the fully deep fried food for 2 hours and had to reheat it up somehow .
While you could probably do dried blueberries in a VERY low oven ( 150F ) , you 'll most likely need to prop the door open slightly to allow moisture to escape . You 'd be best to do them in an actual food dehydrator which will have a fan to expell the moisture being released from the food . Keep in mind however that if dried as they are , they will shrivel up into fairly hard little bits . If your goal is something similar to the dried blueberries that you can buy in retail stores , they will have to be treated in a sugar syrup to maintain the chewy texture and keep them from totally drying out . I 'm not sure if the commercial producers are first drying and then soaking in a sugar solution and perhaps drying again so that the sugar is drawn into the cells of the berry . Whatever the case ... commercial dried cranberries and blueberries maintain the chewy texture due to being treated with a sugar solution at some point . If you are looking for ways to handle a bumper crop or bulk buy on blueberries , I would recommend freezing them and stick to buying commercially processed dried berries for the best results , least effort , and greatest bang for your buck .
There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice : Day Old <URL> ( Make it the day before , let it cool , place it in the fridge ) This I 'd say is absolutely , the main thing . The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice . There will be too much moisture . HEAT ! Your <URL> needs to be hot . You want everything to cook quickly . Cook stuff separately . This is a follow-up from 2 . You want it all to cook very quickly , a crowded pan will hinder that . Cook Meat to 80 % , take it out , cook the other stuff , add the meat back in . Do n't touch it . Unless you have a blazing professional burner , your food needs time against the wok . Put it in , leave it for a bit , mix it some more . Fish Sauce &amp; Chinese Sausage They add great flavour . If it all seems complicated , it really is n't . Use day old rice &amp; give it lots of heat . Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations : <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Rasa Malaysia
Double-yolked eggs are the result of an anomaly in the egg generation process in the hen . They can happen in any breed of hen , on any feed . It is a result of two ova being generated at the same time , and then encapsulated in a single shell . According to <URL> , it happens more often with younger hens . I am not aware of any process to intentionally foster double yolked eggs , but that does n't mean such a thing does n't exist . They are safe to eat , although they may be visually startling .
I 've always done it with my hands . Just do n't let it soak too long , it will still be in one piece and will be generally easy to handle .
( 1 ) Taste . When you salt your eggs DOES affect taste because it affects the way your tongue comes into contact with the salt . If you salt your eggs before or during cooking , some of all of the salt dissolves in the water that is in the eggs ( raw eggs , overall , are roughly 75 % water ) and is dispersed over the surface of your eggs while they cook . When you salt your eggs after cooking , crystals of salt remain on the egg and , when these crystals come into contact with your tongue directly , they produce a brighter salty taste . So basically , the way your tongue registers saltiness depends on concentration , not just amount . Think about how differently a pinch of salt tastes directly on the tongue as opposed to the way that same pinch would taste if dissolved in a drop of water . So ... the tongue registers a brighter salt taste when it comes in contact with salt directly . That does n't mean that salting eggs after cooking is better - it means that it affects perception of salt differently . Go with whichever you prefer personally . ( 2 ) Texture . Whenever I have a question about food science , I consult Harold McGee 's book " On Food and Cooking , The Science and Lore of the Kitchen . " He states unequivocally that salt DOES NOT toughen eggs . According to McGee , the only egg preparation that is harmed by the addition of salt is and egg white foam ( whipped egg whites ) . So from the standpoint of texture , salt whenever you feel called to do so . Controlling the heat when you fry an egg is the single more important factor in determining the texture of your cooked eggs .
This is n't a perfect test , but a magnet wo n't stick to a silver utensil whereas it will stick to most other metal utensils ( i.e. , stainless steel ) .
Indeed , Mr. Zable actually applied for a patent -- US application no . <URL> , filed Sept 13 , 2010 . ( Of course , just because he applied does n't mean the US Patent Office will issue a patent on it . ) His process is , in essence : ( 1 ) gelling a liquid beverage ; and ( 2 ) wraping an aliquot of the gel in a raw " farinaceous dough " , selected from the group of pretzel , pizza , bread , and pasta doughs . The application says he used gelatin as his gelling agent , but the patent ( if it issues ) would not be limited to gelatin . Once wrapped , the raw snack could be fried immediately or frozen for later use .
If you are freezing the tortillas yourself and do n't mind putting in a little extra work in the beginning to get more convenience later , I would separate the tortillas with waxed paper ( actually I use the paper sheets that are waxed on one side , intended for bakeries ) . What this buys you is the ability to pull out one or two tortillas as you need them . They will defrost just fine in the pan that you are going to warm/brown them in anyway . If you customarily run through a dozen tortillas , then you probably do n't want to bother . But if that is the case then you probably are n't freezing your tortillas in the first place .
Yes , ceramic knives are the " new thing , " but that does n't make them superior . The problem with ceramic knives is that you can never sharpen them , and , as mentioned in the comments , they may chip . Do n't get a ceramic chef 's knife or paring knife ; the answer to your question is zero . If you really want a ceramic knife , then buy a ceramic bread knife , although you wo n't be getting any extra performance for the money . Ceramic blade mandolines , however , are great . The ceramic blade will be sharper and hold the edge longer than a steel mandoline , and since you do n't sharpen a mandoline anyway , it does n't matter that ceramic does n't sharpen . Note , a separate , and good , question would be " what knives do I need ? " The answer is it depends , but I concur that you should not buy a " set " of knives .
Moderate heat , eggs at room temperature , non-stick egg pan ( 8 " is good , with gently sloping sides ) with a tight lid . Melt butter in the egg pan until it stops foaming . Crack your eggs into a bowl so you 've got more control when you add them to the egg pan . Cook uncovered until just the bottoms of the white are set , the tops of the whites should still be transparent . Add 1Tbs water for two eggs , cover , check after 45 seconds and give the eggs a jiggle to be sure they will slide neatly out of the pan . They may be ready at this point , they may need another 30 seconds to a minute . EDIT : I 'm hungry anyway : My pan is n't ideal , I 'd rather have 8 " , this one is 10 " but it has a lid . My eggs are at room temperature , I have butter ready and a tablespoon of water . A heat-proof rubber spatula is nice to have , but if everything goes right you do n't even need it . I turn the heat to 1 click out of 10 below medium ( YMMV [ Your Mileage May Vary ] ) . After giving the burner and pan a couple of minutes to heat up it should take room temperature butter about 10 seconds to fully melt and another 5 seconds to stop sizzling . One thing that I like about cracking eggs into a bowl first is that it allows me to better center the yolks . The whites should start to become opaque almost immediately , but they should n't take on any brown color or be sizzling hard , just gently . Once the bottoms of the eggs are completely opaque ( this should take less than 30 seconds ) , add the water and cover immediately . Now the eggs are steaming . Fortyfive seconds and a jiggle later they 're just about there ! ( This is when I 'll add salt and pepper , I 'll wait until they 're plated for the hot sauce I ca n't live without . ) 10 more seconds under the lid , slide onto the plate . Voilà , completely set whites , completely runny yolks . OOPS , I forgot the tiny bit of white on top . That 's easy , using a spoon , give the eggs a quick baste of the hot butter before placing the lid . One more quick note : You may notice that I used quite a bit of butter . That 's just personal preference when my jeans are fitting just fine . You may use much less butter if you prefer , another type of fat , or even just a spray of non-stick spray ( Pam ) . If you use a minimum amount of fat , or even none , the " check and jiggle " step becomes even more important . Make sure you can slide the eggs around in the pan . If they 're sticking at all , this is when the heat-proof rubber ( silicone ) spatula can be very helpful .
Ingredients : Potato starch , tapioca flour , leavening ( calcium lactate [ non-dairy ] , calcium carbonate , citric acid ) , cellulose gum , carbohydrate gum Ener G Egg Replacer has always worked well for me . I keep it in the house for times when I do n't have eggs on hand and want to bake something . There is also recipes like <URL> for vegan pancakes .
I would do two things to make them more palatable . 1 ) Boil the briefly ( 5-10 mins depending on how hard of a veg they are ) in salted water . Something like a tablespoon of kosher salt per 4 quarts water . 2 ) After they are parboiled , I then will saute , simmer , or braise ( depending on the recipe/mood/vegetable ) in a highly flavored sauce or spice mix until they are cooked . So if I was cooking the carrots and ( green/string ? ) beans and wanted to use chili powder I would chop some onion and saute that in olive oil while the other veg parboils . Then , add 1-2 tbls chile powder to the onions ( and maybe some garlic , b/c everything is better w / garlic ) and let those flavors meld while you drain the veg . Once you have the veggies drained add them to the onions and spice w / a bit of liquid ( wine , beer , stock ; maybe 1/2 cup ) and let them cook on low until they are as done as you would like them .
The easiest way is just like this . <URL> but with broken yolks and more time . This pan would would be perfect if it had a lid that fits , but this lid will be do the trick . Your pan should be non-stick with sloping sides , 8 " is perfect for 2 eggs , but larger is fine too . I set the heat to one click below medium [ YMMV * ] , and give the burner and pan a good 2 minutes to heat up . Add the butter and let it reach the point that it stops sizzling . When the butter stops sizzling , add the eggs . To keep track for this answer , I set my timer at this point . Let them cook uncovered until the bottom is opaque , about 1 minute . Add about 1 tablespoon of water and cover . So far everything is just like the prior answer for sunny side up eggs . Let the eggs steam until they start to get a bit of white on top , about 1 more minute . Now poke the yolks and use a spoon to baste the top of the eggs with hot butter , replace the lid . Let them cook until they are as hard as you like them . Mine looked just about done at 3.5 minutes . Had I just let them cook one more minute , covered , they would have been fine and ready to plate . You do n't need to flip . If you do choose to flip , do n't do it until they eggs are very close to being done . You can use a spatula if you like , but I much prefer the pan-flip . He demonstrates it here at 3:05 . <URL> Just be sure that your eggs are easily sliding around before you flip . The guy in the video makes it seem harder than it is . Since your yolks are already broken , it 's really super easy if you have a non-stick pan with sloping sides and plenty of butter . So I flipped at 3.5 minutes , then covered and let them go for 30 more seconds . Pro trick : before you plate the eggs , use a paper towel to wipe any extra butter out of the pan , then just tilt the eggs out of the pan onto the plate , that makes for a tidy presentation . I never touched a spatula to these eggs . * YMMV Your Mileage May Vary
<URL> by Janet Bailey says : Keep stored eggs covered . Eggs readily absorb odors from , and lose moisture to , the air circulating in the refrigerator . The best container for them is the carton you bought them in . Do n't use the open egg racks in the door of the refrigerator . The rack is too warm and unprotected . Store eggs with their broad , rounded ends up . This position helps the chalaza keep the yolk centered in the white , away from the air pocket where it might encounter unfriendly bacteria . The rounded end of the egg is also less likely to break when accidentally bumped . Do n't wash eggs before you store them . If they have been coated in oil , you would be washing away that valuable protection .
end question
start question
How to thicken a Yoghurt based cold sauce ?
The usual way is to use a thickener . Some of them require warming , but others do not . Guar or xanthan gum will work if used in the cold sauce . It is the easiest way . If you do n't have them , yuo can use gelatine , but you 'll have to dissolve it in warm liquid first and then add to the cold sauce , then wait to thicken . None of these will change the taste . If you are from the " no additives " fraction , you can just use a thicker dairy product . I do n't think the heavy whipping cream would be a particularly good fit to yogurt . The best choice would be a fermented product thicker than yogurt , e.g. sour cream or creme fraiche . But you can also use a cheese , although this will change the taste ( without making it bad or too different from the original ) . Good choices would be cream cheese , ricotta , quark , tvorog or mascarpone .
A few things can cause tomato sauces to become bitter : Overcooked spices . Both basil and oregano can become bitter with long simmers . Add them near the end of the process . Under-ripe tomatos . Store bought tomatoes are often picked green and ripened in the store . These tomatoes make less sweet sauces ( which may be contributing ) . Cooking in an aluminium pan . Aluminium reacts with the acid in the tomatoes and adds an off-putting flavour . Seeds/skin in the sauce . Both seeds and skins can be bitter . You can improve a bitter sauce by adding a small amount of baking soda ( or salt ) , and something sweet ( but not too much ) .
There are essentially two methods to get what you want , and you can use them separately or together : Saturated Fat Butter and other saturated fats ( i.e. bacon fat or even chicken fat ) will do wonders to " bind " sauces to chicken . Among other reasons , it 's partly because saturated fat is solid at room temperature and still fairly viscous at moderately higher temperatures . In fact , traditional " wing sauce " is invariably some combination of hot sauce and butter . The butter helps cut the spiciness and also helps keep the sauce attached to the meat . Dry Heat I use this technique for ribs far more often than chicken , but the idea here is to make the sauce into a glaze by reducing it . Set your oven to broil and apply a thin coat of sauce to the meat ; make sure you cover it completely but do n't glob it on . Now put the meat on a rack beneath the broiler and wait until you see the sauce starting to bubble ( should be no more than 1-2 minutes if you 've applied enough sauce and your oven is hot enough ) . Then take it out of the oven . Repeat several times until you 've got a thick , sticky coat of sauce ( usually around 5 times for me ) . Note that if the sauce is very thick ( i.e. a store-bought BBQ sauce ) then you 'll actually want to water it down a bit first . For chicken I honestly prefer to just throw in some butter , but you can use either technique as long as the meat is n't too lean .
Sofrito can be thought of as similar to a mirepoix : a base mixture ( sort of a sauce , but not exactly ) that you use to then cook other things . It has some spice , some acid , but overall it 's something to be added onto , not something to be eaten by itself , just like you would n't eat a dice of carrots , celery , parseley , and onions by themselves either . Salsa , on the other hand , is a finishing sauce in most cases . It 's often chunkier ( Sofrito is not a liquid , but it 's a smooth texture ) , and should have more pow to it - it 's something that is complete by itself ( to be eaten with chips for example ) or is a finishing note on a taco or similar food which perhaps has several bland ingredients combined with one other powerful flavor . Salsa would be inappropriate in dishes where it might compete with the major flavor of that dish , while sofrito would not . That said , it 's possible a less strongly flavored salsa could be substituted for sofrito , if it 's what you have available . Really depends on the dish , though . If I were making a paella for example I probably would n't want to do that unless it was something that I 'd be happy to add the salsa to afterwards . But enchiladas work pretty well with salsas in my experience ( and often recipes just call for salsa instead of starting with a sofrito - > enchilada sauce ) .
Residual starches swell up and get sticky in hot water . This does n't happen with cold water -- In the time it takes to wash a pot .
First of all , people indeed often add some seasoning in the beginning , but are usually careful with the amount , especially with salt . Flavor-wise , you could add it at the end , after the reduction and be fine . However , salt can also affect the process of cooking . For instance , it can draw moisture out of some vegetables when frying them first , meaning that they will be cooked a bit faster . That is why some salt can be added at the beginning . At the end , after the reduction , you should taste and add some more seasoning , if needed .
You can rescue it by starting the process again , with an egg yolk in a bowl over a bain-marie which you whisk until it starts to thicken a little . then incorporate a little warm melted butter into the egg yolk . Once this is incorporated you can slowly start to add the split hollandaise and this should then incorporate into the new base , unsplit . There is a video <URL>
You could try using arrowroot . This is a widely available alternative to cornstarch - it is used in cookery because it does n't turn liquids cloudy like cornstarch does . In your case , it might work better as it also has a more neutral flavour . Substitute 2 tbsps of arrowroot for 1 tbsp cornstarch , and make a slurry with cool water as you would cornstarch . One issue is that overheating can break down the arrowroot , preventing it from thickening , so you are probably better off adding it to the tea after removing it from the heat .
If the problem you 're having is that it is too watery ( I assume that 's what you mean by " too thin " ) , there might be two causes : The recipe you linked to calls for a sizable amount of stock/broth , relative to the wine . It might be assuming that you have something closer to homemade stock , which has a high concentration of gelatin , as opposed to store-brought " broth " , which is more like meat-flavoured juice . You might not have reduced it enough . A " thin layer " could mean anything , but it 's not thickness you 're concerned about , it 's viscosity . When the sauce has been reduced enough , it should have the consistency of ... sauce . As in thick , sticky , and slow-moving . If it still looks and pours like water , it 's not reduced enough . On the subject of taste , there 's also the question of which wine you use . The wine sauce is going to taste like the wine ( stronger , actually ) , which is one of the reasons why chefs will tell you not to cook with any wine that you would n't drink . It 's pretty easy to make a reduction - just continue to let water boil off until it turns into the consistency you want . If you overdo it , you can always add a little extra wine to compensate . As noted in the comment clarification - if you 're simmering at a reasonable temperature , expect to wait at least an hour , and for no less than half the water to evaporate .
The simplest reason is texture . The point of cold soba noodles is to taste them at the ideal texture for soba . In a party situation , I 've served cold soba with pre-mixed sauce , and there 's a variant called wanko-soba in some parts of Japan ( particularly Iwate prefecture ) that is often served premixed in small bowls , but unfortunately , this results in the noodles softening fairly quickly . They 'll never be as good as they are when you dip a few strands at a time as you eat them . In fact , hot soba noodles deteriorate in texture as well , but this can be partially mitigated simply by slightly undercooking the noodles , since they will continue to cook in the broth . Since soba is generally a quick lunch in Japan , you 'll notice the quality decline in a hot noodle dish , but you 'll probably eat fast enough to avoid terribly soggy noodles ( unless you 're one of my toddlers , but even they can plow through a bowl of soba faster than they will almost any other food ) . Cold noodles will get soggier , but they will not " cook " , so undercooked noodles are n't practical in that case .
Peanut butter is just ground roasted peanuts essentially . The american style peanut butter tends to be sweetened , as well as having extra oil and salt . But they are only slight flavour/texture enhancers ( not that I think sugar enhances it , UK peanut butter is unsweetened usually ) . Satay sauces are essentially just peanut butter sauces , roast some peanuts , grind them , then add to some lightly fried shallots and garlic , with chilli , soy sauce , lemon juice , salt , sugar and if you want it authentic probably some nam pla ( fish sauce ) , or blachan ( shrimp paste ) , all of the above to taste . Thin with water and reduce to the consistency you desire .
... as long as it needs to , depending on a wide variety of factors . You can shape it for baking , put it in the fridge , let it rise , pull it out of the fridge and put it in the oven - no warming up time at all . If you are going to punch down/knead/form after it comes out of the fridge , you can do all that cold , and let it rise as long as it needs to before baking - which will depend on the dough and the room temperature . Or you can let the bulk dough warm a while .
If you let it sit in the sauce overnight then it 's no longer a sauce , it 's a marinade . That 's fine , but marinating is something you generally do with tough , cheap , and/or dry cuts of meat such as chicken breasts or top rounds ( beef ) . For a full chicken , especially the wings , drumsticks and thighs , a marinade is entirely unnecessary and in my humble opinion simply dilutes the deliciously moist interior and often makes the whole thing soggy and depressing . Generally the goal ( or at least my goal and that of the majority of restaurants I 've been to ) for chicken wings or even a traditional roasted whole chicken is a nice crispy , golden-brown , well-seasoned skin with juicy meat on the inside . You ca n't get that if you douse it in sauce before grilling it . The water in the sauce will inhibit the Maillard reaction that causes browning ( and crisping ) , and as Mike points out , the sauce may even burn . In fact , it almost certainly will burn ; most store-bought BBQ sauces only last a few minutes exposed to direct heat . With that in mind , the best time to sauce a grilled ( BBQ ) chicken is after it 's cooked , or more precisely , when it 's nearly cooked . Go ahead and season it liberally and coat it in butter or oil beforehand , but wait until it is no more than a few minutes away from being done before you sauce it . You 're not trying to cook the sauce , and it takes no more than a few minutes to get the sauce to bind to the skin - i.e. a few coats with 30-60 seconds each to reduce and form a sort of glaze . This is true for almost any meat and any cooking method as long as you 're not marinating - BBQ chicken , fried or convection-baked wings , smoked or oven-braised ribs - you almost always want to sauce it right at the end . If your technique and ingredients are good then the meat , not the sauce , should be your main attraction .
It 's a simple matter of viscosity , when eggs are cold the white is less runny . When eggs are warm the white is much more runny . As for whether it is easier to separate eggs when cold or warm it depends on your method . If you use the shells to separate the white , by cracking them in half and then transferring the yolk back and forth between the halves , then I 'd say cold is a bit better because once the white starts to drip out it tends to go as a whole . With warm eggs more white will stay in the shell with the yolk . However , if you use your hands to separate the eggs , by letting the white drip between your fingers ( or using an egg separator which does the same thing ) , warm eggs work much better because the runniness allows them to flow easier . This method works fine for cold eggs too , but warm is faster . Of the two methods I prefer using my hands rather than the shell for a few reasons : Less broken yolks : It 's easier to break a yolk when using shells It 's faster : especially if your eggs are room temperature you can separate eggs twice as fast this way You can whip the whites right away : Most of the time the reason you are separating the egg whites is to whip them into peaks , and warm whites whip better than cold whites . If your eggs are warm already then you can whip them right away , if they are cold you have to wait for them to warm up A handy trick if you are separating a lot of eggs is to separate each white into a separate bowl , then putting the white into a larger bowl with the rest of them . This is so if you get a bad egg , or a yolk breaks into the white you can discard the egg and keep the rest of them .
As they cool , many proteins go from long , flexible and un-entangled to short , rigid , and entangled . For all of those , the basic thickening is due to protein structure . The proteins in question are puddings - albumin ( egg ) ( Note : egg is complicated , and can be made to entangle at many temperatures , e.g. souffles , meringues ) white sauces , gravy - gluten ( flour ) jello - gelatin ( from a variety of sources , could be either animal or vegetable ) Similar protein processes also explain the various cooking levels of meat ( rare , medium rare , medium , etc. ) , and the various ways of cooking eggs .
Fats adhere to broad or flat areas nicely ( fettucini , linguine ) and press the creamier sauces against more tongue surface to enhance/emphasize their smoothness Pooling sauces needs nested , medium pasta ( round or flat ) that help to punctuate the sharper and more diverse flavors of a smooth , acidic by alternating between pasta and sauce Angel hair and other fine pasta do well with a chunky sauce as it is effective with pick up but does n't obstruct the sauce 's texture once you get it in your mouth My basis for this is ( 1 ) ease and volume of transport , plate to mouth of sauce ; as well as ( 2 ) how the pasta interacts with the sauce to create mouth feel and churn of sauce against tongue . As for gnocchi and other variously shaped pasta ; if it has a cavity , it should have fats , if it has a textured surface acidic sauces will cling nicely . Obviously , I would shy away from pretending any of these were definitive answers , they are reasoned and seasoned , based on sauce/pasta dynamics and experience preparing them . This book has a listing of <URL> . This book , upon which Geometry was based , also has a <URL> . I do n't seem to be able to find any good , objective maxims for when to use what ; but , considering the variety of pastas and the prolific diversity of sauces ( i.e. a different ragu for every house ) , it seems only appropriate that every person should have an opinion on why a particular sauce works with a particular pasta .
The person who wrote <URL> , agrees with you on the 80-100 ° part . However , in his salmon recipe , he advices to smoke below 85 ° . So my guess is that it depends on the food you 're smoking .
It depends on the preparation . I have the Creative Whip which comes with a little recipe book and not all of the recipes demand that you chill after charging . For example the " instant chocolate mousse " is really instant . The only liquid ingredient is the cream itself which is already chilled , and the gas expansion inside the canister chills it even further , so it 's ready right away . On the other hand , if you 're making something with gelatin , carrageenan , or any other gelling agent which needs to set , then you 'll obviously need to fill the canister while it 's still a liquid ( otherwise it 's going to be rather hard to whip , not to mention hard to get into the canister itself ! ) and then chill to set it . Basically it 's simply a question of how cold your liquid is before it goes into the canister vs. how cold you want it to be when you serve it . If you can chill it to the correct temperature beforehand , and that wo n't prevent you from whipping it ( as it would with an actual gel ) , then by all means chill first . In the specific case when you 're using creams and/or cheeses to make a mousse or espuma , you almost never need to chill it in the whipper itself - although it wo n't hurt either . By the way , if you 're making a gel or anything else that needs to set , it 's best to chill it gradually in an ice water bath and shake it frequently as it chills , in order to keep the gas dispersed . If you just charge it and stick it in the fridge , you may find it very hard to dispense afterward .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
Thickening with starch or flour instead of roux can be quite acceptable if some other rich flavors are added . Here is where the calories can be traded in : Good low-fat broth for part of the liquid . celery root or coriander root are particularly good ing . for veggie broth Puree , in small amounts add body and flavor . soft cooked onion is particularly silky and surprisingly mild Flavorsome oils , few drops instead of copious butter . Macadamia punches above its weight . Sesame toasted ( tiny amount ) or if feeling adventurous , pricklyash from Asian market . lower-fat ' milks ' can add luscious body instead of cream or 3 % dairy milk . Unsweetened Almond or coconut does n't overwhelm most sauces .
end question
start question
How to get those professional looking peaks on top of tiramisu ?
You probably wont be able to get that exact result with a pastry bag because the almost perfect square grid they are divided into . I still think a pastry bag will be your best bet . I am not sure were you got that picture but my guess is that the tiramisu was machine made and the marks and peaks are from the tooling that was made for the machine to deliver the mascarpone topping . I would try a good sized round tip on a pastry bag and make my dot and slowly raise up and cut it off by stopping the pressure on the bag and pulling straight up . It has worked for me in the past . My background is not in pastry though so you may also just go to a local bakery or wedding cake designer and ask how they would do it . They will probably tell you .
You can use Crisco All-Vegetable Shortening : its is on PETA 's ( People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ) shopping list of baking goods , but can work just as well for frying as lard .
Baking soda seems to work well for me , but the best thing is to get rid of old food that is causing the smell , and seal strong-smelling foods in airtight containers .
You can not make good hummus from canned chickpeas , you should make it from fresh dried beans The beans need plenty of soaking and rinsing When cooking , add one tsp of baking soda per cup of beans . Baking soda chemically softens the bean proteins . Never add salt or other flavourings during the bean cooking stage Traditional hummus is somewhat coarse , but very soft ( due to baking soda ) . It is made with a minimal amount of olive oil , but drizzled with olive oil and a sprinkle of cooked , and still warm chick peas when served Restaurant hummus is often just over processed junk made in a factory with a commercial grinder ( like a peanut butter grinder ) Also , see <URL> if your chickpeas never go soft
It makes no difference whether you use sheet or powdered . Just make sure to use the right amount . It should be given on the package , like " this sachet is enough for 500 ml liquid " . You can try to use less than indicated for a softer texture , but if you do n't use enough , it will stay liquid , so you may need to experiment until you get it right . You ca n't bake gelatin . It is a protein and denaturates at 50 ° C . The proper way is to bake your pie or fruit cake as always , and after it is ready , pour the gelatin containing liquid over the fruits and wait for it to congeal . ( I am assuming here that you just want a gelatin glaze over a complete pie . If you want a complete gelatinized filling , everything below applies . Bake a shell , put the fruit in it , then fill it with the liquid ) . The liquid itself can be pure water , or water syrup , or , if you used canned fruit , you can catch the liquid from the can and strain it . Then use it , pure or diluted with water . Sugar of food coloring do n't interfere with gelatin , use them as you see fit ( I think it 's popular to color the gelatin on strawberry cakes a light red ) . The mixing is very similar to panna cotta . First , bloom your gelatin by putting it into a cup with some water ( 1-2 tbsp ) and leaving it for awhile . It should soak up the water , use it while it still looks moist , before the granules stick to each other . It usually takes around 5 minutes . Meanwhile , warm your liquid on a very low setting . It is best to use a thermometer . Dump the gelatine into the liquid while still on the heat . Stir until dissolved completely , never let it get too warm . When dissolved , remove from the heat and pour immediately . There are n't many things which interfere with gelatin , but some fruits ( or the enzymes in them ) do . These tend to be tropical fruits with at least moderate acidity , like papaya , mango , kiwi and pineapple . If you pour gelatine on them when they are raw , it will have trouble setting . Cooking them should help , but I do n't know how long or what temperature . If they are canned , it should be OK . Bananas are not a problem , even when raw . And because you said you want to make it " professional " : If you are talking about a thin glaze , gelatin is not your only choice . You can use starch as a thickener , many professional bakeries do so . It eliminates the possibility of getting the right texture of the glaze ( which will be rubbery with too much gelatine and half liquid if you do n't use enough ) , and maybe you 'll feel more comfortable with it .
In the world of high-end chocolate , Valrhona is n't even the most expensive - in fact , it 's practically entry level . Amedei Signature retails at a whopping $ 40/lb in " bulk " ( 1 kg ) quantities . I do n't think I 've ever seen Valhrona in bulk quantities and/or at a significantly discounted price . On the other hand , there are similar-quality brands that are way more affordably-priced . On <URL> you can buy 22 lbs of Callebaut callets for just over $ 6 per pound . Or you can get one of Felchlin 's Grand Cru chocolates for about $ 10 per pound . You can even buy Guittard there for what appears to be $ 6.60 / lb . But you 'll notice that they even though they also carry Valrhona , they do n't have it in bulk . I also see <URL> selling the Guittard wafers for , apparently , $ 3.10 / lb if you buy the 25 lb bag . <URL> sells the Felchlin Maracaibo chocolate ( not Grand Cru ) for a measly $ 7.80 / lb . They 've got a variety of other well-known brands as well , although their selection is limited , they do n't have a lot of the crazy high-end stuff . Chocovic chocolate also sells at around the $ 10 range at most stores . If you can find it , they distribute 10 kg and 25 kg bags ( that 's 22 lbs and 55 lbs ) . I 'm not sure where , but if you go to their official site they explicitly mention that they make that size . You should consider that the exorbitant prices may not be a result of where you 're buying from , but of what you 're buying . Valrhona is just expensive . You may say that is because it 's better than all the others , and you may be right ( although some would disagree - it 's more than a little subjective ) - but that is the price you pay for " premium " products . They can get away with charging $ 13 - $ 15/lb , so they do . Do yourself a favour - try some of the lesser-known brands . A lot of them really do make fantastic chocolate , they 're just not as famous as Valrhona .
I 'd stew the raspberries down with a little water ( and sugar if the raspberries are n't sweet ) until they 're very soft , then pass the whole thing through a sieve to remove the seeds . You can then either store the result in the fridge , or pour it into an ice cube tray for easy portioning and a nice cold smoothie .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
I have worked in two professsional kitchens . The main kitchen itself ( all the work tables , stoves , floors , refrigerator fronts and so on ) is cleaned after each service , and very thoroughly each night with hot soapy water and sometime sterilizing solution . The insides of refrigerators and other storage areas do n't need to be cleaned that often because everything in them is in sealed containers . They should normally be emptied and wiped out at least once a week , and of course immediately if there is any kind of spill .
The key is to have the finest possible salt . One way to do this is to take any salt you like , and grind it fine in a mortar and pestle . This just takes a few seconds , and then you can customize to a particular sea salt you enjoy and avoid the need to buy a special popcorn salt . A rotating action in the mortar and pestle ( as opposed to pounding ) is most efficient for grinding salt .
No , you ca n't . You should always assume glass is not safe to use on the stovetop . Essentially none of it is , and while there are a very few exceptions , they 'll say so explicitly . ( For example <URL> says stovetop-safe in the description . ) That bowl is nothing special , definitely not stovetop-safe - it 'd shatter under the thermal stress . If you look carefully on the packaging , you might even find a warning that 's not for use on the stovetop .
The best way that I have found to cook okra , and prevent it from being slimy is to avoid cooking it with moisture . If you dredge it in seasoned cornmeal , then pan fry it , you get none of the slime that is common to okra . I have n't done any tests to verify if a quick fry would then prevent it from developing slime if you then add liquid , however . If you 're trying to add the okra to a soup or a sauce , you might still need to spend some time cooking it to break down the slime .
Dry herbs are slower to release their flavors than fresh herbs ; they will need extra cooking time to impart their full flavors , so add them to the dish sooner . Since they are less delicate and need the moisture , you may also want to add them along with a liquid , to help extract out the flavors . Crushing the larger-leaf herbs up a bit may also help . Use less dried herb than you would with fresh , because they are more concentrated . Although these will help , the sad truth is that even the best-dried herbs will not have the subtle flavors of fresher ones . Edit : One other technique you might use ( if there 's minimal cooking of other ingredients ) is to soak them in oil for a long time to extract flavors . I would suggest an overnight soak in olive oil . You can get more flavor out if you heat the olive oil before letting it sit to soak ; something like 50C/125F is a reasonable temperature to dissolve more flavor compounds , without damaging the more delicate ones .
As you mentioned it is all about how the crystals form . Some of the factors off the top of my head : How saturated is the solution - The more sugar packed into the syrup the more easily it will crystallize . How quickly it cools - The slower the bigger the crystals Interference - Do you have a starch or other sugar molecules gumming up the works ? Obviously you already knew this from your question . Not using other sugars will help . You might also try adding more sugar to the recipe at the beginning to fully saturate your solution . The fact that you add sugar at the end and it still dissolves in makes me think your solution could take a bit more . Letting the solution cool slowly with your seed sugar at the end should help . You would think it would be easier to get it wrong . Perhaps you simply have too much experience doing it right . Ask an amateur to try out your recipe and see if they fail properly .
I agree with @jwenting , 5-7 minutes in boiling water is the way to go . Remember to always put the eggs in cold water , if you put them in hot water you risk cracking the shell , especially if eggs are cold . Also , to avoid premature cracking of the shell , that may leave some egg white leaking out , add a spoon of vinegar ( should work with lemon juice too ) to the water .
There is no substitute for salt . Sorry . It has effects on the tastebuds and the body that can not be replicated . However ! They can be approached to a degree that most people will find interchangeable . Acids can mimic the flavour-enhancing qualities of salt in a big way . The more acid you have in a dish , the less salt you will need . Beware of going too far , of course , as too much acid is just unpleasant and will need salt to counterbalance . Heat -- as in capsaicin , chili peppers -- can produce much the same effect . Echoing papin 's information above ; NA and K ( sodium and potassium ) exist in balance in the body . Too far in one direction and you have a heart attack ( too much K ) , too much in the other and ( if memory serves ; I could be wrong ) you essentially drown ( or is it edema ? I ca n't remember ) . If avoiding sodium is related to a health concern , please speak to your primary healthcare provider before adjusting your diet in this way .
The resource we generally use here on Seasoned Advice is <URL> . Feel free to edit this answer to include other resources .
I strongly advise against doing it . I tried stovetop seasoning at home and got terrible results . A stove gives you hot spots - on gas , this will be the ring where the flame touches the metal . The temperature of the metal in this hot spot is way too high , and the oil burns instead of polymerizing . You get some oil-charcoal in this place , which does n't have non-stick properties , and flakes off after a few uses . Outside of the hot spots , the temperature is not high enough . The oil does n't polymerize thoroughly , and forms a sticky paste instead of a smooth one . Your food will stick to these parts of the pan even worse than to the charcoaled parts . Conclusion : use an oven . If your oven is too small for a pan ( I only have a toaster oven , 30x30 cm , and my pan + handle is way too long even for the diagonal ) , leave the door cracked and seal the crack with alu foil . This is not very energy efficient , but you only do it once per pan . It worked for me , and I got a real , non-stick seasoning after multiple failures on stovetop .
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
In addition to throwing things away as needed and using the pheromone traps , cleaning the pantry thoroughly once a week with hot water and a disinfectant ( both shelves and outside of containers ) helps . They do n't like bay leaves . Try scattering a couple of bay leaves on each shelf , closest to the ' high-risk ' items like flour , rice and oats . Good luck - they 're a real nuisance !
end question
start question
Is it possible to make french fries out of potatoes and tomatoes ?
After cooking 90 % of the way , pat fries dry on paper towels and lightly brush with a mix of ingredients -- tomato paste , honey , vinegar , garlic/onion powder , and salt . Finish in the oven on very high heat ( 450-500 ) until the outsides begin to brown . If you can only use tomatoes and not paste , reduce the above ingredients in a saucepan , substituting fresh tomatoes for tomato paste . Reduce to about 1/3 volume , so that it 's closer to a sauce/glaze , and use that as a coating instead .
The potato is probably not as important as the method . Simply frying them will not get you the fry you want . Basically you boil them , then double fry them . Here are the steps for <URL> : Ingredients 2 pounds russet potatoes ( about 4 large ) , peeled and cut into 1/4-inch by 1/4-inch fries ( keep potatoes stored in a bowl of water ) 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar Kosher salt 2 quarts peanut oil Procedure Place potatoes and vinegar in saucepan and add 2 quarts of water and 2 tablespoons of salt . Bring to a boil over high heat . Boil for 10 minutes . Potatoes should be fully tender , but not falling apart . Drain and spread on paper towel-lined rimmed baking sheet . Allow to dry for five minutes . Meanwhile , heat oil in 5-quart Dutch oven or large wok over high heat to 400 ° F. Add 1/3 of fries to oil ( oil temperature should drop to around 360 ° F ) . Cook for 50 seconds , agitating occasionally with wire mesh spider , then remove to second paper-towel lined rimmed baking sheet . Repeat with remaining potatoes ( working in two more batches ) , allowing oil to return to 400 ° F after each addition . Allow potatoes to cool to room temperature , about 30 minutes . Continue with step 3 , or for best results , freeze potatoes at least over night , or up to 2 months . Return oil to 400 ° F over high heat . Fry half of potatoes until crisp and light golden brown , about 3 1/2 minutes , adjusting heat to maintain at around 360 ° F. Drain in a bowl lined with paper towels and season immediately with kosher salt . Cooked fries can be kept hot and crisp on a wire rack set on a sheet tray in a 200 ° F oven while second batch is cooked . Serve immediately . Worth reading is also <URL> .
Evidently , there are some recipes for frozen confections based on oat milk . For example , <URL> provides " 5 vegan ice creams " , most of which are based on oat milk . They read more like sorbet recipes , due to the lack of fat in the mix . If you were to try to create your own oat milk based frozen dessert recipes , I would suggest modifying a base sorbet recipe , as they are not as dependent on fat as ice cream recipes . The additional starches in oat milk compared to water should add slightly more body and mouth feel , and make the product more opaque than a traditional sorbet . If you are not opposed to egg whites , you might also consider using sherbert recipes as your base . Note : the lactose in dairy products does not have a huge effect on the chemistry of ice cream ( it is a small part of the total sugar in the mix ) , although it could potentially help inhibit sugar crystal formation somewhat ( this is not usually an issue in frozen desserts ) . If you want to replace its effect , a small amount of honey , maple syrup , or even corn syrup would be very similar .
Fondant must be kneaded like dough , until it 's soft and smooth , before you roll it out . If you roll it out straight from the pack it will be too cold and stiff .
Vanilla sugar is incredibly easy to make . Store a whole vanilla bean in a jar of sugar , shaking it up every so often , until the sugar is vanilla flavored . That 's it . The time , I think , would depend on your bean and your taste .
Sure . <URL> , and I think there was an episode of Good Eats that described the process pretty well , too . I 'm not sure what you can get at the butcher in India , but you 'll want to find the belly of the pig . What you do is rub the meat with a cure , which is a mix of salt , sugar , seasoning , and " pink salt " ( a curing salt that is part regular salt and part sodium nitrite ) . Leave it in your fridge in a ziploc bag for a week or covered on a tray , flipping it over daily so that it cures evenly , then rinse it off . At that point you can roast it in a low oven , smoke it , or hang it to dry .
I believe ( although I am not sure ) that the majority of the stringiness of mashed sweet potatoes comes from the fibrous parts of the potato that are near the skin . If when you remove the skin , you remove a bit of the flesh as well , it should solve your problem .
Thierry , Stainless steel French presses work fine . In fact , you can construct a French press out of any chemically inert material : stainless steel , class , ceramic , high-temperature plastic , enameled copper , even marble , and it will make perfectly good coffee . I myself have a collection of porcelain and stoneware presses . What material you choose is really a matter of aesthetics and how you use the press . All of that being said , my experience is that high-quality glass carafes do not break regularly unless you drop them ( which is , admittedly , an issue ) . I 'm wondering if you bought a cheaper carafe with inferior glass , like one from Ikea . I have a Bodum which is at least 8 years old . Also , for brand name presses , you can usually buy replacement carafes , since breakage ( due to dropping ) is a frequent issue . Sometimes the replacements cost as much as a whole new press , but you should at least check it out .
From my answer on another question ( that justkt linked in the comments ) : <URL> Arborio rice , the classic choice for risotto , contains roughly 19 to 21 percent amylose . However , that is not the only difference . The desirable " bite " in risotto is due to a defect in Arborio rice called chalk . During maturation , the starch structures at the grain 's core deform , making for a firm , toothy center when cooked . Sorry , but for the best risotto , you really need an appropriate rice .
You are n't going to be able to get a sourdough starter from flour to ready-to-bake in 24 hours . You could easily make a poolish or pâte fermentée in that time , and get some of the flavor . You might also be able to use some yogurt whey or another source of lactic acid to get some of the sour flavor . Unfortunately , a sour starter is something that you kind of need to keep going and have on hand .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
I have all three kinds in my freezer at this moment . Although all of mine are raw , if you usually use toasted nuts , you can toast them first , then freeze . Saves a step later when cooking .
Allergic reaction to shellfish is typically caused by the protein <URL> . Since it is present in basically all of the muscle tissue of shellfish , extraction is not possible outside of a chemistry lab . Said lab extraction would destroy the food and likely render it inedible . Update Just found this <URL> which indicates that <URL> and <URL> ( SCP ) are also responsible for some allergic reactions .
Alton Brown <URL> using a piece of string to scrape the bone clean . First he cuts and trims the bulk of the meat down to where he wants it . Then , he uses a string tied to a garage door handle ( very cheap at any hardware store ) . Loop it around the bone a couple of times and pull , and it cleans it right up .
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
There are a few questions on this site about French fries , I 'd suggest you take a look . But I think the best answer is : baked sticks of potato do not French fries make . French fries are deep fried . You can never get the same results in air , although air fryers do come close . A normal oven bakes , not fries . Here are some sites that experiment with fries and crispiness <URL> <URL> .
It depends on what you mean by " yam " . Once upon a time , in the deep south of the US , there was a tuber known as the <URL> , and it was good . And then one particular grower decided to sell theirs under the trade name " yam " to get better marketing recognition . This lead to some folks in the US calling sweet potatoes by the name yam , especially in the context of candied yams ( a sweet casserole of spiced sweet potato ) . So if the word " yam " is being used to mean a variety of sweet potato , then they are culinary identical . Sweet potatoes of all variety are , well , potato sized ( or a bit bigger than the average potato ) , and their color can range from whitish through yellow , orangish or reddish . Most grocery store varieties are fairly orange in color . True <URL> originate from Africa , and are far more starchy and fibrous than sweet potatoes , no matter what they are called , and are used in entirely different ways . They can be very large , football to basketball sized or larger . There are also a tremendous variety of true yams .
I am afraid that it is quite hard to prepare it yourself . And you do n't start from phylo dough . Kataifi is not shredded , it is spun . You need a hot metal wheel for that . It is made from a batter which is thrown on the wheel , and because the wheel is spun , it bakes on the wheel in threads . You need not only the instruments ( this wheel ) , but also quite a bit of experience to throw it in even threads . Kataifi makers are a popular attraction on middle-eastern markets . If you ca n't visit one , you have to visit an ethnic grocery store to buy the prepared kataifi noodles .
Chicken is difficult to get right in a smoker . Cooking at really low temperatures can result in a rubbery skin . Chicken is one meat where I 've never seen the need to go low/slow . Brine the bird if you 're worried about drying it out or if you want to get some extra flavor into the meat , but it 's not necessary . In any event , make sure you get the skin dry before cooking . Overnight in the fridge should do the trick . I like to rub the skin with vegetable oil and BBQ rub ( or sometimes just salt &amp; pepper ) and cook it at around 300-350f on the smoker . Not only does it cook faster , it also does n't take on an overwhelming amount of smoke .
There are a couple tricks I 've learned from Cook 's Illustrated about making oven fries : Soak your cut potatoes in warm water to rinse off excess surface starch . Drain them and dry them very well ( I use a salad spinner and paper towels ) . Use a heavy duty sheet pan on the bottom rack of a hot oven to focus the heat on crisping the bottoms of the potatoes . Oil your sheet pan well , and sprinkle salt on it . This will act kind of like ball bearings under the potatoes to prevent them from sticking too hard . For the first 5-10 minutes , tightly wrap the sheet pan ( with the potatoes ) with aluminum foil . This will essentially steam the potatoes and help get a really nice creamy interior . After that , remove the foil and flip the potatoes halfway through . Make sure you use a thin metal spatula when you flip them . These techniques work well for potatoes in general , and really do turn out some fantastic spuds .
end question
start question
Broiler Drawer vs Oven Broiler ?
I can not speak to price ; I have n't comparison-shopped with this feature in mind . However , I have used various home gas ranges with either type of broiler . I 'll go ahead and sum it up : tl ; dr : I greatly prefer an in-oven broiler . Here 's why . First , positioning . Broiler drawers are typically located at the very bottom of the range , underneath the actual oven . This means that in order to place food in or take it out , you 've got to bend all the way down to the floor . I hope the ergonomic challenge here is obvious , but I have safety concerns as well . If you have never tried to cook 10 pounds of flank steak in a broiler drawer , then learn from my experience : it 's less than optimal . You will wind up bent over at the waist when pulling your finished steaks , end up tilting your pan and spilling meat juice on the way to the top of the range , and just barely manage to kick the drawer closed before your dog licks the exposed cooking tray . An in-oven broiler presents no additional challenges than you 'd have with regular oven use . Second : flexibility . Broiler drawers often seem to come equipped with an awkwardly-sized pan that 's smaller than the oven itself . Sometimes this has brackets or rails to hold it in place in the center of the drawer . This is a stupid design that 's difficult to clean , sometimes even difficult to remove , and limits your cooking space . The pan also rarely has any ability to move up or down , limiting your vertical space too . With an in-oven broiler , you can adjust the existing racks to get thick items underneath , and control how close your food gets to the heat source ( and therefore how quickly it browns ) . I frequently kick on the broiler at the end of cooking with things like au gratin potatoes , to get a nice brown crust on top at the very end . I could n't fit the pan I use into a broiler drawer , but with the in-oven version I do n't even have to open the door . An in-oven broiler will also accommodate any size pan that will fit in your oven . Remember those flank steaks ? Regarding design , most gas ranges that I 've seen with an in-oven broiler have two separate burners , a main version at the bottom that provides indirect heat to the oven box , and the broiler running along the top with a sort of heat shield to reflect its energy down into the oven . Drawers often seem designed to take advantage of only a single burner at the bottom of the oven , which provides both indirect heat to the oven box and direct heat to the drawer . This is mostly my assumption ; I 'm not an engineer . This design could make drawers marginally cheaper ( again , I have n't checked ) but I think the advantages outweigh any price premium for the extra burner . I 'll be so bold as to say that you will be very pleased with the difference if all you 've ever used is a drawer .
The oven in a standard 20 " kitchen stove will accommodate a bird even as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) . The very detailed chart <URL> , the pertinent details of which are replicated in the chart below , establish the standard dimensions of such an oven as 18 X 16 X 14.5 inches ( 46 x 41 x 37 cm ) . In their downloadable Thanksgiving pdf , for a turkey as large as 20 lbs ( 9 kg ) Williams-Sonoma <URL> a 16 X 13 X 3 inch ( 40 x 33 x 7.5 cm ) roasting pan . A pan of this sort is available with a rack which rises just above the bottom of the pan , as <URL> and pictured below . This kind of pan keeps height requirements down to roughly the height of the bird plus 3 " ( 7.5 cm ) above the bird , plus the standard 2.5 " ( 6.5 cm ) below the bottom rack . With 14.5 " ( 37 cm ) worth of oven height to work with and about a half inch space between the bird and the pan , that still leaves room for a bird 8 " ( 20 cm ) tall . ( We wo n't expect the bird to be half as tall as the pan is long . ) Meanwhile , an 18 " ( 46 cm ) oven depth accommodates a 16 " ( 41 cm ) long pan , and a 16 " ( 41 cm ) oven width a 13 " ( 33 cm ) pan width . Also , as seen <URL> and below , the pan 's handles fold down . Now , none of this is to say that there 's anything the slightest bit convenient about roasting so large a bird in so small a space . But it can be done . It should just be done with every whit of safety in mind .
Quite often that look can be from having the temp too high on the oven . A convection oven should always be at least 25 ( and some people will say up to 50 ) degrees cooler than a ' normal ' oven . If you have n't tried it yet , knock down the temp of the oven . We used to call this ' lava tops ' , because basically the outside is baking and setting quickly , and then the insides pop out of the gelatinous surface , and they go in a funny direction ( often the way the fan blows ) . I 'm not saying that is the problem for sure , but if it were me , it would be the first thing I tried to eradicate the problem .
I like to use the 15 % rule . To convert a recipe from convection to conventional : Multiply the cook time by 1.15 . Multiply the heat by 1.15 For example , your recipe would become : " Each loaf should bake at ( 300 * 1.15 = 345 ) degrees Fahrenheit in convection/steam oven for approximately ( 40 * 1.15 = 46 ) minutes or until the loaf reaches 155 degrees internal temperature . " You can convert back by multiplying by .85 .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
Kosher salt is the same thing ( though I 'm pretty sure it 's not iodized ) , but the crystals are less dense and larger . There 's more air in each piece , and they do n't pack together as tightly . That means you have to put a larger volume of kosher to get the same amount of actual sodium chloride ( salt ) . Think of it as the difference between ice cubes ( regular salt ) and snow ( kosher ) . Both are water , but ice cubes are way denser than a scoop of snow . When melting it , you 'll need more volume of snow to come out to the same amount of water as you 'd get from a few ice cubes . So no , it 's not worse for you .
When you do n't preheat , you cook your food at a lower temperature as your oven heats up for the first 5-15 minutes , depending on the target temperature and your oven 's strength . For forgiving foods , like a casserole , this may not affect you much - you 'll just have to bake longer than the recipe says to . As long as you 're careful , you 'll be fine . But if you 're baking something that should be baked for a short time at a relatively high temperature , your results are going to be very different . For example , take traditional Southern biscuits : they 're baked very hot for less than ten minutes . This cooks them all the way through , and browns the top and bottom . If your oven starts out cold , they 're going to be done in the middle before they 're brown ! Beyond under-browning , you 'll also run into problems like lack of rising in steam-leavened foods . Pastries , in particular , could probably be disastrous .
Yes , there is no real difference . Be aware that if you one from the hardware store , it should be one where the flame does not fluctuate when you tilt the torch . This usually happens with the very cheap ones . This becomes a big problem when you try to uniformly brown something . Aside from that and maybe " esthetically " I see no reason not to use one from the hardware store .
What are the primary causes of this ? The steam and other hot gasses that were puffing the cookies up either escapes or condenses . Without heat to create more steam , the cookies deflate . You get exactly the same effect with bread , quiches , and other baked goods . You can hear bread start to make a crackling sound almost as soon as it comes out of the oven , and the sound continues for some minutes until the bread has cooled a bit . Quiches are always quite puffy looking when they 're in the oven , but they start to shrink a bit as they cool . If you want your cookies to shrink less , you might try cooking them at a slightly higher temperature , or cooking them a bit longer , or perhaps not chilling them so much prior to baking . Bumping up the amount of egg white in the cookie may help , too . The idea is to get the structure of the cookie to set a bit more by the time you remove the cookies from the oven . That will , of course , cause the cookies to be less chewy and more crunchy .
You 've answered your own question , it 's size and shape . You could buy a roast and slice it into chops and you 'd get the same thing as if the butcher does it . That 's if they are both pork sirloin , sometimes there can be confusion between sirloin and tenderloin , which are not the same thing .
I can not speak to price ; I have n't comparison-shopped with this feature in mind . However , I have used various home gas ranges with either type of broiler . I 'll go ahead and sum it up : tl ; dr : I greatly prefer an in-oven broiler . Here 's why . First , positioning . Broiler drawers are typically located at the very bottom of the range , underneath the actual oven . This means that in order to place food in or take it out , you 've got to bend all the way down to the floor . I hope the ergonomic challenge here is obvious , but I have safety concerns as well . If you have never tried to cook 10 pounds of flank steak in a broiler drawer , then learn from my experience : it 's less than optimal . You will wind up bent over at the waist when pulling your finished steaks , end up tilting your pan and spilling meat juice on the way to the top of the range , and just barely manage to kick the drawer closed before your dog licks the exposed cooking tray . An in-oven broiler presents no additional challenges than you 'd have with regular oven use . Second : flexibility . Broiler drawers often seem to come equipped with an awkwardly-sized pan that 's smaller than the oven itself . Sometimes this has brackets or rails to hold it in place in the center of the drawer . This is a stupid design that 's difficult to clean , sometimes even difficult to remove , and limits your cooking space . The pan also rarely has any ability to move up or down , limiting your vertical space too . With an in-oven broiler , you can adjust the existing racks to get thick items underneath , and control how close your food gets to the heat source ( and therefore how quickly it browns ) . I frequently kick on the broiler at the end of cooking with things like au gratin potatoes , to get a nice brown crust on top at the very end . I could n't fit the pan I use into a broiler drawer , but with the in-oven version I do n't even have to open the door . An in-oven broiler will also accommodate any size pan that will fit in your oven . Remember those flank steaks ? Regarding design , most gas ranges that I 've seen with an in-oven broiler have two separate burners , a main version at the bottom that provides indirect heat to the oven box , and the broiler running along the top with a sort of heat shield to reflect its energy down into the oven . Drawers often seem designed to take advantage of only a single burner at the bottom of the oven , which provides both indirect heat to the oven box and direct heat to the drawer . This is mostly my assumption ; I 'm not an engineer . This design could make drawers marginally cheaper ( again , I have n't checked ) but I think the advantages outweigh any price premium for the extra burner . I 'll be so bold as to say that you will be very pleased with the difference if all you 've ever used is a drawer .
Sandwich or quick bread has different heat requirements than artisan breads . Artisan breads require a blast of high heat and humidity right from the beginning . They are usually baked on flat , preheated stones that store a lot of heat . With breads baked in loaf pans the bread is proofed in the pan which is obviously not preheated . The goal is not a blast of high heat but generally even heating . Stoneware and cast iron will hold a lot of heat but that is n't very useful for this type of bread . The big difference that a stoneware loaf pan will make is in the bread 's crust . Unglazed stoneware will let some moisture escape during baking . Stoneware loaf pans are often used for dishes other than bread such as meatloaf where the even heating and heat retention when serving is valuable . Bread baked in stoneware will be crustier in the area covered by the pan than bread baked in metal . This is a more compelling advantage with quickbreads . In my opinion sandwich bread does n't need to be crusty . Metal bread pans are cheaper , lighter , and less fragile . They wo n't even out any heat gradients in a sloppy oven . If you know your oven is unreliable consider getting a thermal mass ( such as a pizza stone ) to even out the temperature . I have n't used a cast iron loaf pan but my first inclination would be to use it for southern-style cornbread . This type of cornbread is normally cooked in a cast iron skillet . The pan would be preheated with hot fat and the cornbread batter would be poured in . The stored heat in the pan would fry the bread before it rose and set . I do n't know why a cast iron pan would be used for normal bread .
With chicken and turkey , the most important " trick " to cooking it is to make sure the dark meat gets done before the white meat dries out , and to make sure the skin crisps up somewhat . Duck is all dark meat , and has a thick layer of fat that must be rendered out . There is not a lot of danger in drying out the breast meat like with a chicken . Like Martha said , it 's best to make a few shallow cuts in the skin over the breast ( do n't go all the way through to the meat ) to help the fat render out . A simple ( western ) roasted bird would be cooked at 350 & deg ; F for about 1 hour 45 min , with the oven turned up to 500 & deg ; F for another 15 minutes to crisp up the skin . There is a LOT of fat rendered out , so it 's best to roast in a sturdy roasting pan , on a rack ( so it does n't sit in the fat ) , and drain the fat about an hour into cooking ( save the fat , though ; it 's delicious ) . Personally , I think duck is easier to cook , but it 's definitely different from roasting a chicken .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
I would recommend a combination toaster and convection oven . While I have a regular oven in my small apartment , I rarely use it in favor of saving energy ( and money on my energy bill ) by using the toaster/convection oven . I have purchased toaster oven sized muffin tins ( just a 6 muffin tin ) and a toaster oven sized roasting rack that fits two sizes of meat . My oven came with a roasting pan . The convection features have done wonderful things for my pies . You can get them big enough to make pizza in . As long as you are n't cooking for a crowd , it will work wonders . Things I 've successfully baked in there include : Muffins Cake ( did have to do it one cake at a time for a layer cake ) Pie ( the convection feature is perfect for pie ! ) Bread Cupcakes Pitas Steak ( well , it was a broiled steak recipe - the best I can do without a grill ) Chicken breasts I had a friend who rented a place that has a convection cooking setting on the microwave . We successfully used it to make muffins once , but I have n't tried it further .
It 's just how long you dry them . Thin apple slices work best for crunchy chips and then just dry them till they 're crunchy - sometimes as much as 18-20 hours . Soft , chewy dehydrated apples just go for a shorter time .
Some pans have ' oven safe ' labels on the bottom . That may help . If not : DuPont studies show that at 446 ° F Teflon starts offgassing toxic gasses ( Multiple sources ) . Generally , I would n't put my non-stick pans in : use stainless .
You could do it as others have mentioned on the lowest setting , You want a temp around 150 degrees F ( 65 degrees C ) . When you do this prepare for drippings . Cut the meat about 50 to 75 % thicker than you want the finished product . To thin will turn it into paper . We soak our meat in a soya sause , sugar , garlic &amp; pepper brine . To add different flavor we will add a hot sauce and honey to make a sweet/hot flavor . Let the meat sit over night in the brine at the least . Stir it a few times to make sure it soaks evenly . you should use a metal screen to put the jerky on , it does n't work well to lay it in a pan . it will just cook in the juices if you do . spray no stick on the screen it helps . Good luck .
Even given a standardized recipe and method , cooking times are always only a guideline . Quality recipes always give you a test for knowing when the product is done . The reason for this is that there are many uncontrolled ( at least from the recipe author 's point of view ) such as , in the case of ribs : Exact dimensions of the ribs Natural variation in the composition of the ribs Starting temperature Variation in your particular oven That said , the variable most controlling over the time it takes to cook ribs , given a standard recipe and method , is the thickness of the set of ribs . A longer strip of ribs ( btw , the full set of ribs on one side is called a slab of ribs -- country ribs are not normally sold this way ) does n't make much difference , as the heat will penetrate through the thinnest dimension . Ribs are a complex food to cook as they benefit from low-and-slow cooking methods , which allow the touch connective tissue of the ribs ( collagen ) to slowly convert to unctuous gelatin . This conversion is temperature dependent , taking many , many many hours at around 140 F , but happening in an hour or two at 180 F. Note also that <URL> are a different cut than <URL> ( the baby variety come from a younger , smaller animal ) . Country style ribs are cut with a lot of meat on the bone . In practical recipes , the amount of time this takes will depend on the exact cooking method such as braising , roasting , or barbequing . Recipe request themselves are off-topic here at Seasoned Advise , but you can find many recipes easily by googling " <URL> " . Indivdual recipes will give you a guideline for a basic cooking time related to the method used in that recipe , and a test or condition for knowing when they are done . For example , this recipe for <URL> s from the Food Network suggests an estimated cooking time of 1 1/2 hour braising , and tells you that they are done when when the meat is tender ( which you would test by poking with a fork , or just trying some ) . An alternate method , as suggested in <URL> from Cooks.com is to roast the ribs in the oven . They use three-stage method where the ribs are covered in foil in the middle stage , but the total cooking time is about 3 1/4 hours . They carefully describe how you know when the ribs are done : " the meat should just about fall off the bone . " . Note : I have n't tried these particular recipes ; they only serve as examples . The bottom line is , ribs are generally done when they are quite tender , which you can easily tell by poking them with a fork or trying them . How long this takes will depend on what method you used , the size of your ribs , and a myriad other factors , but will be on the order usually of 2-3 hours .
No recipe alteration needed . Fried meatballs will develop more of a crust , and thus more flavour through the Maillard reaction . In any case , unless you 're making tiny meatballs ( or finishing their cooking in a sauce of some sort ) , they 're going to need to be finished via baking anyway . I would only do the baking method if I had to make an enormous quantity at once . For home cooking I always fry then bake .
end question
start question
Why do " saute pans " have straight sides ?
North American cookware companies seem to use the terms " saute " and " sauteuse " interchangeably , but technically , the saute pan is the straight-sided one , and the sauteuse or " fry pan " is the slope-sided one . In French cooking equipment terms , the straight-sided one is called a " sautoir " , and the sauteuse has higher sides and while angled out , they are not curved . The curved , shorter sided one is called a poele ( and probably what most North Americans would identify as a " frying pan " ) . So the issue is really that there are a lot of different names floating around for just 3 types of pans . When you saute , you want to maximize cooking surface area , so that things do n't steam . Sloped sides will reduce the cooking surface , so that 's why a saute pan will have straight sides . Regarding the lid , it would be used in the case that you want to cover the pan after a sear , to braise or steam . It also makes your pan more versatile . Regardless of the etymology of " saute " , according to La Cuisine de Reference , the definition of saute is to cook quickly in a small amount of oil , and any of the aforementioned pans can be used for this cooking technique . " Sauter - Cuire rapidement des petites pièces de viande , de poisson ou de légumes dans un sautoir , une sauteuse ou une poêle , avec un peu de matière grasse . "
Very , very few pizzas are made with butter . There is no way to make a universal statement , but butter is a rare . Olive oil would be more likely . Many pizza doughs are fat-free , including the traditional pizza di napoli ; New York style generally contains olive oil . It is rare for any traditional toppings to contain butter . Some individual cooks might saute vegetables in butter , but even then , olive oil more common . As for particular restaurant chains , you would need to check their nutrition information sites . Note : as Derobert points out , some deep dish Chicago style pizzas may contain butter in the crust .
This scum is made from proteins . Meat contains muscle fibers ( the proteins actin and myosin ) as well as some loose proteins swimming in the fluids within the meat ( the cell plasma ) . When you cook meat , the protein-rich fluids are expelled ( that 's why overcooking makes meat dry ) . Under hot temperature , the proteins in the fluid coagulate , making it firm . It is especially noticeable in your burger , because there is more liquid flowing out quickly from your cut-up meat , but it also happens with whole pieces of meat , albeit more slowly . It is also very noticeable when cooking stock , because the stock is cooked for a long time and the liquid has time to come out from the meat . The coagulated liquid can form a single piece ( as it does with steak on a slightly oiled pan ) , but when it flows into water or oil , it mixes with it without dissolving , creating small loose particles . They float to the top , creating the frothy scum you describe . The process is perfectly natural , you 're not doing anything wrong . You can in fact eat the scum without any ill effects , but the taste is n't that great . So it is better to fish it out from the oil ( or water when making stock ) . In dry cooking ( aforementioned steak ) it is exactly this stuff ( after getting nicely browned on the hot pan ) which makes gravy taste so well , together with the dripped fat .
I often use this technique at home to cook proteins . It shortens cooking time by using steam as a heat transfer medium to cook the top of the item at the same time as the bottom . You can also use this method on frittatas , dumplings , etc. . You can also use flavored liquids to impart flavor as well . I particularly like hard cider with chicken and pork .
Not a great idea . The oven cooks from the outside in , so by the time your chicken is done on the outside , it 'll still be uncooked on the inside . If you cook it longer so it cooks through , the outside will be as tough as shoe leather and the inside will be just lukewarm enough to encourage microorganisms ( that may have survived the freezer ) to fester , which could sicken you . Put it in the pan the night before , cover it ( or not , as Alton Brown sometimes suggests ) , and put the pan in the refrigerator . When you get home from work or whatever , preheat the oven to 450 F , season it , and bake until done . When is it done ? It 's done when : The chicken is done when an instant-read thermometer reads 165 degrees F when inserted into the thickest part of the thigh ( the legs of the chicken should wiggle easily from the sockets too . ) Remove the chicken to a platter and let stand for 10 minutes , so the juices settle back into the meat before carving . <URL> Note that some would say 165 F is over done , but safe is better than losing a kidney to E. coli or other nasty microbeasties .
Caffeine is water soluble , but it takes a bit of time to be absorbed by water . What determines the caffeine content of a coffee process is how much time it spends with/in water . For example , a bodum French press will pick up more caffeine from the coffee since the grounds stay soaked for a while . Drip coffee will have more than a single espresso ( common misconception is to think the opposite ) . It 's likely that the instant coffee process passes the water through the coffee under pressure and faster than drip . This will naturally prevent the caffeine to be absorbed in water as much . Besides using decaf roast , what you may wish to do is get an americano coffee made with one or two Ristretto shots of espresso . A Ristretto shot is usually pull away after 10 seconds . Take a look at this analysis from the <URL> for the actual Caffeine values .
It is not a good idea to combine ANY teflon pan with an automatic dishwasher , regardless of what the manufacturer says . But fortunately for you , I have handy the Cook 's Illustrated from October 2010 , which did a nonstick skillet ( aka frying pan aka saute pan ) review . According to them , even the best nonstick coatings wo n't survive more than a year or two of heavy use . This makes proper care all the more important . Brand also is n't a good indicator of coating quality , because many pan manufacturers buy coatings from the same suppliers . To quote the article : Most cookware manufacturers do n't make their own nonstick coating ; they buy it from suppliers offering a menu of options , from basic to premium , and spray it on their pans . It 's similar to painting a room ; the quality of nonstick coating is determined not only by what 's in it but also by how carefully it 's applied and cured , and how many coats the manufacturer decides to put on . They found the Tefal ( T-Fal in the States ) Professional Total Nonstick Fry Pan ( $ 35 ) had a nonstick coating that outperformed the other pans by a significant margin , probably due to its 5-layer nonstick coating ( most pans use 2-3 layers ) . The only fly in the ointment was its handle , which had rivets that loosened after abuse . But , for $ 35 that is n't bad , doubly because it outperformed the $ 150 + All-Clad nonstick pans they used normally . If you 're looking for something cheaper than that , I 'd suggest you look at construction and not brand . Pick a heavy pan ( for its size ) , with either solid , thick-gauge aluminum OR a multi-ply construction . This combination ensures the pan will heat evenly and rapidly ( crucial for eggs ) , and is resistant to warping ( important if you use an electric range ) . If you 're cooking eggs , avoid hard-anodized aluminum interiors , as they do n't help prevent adhesion of eggs , and just cost more . The nonstick layer should look thick and smooth , not slightly textured . My most-used frying pan ( the default egg pan ) is a small T-Fal that cost all of $ 7 . The important thing is that it has the right construction and I treat it correctly ; I 'm careful not to scratch the surface with utensils , I never use a scouring pad on it , and it ca n't go near the dishwasher . This makes more of a difference than picking a fancy brand .
The big thing that you you are going to see cooking in regular pans vs. non-stick is the addition of pan sauces to your table . It is almost impossible to get a pan sauce out of the non-sticks because they prevent the formation of fond in the pan . As for stick in a regular pan , it is not much of a concern for most items , but there are a few things that non-stick are invaluable for so I generally keep a cheap non-stick around for those . ( Talking cepes and eggs , mostly ) The biggest trick with regular pans is learning to stop messing with your food while it cooks . You want to let it form that crust which as a by-product will help prevent sticking . Also , you will find that you start at a higher tempature when cooking with regular pans .
Non-stick pans have a coating on top of metal , this metal could be aluminum , stainless steel , copper , or any other metal or alloy . The coating does n't make a whole lot of difference to the heat distribution , that is the property of the metal underneath it . Heat distribution does n't change the end quality of your food , it determines how quickly heat spreads through the metal of the pan . What determines the quality of your end result is your technique in using the combined properties of your heat source and your equipment to cook food well . You can make great food with the most basic of equipment if you know how . The type of range you have should have a big influence on your pan choice . I cook on gas which produces a nice , steady heat which I can control very finely , I prefer using a set of inexpensive non-stick aluminum pans as they are light and heat up quickly . I can keep the pan at a steady heat by adjusting the flow of gas . If I ( god forbid ) had an electric stove I would opt for stainless steel or cast-iron instead because these materials even out the fluctuations in heat from the on-again-off-again nature of electric heating elements .
Yes , the freshness is the factor . In the US eggs are sold in three grades : AA , A , and B ( rare ) . The grading is based primarily on age . AA are the freshest , and B the oldest . Here is a diagram depicting the internals of an egg : The characteristics of the freshest eggs are : A large thick albumen ( white ) A small thin albumen A sturdy thick chalaze A small air space A sturdy round yolk when lying flat As the egg ages the following things happen : Thick albumen breaks down , getting smaller Thin albumen gets larger Chalazae degrades getting thinner and weaker Air space increases Yolk membrane weakens , when cracked it lies flatter Embryo may become visible as a red speck As a result of the weakening membrane the yolk is indeed easier to break . Michael 's suggestion to use your fingers to separate the eggs is spot on . The edge of an egg shell is a little too risky for reliable separation of eggs .
True free range eggs are noticeably different in terms of yolk colour ( a much deeper yellow ) and taste . Free range chickens are allowed to supplement their diets with naturally found grubs , inscets etc. . You might find this of interest : <URL>
You could use oil , but I do n't think it 's worth it ; realize that you 're going to be using additional energy for obtaining , cleaning , and disposal of it . Regarding using a broth with a porous bag , well , that is n't sous vide . That 's more akin to a slow-cooker . The whole point of sous vide is the airtight barrier between food and heat . Update Oil does not have a higher thermal mass than water . Ammonia does , but I 'd suggest avoiding that . ;) Source : <URL>
Legend has it that the inventor of the ring shaped donut with a hole came up with the idea because he was dissatisfied with the raw centre of regular donuts . <URL> . Having done quite a few doughnut experiments recently , it 's true that having shapes where the distance from the centre to the surface is smaller increases your chances of properly cooked doughnuts . So toroids make sense , but then so would thin cylinders . You can however , fry up donuts will no hole , that are cooked all the way through . Look at Berliners or jam-filled doughnuts .
Those are called " Eyes " by cheese makers . The appear when bacteria convert lactic acid into propionic acid and carbon dioxide , or metabolise citrate . These bacteria occur in dairy products , though they can also be added to the curd to get the characteristic eyes . See for example <URL> on Wikipedia .
It 's not just American supermarkets that rarely carry mutton , this situation is similar across the Anglosphere , and I suspect most Western countries too ( or at least those without a strong mutton culture ) . The reason is largely economic . Mutton is expensive and not as tasty as lamb . First , the immediate reason is that nobody really eats mutton anymore . Yes , there are certain locales , cultures and movements still eating mutton or are trying to bring it back , but today , on aggregate , the demand for mutton is near zero . According to the <URL> : The U.S. market for lamb and mutton has weakened throughout the decades . Since the 1960s , per capita consumption has dropped from nearly 5 pounds to just about 1 pound . This drop is due in part to declining acceptance of lamb from a growing segment of the population , as well as competition from other meats , such as poultry , pork , and beef . Most meat is sold as lamb and comes from animals under 14 months old . Here 's a per-capita consumption graph : <URL> If nobody buys mutton , supermarkets do n't sell them . The supply chain for meats is pretty complex ; it 's not something that a store manager can just decide one day to order a batch and shelve to see if it sells . Meat needs to be slaughtered and deboned in an abattoir , butchered either in store butcheries or at centres ( unless you fancy buying an entire , 50kg cut ) , and displayed in refrigerated sections . If there 's enough local demand for mutton then maybe individual supermarkets can carry them , just as meats like rabbit , duck or kangaroo is sometimes sold at a few supermarkets . But why do n't people eat mutton ? People just do n't like it . It is an <URL> . Mutton comes from older animals and is often less expensive but less desirable to consumers . ( USDA ) . As can be seen , the average income elasticities across the studies are 0.77 for beef , 0.24 for lamb , -0.65 for mutton , 0.47 for chicken and 0.48 for pork . ( Negative income inelasticity = inferior good ) That is , as incomes grow , as they have over this timeframe , people want to buy less of it . Lamb is a superior substitute for mutton . Anecdotally , compared to lamb , mutton is gamier , tougher , and harder to cook . Economically , lamb and mutton have high cross-price elasticity - if one 's price grows , demand shifts to the other , indicating that they are substitutes . And the real killer is ... Mutton prices have grown faster than lamb . <URL> Mutton is still cheaper than lamb , but in relative terms it has become more economic to raise and sell lamb . There are multiple market forces at play : the cost of raising the sheep past lamb age , the efficiency of raising lambs ( i.e. increased lamb weight ) , the growth of dairy leading to higher beef supply , the relative decline in wool reducing mutton supply and so on . You 'll have to ask a farmer . <URL> Update : did n't notice that the graph was price indices and not actual prices
Unless you freeze them yourself and do n't wash them first , no , you should not need to wash commercially processed frozen vegetables . Part of the process for freezing includes cleaning/trimming preparing the vegetables . Washing is unnecessary . Info <URL> : The actual process of freezing a food item varies somewhat depending on what is to be frozen . Peas are the most common frozen vegetable , having virtually replaced fresh peas in the American supermarket . The pea process is typical for many vegetables . A typical process for a frozen entrée follows . Picking and washing 2 The peas may be picked by hand or automatically . Then , a machine called a viner removes them from their shells . If the processing plant is adjacent to the fields , the peas are carted there . If truck transport is necessary , they are cooled with ice water and then packed in ice for transport . At the plant , the peas are dumped into beds and sprayed with water to remove dust and dirt .
The eggs are for binding - they keep the filling together . They might also provide some substance/body to the filling . Not knowing what recipes you 're looking at , it 's hard to say for sure , but since you tagged this with " cheese " I 'm guessing that the fillings would start to melt and ooze out of the shells if you did n't use egg .
Not long at all . Usually 1 minute is enough . If it starts to turn brown , it 's been in there too long .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
The shells are not used in making peanut butter . You would need to shell these peanuts ( and remove the papery skins from the individual peanuts ) before grinding them to make the peanut butter . It does n't matter whether they are roasted in the shell or not -- what matters is that they are roasted , to give the deeper , richer flavor . I have to assume your peanut vendor did not mislead you , and therefore the peanuts you bought are already roasted . You would just shell them and grind them . Note : if they are roasted , they will be somewhat crunchy , with a toasty complex aroma , and light medium beige to brown color , whereas raw ( or " green " ) peanuts will be closer to very pale yellowish beige , like unfinished lumber . Due to the large number of peanuts that may be used in making a reasonable quality of peanut butter , and the inconvenience of shelling those peanuts , one might choose to purchase already shelled , roasted , preferably unsalted peanuts for the purpose . Edit : in response to the second question , I defer to the mighty <URL> whose recipe indicates to roast peanuts at 350 F for 30-35 minutes . Since he does n't give us a test or indicator to know when they are done , and a careful and meticulous recipe writer such as Brown would not omit this if one exists , I infer no good test for doneness of the in-shell peanuts exists . However , since the individual peanuts within the shells are very uniform in size , the time and temperature guideline is likely to be quite effective . You should almost certainly be smelling roasty peanut aromas as the peanuts close in to being done , but there is no way to describe that . Its like knowing when a cake is done by the aroma -- its certainly possible , but you have to have experience with the recipe to know .
end question
start question
Will hard boiled eggs absorb salt through the shell ?
Salt or acid is often added to the water when boiling eggs to denature egg whites faster should there be a crack and a leak . I have not read anything that experiments whether this is effective . It also sounds like " do n't wash mushrooms " or " pasta must be cooked in a ton of water " kind of old wives tales .
Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container ( such as tupperware , rubbermaid , etc. ) is the best method . Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container . After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel . This is due to the hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere ) of brown sugar . You 'll see " brown sugar keepers " in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks . The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar . Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up . You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit . This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture ( due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food ) .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
The salt adds flavor , but it also helps reduce the gelation of the starch in the pasta . The starch in food is the form of microscopic grains . When these grains come into contact with water , they will trap some of it ( think cornstarch in cold water ) , but when the water is hot they swell up like balloons and merge with each other , and you have starch gelation . Another thing you may want to add to the pasta water is some acid ( lemon or cream of tartar ) . Tap water in most cities is made alkaline , which increases the starch loss from the pasta to the water , making the pasta stickier .
Soften . Other things that typically are added with salt will tend to toughen the beans , but it is n't the fault of the salt . For decades , chefs have circulated the oral tradition that adding salt hardens beans , but it 's a myth . Several scientific studies verify that adding salt to the soaking water for dried beans will reduce the cooking times . The first and most cited article , originally published in 1977 , can be found <URL> . As mentioned in the first answer you cited , the fine folks at Cooks Illustrated found in 2008 that 3 TBSP per gallon of water produces soft skins while not over-salting the interior of the beans . Since you ca n't see the full article , here is the science according to CI : " Why does soaking dried beans in salted water make them cook up with softer skins ? It has to do with how the sodium ions in salt interact with the cells of the bean skins . As the beans soak , the sodium ions replace some of the calcium and magnesium ions in the skins . Because sodium ions are weaker than mineral ions , they allow more water to penetrate into the skins , leading to a softer texture . During soaking , the sodium ions will only filter partway into the beans , so their greatest effect is on the cells in the outermost part of the beans . " Harold McGee 's NY Times blog ( August 9 , 2008 ) also notes that adding salt early enough will allow complete penetration of the bean , which improves flavor . On the other hand , things typically added with salt -- particularly sugar and calcium-rich products -- tend to toughen beans ( and the salt gets the blame ) . This toughening effect is most notable in baked-bean recipes using things like ketchup , molasses , and BBQ sauce . You can bake these beans for days , yet the beans will stay whole and firm . The actual mechanism for this effect is not clear ; one hypothesis currently circulating seems to be that these products stabilize the cell-cell " glue " ( e.g. , Shirley Corriher says so on Good Eats " Pantry Raid III - Cool Beans " , transcript online <URL> ) , but I could not find any peer-reviewed study specifically verifying that hypothesis .
It means to combine the things listed up to and including the cloves , as in " combine ingredients 4 through 11 " . In that recipe it 's just a helpful hint to tell you where the dry ingredients stop . The recipe is already calling for ground cloves - it mixes them into dry ingredients as-is . When using whole cloves , if you do n't immediately just grind them , you generally cook them in something liquid then strain them out later . ( Similar to cinnamon sticks or whole allspice . ) The cinnamon and nutmeg in the recipe are also ground , not whole . If a recipe wants whole cloves , it will explicitly say , and often count them : 10 [ whole ] cloves .
Buy almost-late eggs . The worst-case scenario of egg-shelling is a farm-fresh egg . That annoying film that sticks to both the shell and to the egg will detach , the older the egg gets . The bubble at the fat end , too , will get bigger as the egg ages , which also makes the bottom cap pop off more easily . Obviously , we do n't want rotten eggs . We want the almost expired but not expired ones . Roll the egg against the countertop , cracking it along the " equator " . This will give you lots of starting points , and it will weaken the shell in enough directions that the rest of the peeling becomes easier . Usually , the top and bottom caps come off in large and clean pieces , so do n't bother cracking that part unless it sticks . Start from the fat end of the egg . After much experimenting , I 've determined that starting from the bottom of the egg ( the fat end ) is the best way to do it . Give the egg one good whack on the countertop , and the bottom caves in quite easily . This gives you a really nice starting point . Now peel out from there in a spiraling pattern down the rest of the egg . The top cap still comes off quite easily in one big chunk , if the egg is old enough .
In my experience , the most likely impact of a gentle boil vs. a furious rolling boil is going to be on texture of starchy foods , such as potatoes or other root vegetables , rather than flavor . I 've found that a gentle simmer of potatoes will result in a mostly intact shape and consistent texture , whereas an aggressive boil without perfect timing can result in the outer layers of the potato breaking apart , sometimes before the center has time to cook fully . I 've seen similar issues with stuffed parcels of pasta like ravioli or boiled won tons . I 've also found that open pot egg poached eggs have much nicer results with a gentle simmer than an aggressive boil , perhaps for related reasons . Since part of how we experience taste is texture , you could say that the " taste " is affected .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
Salt in high concentrations can kill yeast yes . So can sugar , though salt is so much better at it . You see both are hygroscopic , meaning that they suck water out of stuff . This induces osmotic stress to the yeast cells leading eventually to cell breakdown ( aka death ) . On lower concentrations salt will throttle the yeast fermentation producing a richer and more uniform crumb . Adding the salt early or later in the process will have a big effect on your dough , but that wo n't be because of the way it messes up with the yeast . Salt is supposed to coagulate gluten proteins , in a sense it " stiffens " the dough . On various situations this should happen late in the process ( e.g. see the " Delayed salt method " used for sourdoughs ) . For pizza dough I 'd add the salt early .
Salt itself does n't really have a perceptible odour . However , salt added to other ingredients will usually react with some of them , which will indeed cause a change in the dish 's overall smell . There are several different reactions involved : Salt will draw fluids from most fruit , vegetables and meats . The fluids have an odour that was previously trapped within the food 's structure and is now available to your nose . Salt makes a fluid more acidic , which causes all sorts of changes . For instance , the difference in smell ( and other properties ) between a fresh cucumber and a pickled cucumber is mostly due to the brine , which is water with a high salt content . Salt may facilitate other chemical reactions in the organic molecules of the dish . Obviously , different molecules have a different smell . Each of these reactions may occur separately or together , depending on the specific ingredients used and a host of other factors , of course , but salt can definitely cause a change in the smell of a dish .
If you boiled the eggs but left them in the pot of water , you may be in luck . The shell should keep the rotten egg safe from cracking and exposing the apartment to the truly rancid smell of spoilt eggs , assuming they have n't cracked during boiling . You will know a spoiled egg when you crack open the shell . Whether raw or cooked , a spoiled egg will have an unpleasant odor . No question about it : throw it out . - <URL> What you will probably find when you get home are unmolested eggs in a stagnant pot of water . Throw the eggs out if they have n't cracked . They WILL be spoilt . <URL> describes why . <URL> ( similar information can be found from other food agencies ) : Why do hard-cooked eggs spoil faster than fresh eggs ? When shell eggs are hard cooked , the protective coating is washed away , leaving bare the pores in the shell for bacteria to enter and contaminate it . Hard-cooked eggs should be refrigerated within 2 hours of cooking and used within a week . Simply put , you 're damaging the shell , and that expedites spoilage . If you 're unlucky and the eggs did crack ... well , the water might absorb some of the scent , but after four weeks , you 're still likely going to have some odor . Throw the eggs out , pour the water out , throughly clean the pot , and try to air your apartment out as best you can .
The function of the chord , that is attached to the yolk , is to hold the yolk into place . To have the most uniform baking possible , you remove the chord . However , I never do . I keep it in with the rest of the whites and I 've never had any problems with the finished products . So you can : toss it keep it with the yolk ( a little bit of whites with the yolk is not bad , the other way around is ) keep it with the whites since it does not contain fat , it will not stop the whites from being whipped It 's up to you .
A thermometer is the only way to be sure . For methods with a consistent level of heat ( stove , oven ) , you should able to learn the average cooking time , and outwards cues of color and texture that match the right internal temperature . Remember that these will vary with cooking method and temperature . Internally , the meat should look opaque and white . These are CUES of doneness , not guarantees . Use the thermometer . For methods with inconsistent levels of heat ( bbq , campfire ) , wait until it looks nearly done and then check with the thermometer . Err on the safe side . Prepared properly , chicken is a lot more forgiving of overcooking than steak .
Kosher salt is pure , like table salt , but without any iodine and ( usually ) without any anti-caking agents . Kosher salt crystals are also coarse , but flat , which makes them easy to dissolve or season/coat meat . Unprocessed sea salt is simply coarse ; the shape of the crystals ( whole or ground ) does not stick to meat particularly well and the impurities make it harder to dissolve properly in water . It does n't usually have minerals added ( unless it 's a really cheap kind possibly made from pre-iodized table salt ) , it just does n't have minerals removed like table salt . Kosher salt and sea salt are definitely not the same thing . Kosher salt can come from seawater , like sea salt , but the " kosher " part is all about the size and shape of the crystals , not their source . Sea salt is not a good idea for brining . It 's expensive and inefficient , and by the time the meat is cooked , any distinctness of flavour will have completely disappeared . Some of the minerals may even burn , depending on the cooking method . Instead , use kosher salt or table salt for brining and add sea salt as a seasoning afterward if you want . Using sea salt for cooking , brining , or other preparation is simply wasting it .
The USDA recommends storing hard boiled eggs , whether peeled or not , for 1 week . I personally have kept &amp; eaten them after 2-3 weeks . I have also cracked one open that was no longer edible &amp; believe me - You will know when that happens ! The egg will will smell rotten &amp; you will have no question as to whether or not to eat it ! Some additional Info on storing eggs : Eggs should be stored in a refrigerator at about 40 degrees F , mainly to reduce the chances that any bacteria on the shell will multiply and cause a risk of illness . Buy refrigerated eggs and store them in the refrigerator as soon as your get home . However , even under refrigeration , eggs slowly lose carbon dioxide , which enlarges the size of the air cell and causes the yolk to flatten and the white to spread . Fresh Egg - Refrigerated raw shell eggs will keep without significant quality loss for about 4 - 5 weeks beyond the " sell by " date or about 3 weeks after you bring them home . Fresh egg whites - 2 to 4 days Fresh egg yolks ( unbroken and covered with water ) - 2 to 4 days Deviled eggs - 2 to 3 days Leftover egg dishes - 3 to 4 days
The short answer is 1-2 years for traditional pickles , assuming a good recipe with adequate salt content and fermentation time ( traditionally anywhere from a month to a few months ) . For modern quick fermented homemade recipes , where the pickles are fermented in a week or so instead of months , I 'd recommend using them up within a month or two . Some representative sources ( note the bolded bits about fermentation time ) : " Fermented or processed pickles also have a very long shelf-life , about two years . " ( <URL> ) " FERMENTED PICKLES : The oldest method of pickling , when a naturally occurring bacteria transforms the sugars present in the ingredient into an acid , preserving the food . These are called ' processed ' pickles , and though they take as many as five weeks to cure , they last up to 2 years . " ( <URL> ) " The product is completely fermented in 3-6 weeks ... In contrast to salt stock brining procedures [ i.e. , pickles removed from their liquid after fermentation and stored in a very heavily salted tank for future processing ] , genuine dill pickles do not require desalting and are often sold with the filtered fermentation liquor that is produced during the process . The product must be consumed within 12 months . " ( <URL> ) While these are common estimates , many books on the subject wo n't even give such shelf-life estimates ( e.g. , Sandor Katz 's The Art of Fermentation ) , because there is so much variability depending on recipe and storage conditions during and after fermentation . The other issue is that fermented brined pickles are " alive " in the sense that they continue to have microbial activity even after refrigerated . Unless you " process " the pickles after fermentation by heating to a high temperature and canning , you should expect that pickles will change their taste and texture continuously . You might like pickles that are " just finished , " but dislike their flavor or texture after a month or two in the fridge ( or the reverse ) . Traditional pickle-makers often take advantage of these changes , for example by selling " half sours " which taste like something between a fresh cucumber and a pickle and have only been partially fermented . " Half sours " and other pickles that have not completed fermentation before refrigeration have a much shorter shelf-life ( usually a few weeks ) , because the lack of full acidity in the liquid and remaining sugars and other nutrients in the cucumbers may still allow other things to grow and for spoilage to occur . Even after a longer fermentation , expect pickles to gradually get more sour and to soften in texture as the months go by . However , with adequate salt content and full fermentation , and as long as you are not contaminating the storage container , there 's no reason to expect they will actually " go bad " at refrigerator temperatures for at least a few months and potentially much longer . Traditionally , long-storage pickled cucumbers were fermented in ( and subsequently stored in ) a cool place , like a root cellar or other underground compartment , which probably stayed around 50-55 degrees Fahrenheit most of the year . At these cooler temperatures , pickles usually needed to ferment for at least a month and sometimes a few months before achieving full flavor . Since the root cellar temperatures were often above refrigerator temperatures , they would then continue to get even more sour and gradually begin to break down as the months went by . However , the purpose of storage was to have cucumbers available throughout the year , so last year 's batch would be used up and then be replaced by the new harvest . Today , most people tend to ferment homemade pickles faster ( often at room temperature ) and often with less salt than the season-long ferments of the past would use . This produces pickles more quickly , sometimes in as little as a week or so , with pickles that are not as extreme in their sourness and saltiness as the long-storage pickling of the past . The flavor profile can also be somewhat different , due to greater activity of some microorganisms at room temperature . Depending on the recipe , they are often not as stable and should probably be consumed within a few weeks or months . ( For example , Alton Brown 's relatively fast pickle <URL> recommends storing the pickles no longer than two months in the refrigerator . )
As long as the eggs are n't expired you should be fine . I 've made creme brulee many times with both fresh eggs and not so fresh with similar results .
No . In most ( all ? ) places that sell chicken eggs in quantity , the eggs are not fertile . For that , there needs to be a rooster involved . The hen that laid your egg does n't hang out with roosters . Your best bet is to acquire a few fertilized eggs from a farmer who keeps chickens . You can also buy fertilized eggs online , just search for " fertilized chicken eggs for sale " .
Eggs will last two to four days in the refrigerator . Source : StillTasty ( <URL> &amp; <URL> )
end question
start question
Can I freeze beef stew ?
Yes , you can freeze stew . You may find that the vegetables are a bit softer or broken into smaller pieces after thawing . If you used a thickening agent ( flour , cornstarch ) , it may separate as it thaws in the refrigerator overnight . To remedy that , remove a bit of the liquid , simmer with a bit more thickener and whisk so that it stabilizes . Then , gently stir into the stew as you reheat it . And , you 're correct , ' do n't refreeze ' applies to the raw meat , not to when it has been cooked .
The idea is to brown the outside of the meat in order to develop the flavour via the <URL> . This flavour will add to the richness and meatiness of the stew as a whole . Go ahead and give it a good crust . Do n't overcrowd the pan or you will just end up steaming the meat in its own juices and it will never brown up : fry it in small batches instead . Two hours braising in the stewing liquid will easily be enough to cook one-inch cubes of beef all the way through and will easily see off most nasty stuff .
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
Do n't know what the flavor profile of the shredded beef , but a nice flavorful hummus ( Sabra is my favorite brand ) is one of my favorite alternates to mayonnaise in beef sandwiches . Sounds unusual , but it 's a great textural and flavor compliment .
Of course you can freeze meat . If it would be unsafe , your local supermarked would n't be allowed to sell it . What you have to keep in mind when freezing your own meat : Storage time is limited , for guidelines see <URL> or <URL> . Freezing does nor remove bacteria , mold and other " nasties " , but stops them from multiplying . Rule of thumb : What 's on the meat when it goes into the freezer comes out again . So follow the usual safety procedures for raw meat before and after freezing . ----- EDIT ------ As the subject of fat going rancid has come up several times in comments : That 's one of the reasons the recommended freezing time for bacon is 1-2 months only , for game meat up to 8-12 months . Rule of thumb : The fattier the shorter .
Put the meat in a sealed plastic bag , place in a bowl in the sink , fill with cold tapwater , then set the tap running in a thin stream with the water overflowing the sides of the bowl . The moving water will safely thaw the meat through convection . Make sure you get as much air out of the plastic bag as you can . You might need to put some weight on it in the bowl to keep it submerged in the water .
Red bell peppers freeze really well after being roasted . This is the method I would recommend for you . The problem with freezing first is that it can degrade the peppers ( breaks the firm cell walls ) and would likely make them more difficult to roast afterwards . If you roast them first , the cooking starts the cell collapse itself and the peppers do n't tend to degrade more afterwards , plus your peppers are already roasted , so you 've saved yourself that step in your pasta making process . The process is pretty simple ... roast as usual , parcel into recipe-sized portions in small zip top bags ( do n't forget to date the bags ) and freeze or roast , put on a cookie sheet ( if you have one that fits in the freezer ) , and freeze in a single layer . Once frozen , they can all go in one big bag and they should n't stick to each other too badly . <URL> that explains the process with some roasting tips . And another <URL> .
You will have the best results if you prep by cutting and blanching prior to freezing . This should ensure that moisture content in the veggies does less damage over time in the freezer and improve color duration . I find it helpful to freeze vegetables separately rather than as mixes as you can always grab from multiple bags , but you ca n't unmix mixed vegetables without more work . The majority of vegetables for stir-fry ( e.g. broccoli , peas , etc ) will freeze well enough , the ones in your freezer aisle obviously freeze a bit better than others . If a vegetable has a high water content ( i.e. lettuce , which I hope you are n't stir-frying with ) that is more integral to its structure than the cellulose it is likelier to burst cell walls in freezing ; these vegetables are better to avoid .
In today 's modern culture and cooking style , the difference is likely unobserved . I would consider a stew less constructed than a casserole , however . While the stew would start with generally uncooked ingredients ( perhaps except for browning the meat , and likely be mixed together while cooking to give a single-dish of meat , vegetables and sauce . A casserole might include some cooked ingredients , often be more properly layered and probably not mixed while cooking .
Once you 've got your wet ingredients in there the timer is running . The chemical rising action only lasts a little while , and you want as much of that as possible to happen while the muffins are in the oven . If you wait past that window your muffins are n't going to rise very well , if at all , and I think you 'd definitely run into that with freezing the mixture . Even if freezing the batter would stop the chemical reaction ( which I seriously doubt ) , you would n't be able to make use of that fact . Using a conventional freezer , the cooling process is going to be fairly gradual . Your batter is going to be at an active temperature for quite a while before eventually reaching the mythical non-reactive temperature -- far longer than the chemical rising action lasts . And then as you thaw the batter you have another lengthy period where your chemical clock is ticking , long before you can get it in the oven .
Worked fine for us ; we used to cottage with people who did n't want to shop very often , had lots of kids and a big freezer out back . We would buy lots of milk and freeze it just fine . Do let it defrost completely before trying to use it . We never noticed any separation , nor problems with expansion - do be aware of the container the milk is actually in , and if there is room in there for freezing to occur . FYI - this specific experience was in Canada , and milk up here comes in bags that we then place into a pitcher-like contraption to use . Your specific container may or may not have enough space .
I dont think that adding parnips to a beef stock would change the chemistry . I would give the beef stock a longer time to freeze as well as check the temperature in your freezer !
Generally speaking when speaking of " stew beef " , the meat will break down more the longer you cook it . I often make shredded beef for tacos out of that cut by simmmering it for a few hours or more . At 1 hour , I 'd say it was undercooked . For example : <URL> In there he recommends using stewing beef , browning it first and then " ... stew until the meat is tender and can be cut with a spoon . This will take at least an hour and a half . "
I did a little digging and ran into a <URL> on canning bacon . It is apparently possible , even easy . Basically , the process seems to be : lay bacon strips on paper , put another piece of paper over them . Roll this up ( and possibly fold it ) and put the roll in a mason jar . 90 minutes at 10psi ( I 'm quoting here , I 'm not a canner myself ) and voila , canned bacon . I found <URL> of a commercial canned bacon product . It was not flattering . Not even a little bit . I do n't know what that says about the possible taste of home canned bacon , if anything .
There are several options : wrap jerky in paper napkins/towels before putting in the baggie put jerky in a paper bag and then in a plastic one put some uncooked rice , as Optionparty has mentioned The method you choose also depends on how long it takes the mail to be delivered . Rice is the most long-lasting way , but it will also add the most weight to the package . Paper bags and towels are equally effective , but they wo n't do for longer than a few days . Whichever you do , make sure the baggie is well closed to prevent any moisture from outside getting in .
After a quick Google search , I found <URL> that deals with this exact matter . They 'll grate well and it 's handy when ( just semi-defrost them ) you need some grated zest as you can just pull out a bag from the freezer and sprinlkle them into your recipe . They 'll juice but you need to defrost them which I 'm told is best done by ' zapping ' them in the microwave for 30 seconds . Apparently you get more juice after they 've been frozen as it bursts the cell walls releasing more juice . Hope this helps !
Making a stew without browning is relatively safe since the prolonged cooking should kill off most pathogens . This is especially true if you are careful about your kitchen cleanliness and cut the meat down from a larger piece yourself instead of buying pre-cut " stew meat " or ground meat . Whole cuts of meat such as steaks or roasts usually only have E. coli on the surface , which makes the E. coli easier to kill by cooking . When the meat is ground or mechanically tenderized , E. coli on the surface can be transferred to the inside of the meat . This is why ground meat and mechanically tenderized meat are more likely to cause illness than whole cuts of meat . Like ground meats , prepackaged " stew meat " can contain tissues from multiple individual animals , thereby increasing the chance that there is E. coli present in the package . Each additional surface is another place for E. coli to grow while that package is sitting at the store or in your fridge . Browning , however contributes a significant amount of flavor to the stew , which will be lost . The good news is that you <URL> ... One alternative that I use is to buy the quantity of meat I plan to use as a whole roast ( instead of pre-cut " stew meat " ) then sear the entire roast before cutting it down to stew-size chunks . You get the flavor benefit of the Maillard browning with less time spent browning little pieces and less overcooked meat . If you use a lidless , oven braise technique , as suggested in Harold McGee 's On Food and Cooking , you will get further browning on any pieces that are n't totally submerged as well as flavor concentration from evaporation . Check out these previous posts on similar topics : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
You will get the roasty , caramelized flavors ; how much influence they will have on the overall flavor of your stew will depend on several factors including : How deeply you roast the them How much you add , proportionately , into the stew How strongly flavored the other items in the stew are Roasting the vegetables will also cook them , so you will want to add them to the stew much later , so they do n't overcook . If you google <URL> , you will find several recipes for inspiration . As to whether this is a superior , or heartier flavor , that would be a matter of opinion . You do n't mention roasting celery or onions ( partners with carrots in the classic mire poix ) , but these are also excellent candidates for roasting , as are all types of root vegetable .
Yes , you can freeze either the wrappers or the pre-made rolls and they will work fine . The wrappers I buy are typically frozen .
Given your lack of tools , we 're going to have to get <URL> on this roast . You 'll need some sort of flavorful liquid ( or a combination of them ) . Chicken stock or beef stock would work . I 'd normally also recommend using something acidic like red wine or tomatoes , however , using this method ( which is based on tinfoil ) , acids can react with the aluminum to produce off flavors . If you want to cook with wine or tomatoes , you can transfer the meat to your casserole after you brown it . ( More on this below . ) You 'll also need some type of mild tasting oil . Vegetable , corn , canola/rapeseed , peanut , light olive oil , will all work . Salt . That 's it in terms of software . Hardware : Paper towels . Tinfoil ( preferably the big , wide kind , and heavy duty ) . An oven . That 's it . Algorithm : This is basically the same technique that <URL> proposed , just using different tools . Adjust your oven 's rack to about 6 inches from the broiler . Turn on your oven 's broiler on its highest setting . Lay out two layers of tinfoil on your counter . Make sure the tinfoil is big enough such that if you were to place the roast in the middle of it there would be a border of tinfoil around the roast that is at least as wide as the roast itself . Optional : Put the tinfoil on a large sheetpan or cookie sheet . This will help you in transporting the device to/from the oven , and it will also ensure against spillage in your oven . If you do things right you wo n't have to wash the sheet . Pat the meat as dry as you can get it and put it in the center of the tinfoil . Pour a bit of oil on top of the roast and rub it all over . You only need enough to barely coat the entire roast . Generously salt both sides of the roast . I prefer using kosher salt , because it is less saline by volume , so you can more evenly distribute it without over-salting . You 'll probably use a good tablespoon or so . Put the roast under the broiler . Wait about 5 minutes , but that number is n't exact . Use your eyes . Just wait until it looks good and brown and crusty and delicious . Just do n't blacken the entire thing . When the top side is browned , flip it over to the other side . The best tool for the job here is a pair of tongs , but a fork will do . Brown the second side . Remove the roast ( which is hopefully on top of some type of pan for your convenience ) . Turn off your broiler and reset your oven to 275 degrees F. Fold up the sides of the tinfoil around the roast to make a sort of pan around it . Try to leave as little room around the roast as possible . Alternatively , if you want to use acidic ingredients , you can transfer the roast to the casserole at this point . The reason why you could n't use your casserole from scratch is that it is probably not broiler-safe . Pour in enough of the beef/chicken stock to just barely cover the roast . It should n't require very much liquid . Once the liquid is in , fold the tinfoil on itself to seal the top , such that you end up with a tinfoil package containing the browned meat and the stock . Try and make it airtight . Stick that in the 275 F oven . Just let it sit in there for ~ 3 hours . You do n't need to touch it . After ~ 3 hours , take it out . Hopefully the tinfoil did n't leak . If you did this correctly , all the cleanup you need to do is crumple up the foil and throw it out . You can also experiment with adding other vegetables ( e.g. , thinly sliced onions or whole garlic cloves ) . You can even add them from the very beginning . As I mentioned in a comment on <URL> answer , bottom round roasts have a lot of tough connective tissue which needs to be cooked low and slow ( < 300F ) in the oven in order to become soft and tender . However , if you were to cook the beef the entire way at that temperature the meat would end up being gray and tasteless . The reason is that the <URL> ( which are what turn the meat golden brown and make it taste more meaty and delicious ) do n't really occur below ~ 300F , which is the purpose of the initial sear .
end question
start question
How to store homemade granola ?
Although ours rarely lasts for more than a week , we typically just store it in an airtight container with the rest of the cereal . I would imagine the fat could eventually go rancid , so if you need to store it for weeks or months , either refrigeration or freezing should work . You 'll still want the airtight container , however , to prevent any fridge funk from tainting the taste .
You could put them in a pan of boiling water for 3 or 4 minutes ( not so to they 're cooked through ) before putting them in the oven . The potato on the outside of the wedges will soften and cook a little bit which will help the outsides crisp up a little . Make sure you allow them to drain completely before you put them in the oven .
How long this will last depends largely on the ratio of sugar to water in the final syrup . Sugar can inhibit the growth of microbes by reducing the <URL> of the solution , but this is dependent on the amount of sugar . According to a <URL> that I consider quite reliable on these matters , a syrup composed of equal parts sugar and water ( by mass , not volume ! ) will generally keep unspoiled for about 2 weeks . A syrup with 2 parts sugar to 1 part water will keep as long as 3 months . These both assume that you 're keeping the syrup refrigerated in an airtight container , which it sounds like you are . Unfortunately , unless you know the exact ratio , it 's tough to predict exactly how long this will last . Discard immediately if you notice any of the following : Any visible mold ( hopefully this one 's obvious ) A cloudier appearance ( harder to judge since you have some suspended particles ; you might try running it through a fine-mesh strainer ) Any gas bubbles or outgassing when you open the container ( this is a sign of <URL> ) You might also consider adding a small amount of alcohol . This provides another hurdle to microbial growth , and would extend your syrup 's shelf life to somewhere between 3-6 months . I generally add about 1/2 oz of 80-proof ( 40 % ABV ) vodka per 8 oz or so of syrup . Regarding a mason jar , the main advantage these have is that they wo n't trap flavors the way that plastic can when re-used . A strongly-flavored substance stored in plastic for a time can contribute some of its flavor to the next . Since you 're storing a strongly-flavored ginger syrup in a former soda water bottle ( which is nearly tasteless ) this probably is n't a concern , but if you used the bottle again whatever you put in it might come out tasting subtly of ginger . Glass does n't have this problem .
I happen to have watched a TV show the other day about this very problem and they suggested making a big batch of whatever filling or fillings you are thinking of using ( presently or in the future ) and go ahead and make them all up and freeze them ready to cook . They were making several kinds of ravioli that day . They made them all up and placed them on cookie sheets to freeze and then placed them in ZipLock bags and they had a nice supply to pull out of the freezer whenever they were ready to cook them . They did n't have a problem with brittle wontons once they were filled . They used beaten egg to seal the edges so the filling would n't ooze out . You can use this same method for any shape or filling ... does n't have to be ravioli , of course .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
There is no rule of thumb encompassing all salad dressings . One " rule of thumb " which sometimes gets used is to look at the shelf life of the most perishable component . Frequently it works ; sometimes , it is dangerously misleading . A mixture of the things you listed can have a longer or shorter shelf life of that of the most perishable component . An example of lengthened shelf life is mayo ; it stays good for longer time than a cracked fresh egg , because the yolk gets pasteurized and the pH is lower . But there can be examples of the other thing happening . The classic is the homemade garlic oil : you can keep pure garlic and pure oil for months in the pantry , but once you combine them , you get a botulism risk . I do n't usually keep salad dressings in the fridge , but if I did , I would look at why the most problematic component has the shelf life it has , and decide whether mixing it will change the condition . For example , if I had a mixture of oil , vinegar and pure emulsifier : Oil keeps for months because it has no carbs , so nothing for bacteria to eat . Vinegar can have a few carbs , but not a lot , and it also has a very low pH , so bacteria die in it . The combination still wo n't have enough carbs for bacteria , and will still have a low pH. So the mixture will keep for very long time , just like pure vinegar or oil . On the other hand , imagine mixing vinegar with honey and water . Honey does n't go bad by itself , because the carbs are too concentrated for bacteria . The vinegar and water will dilute them , so this mechanism of bacteria prevention vanishes . The pH of the mixture will probably rise a lot too , because the vinegar gets diluted , so no protection on that front either . Thus , this mixture is apt to go bad much earlier than pure vinegar or pure honey . This method requires that you make a new decision for each new dressing you make , and that you acquire enough knowledge to be able to make such decisions . If you feel this is too much effort or too risky , you can either start adding conservants to your homemade dressings , or just start preparing a fresh dressing for each batch of salad .
Short answer : storing food in an open can is normally safe for a short period , but inadvisable . Longer answer : There are three main issues with storing foods in an open can . They are metal oxidation , contamination , and funk . Oxidation . As commenters have observed , cans used to be made of tin , which is toxic . Modern cans are made from either steel or aluminum . If the contents of the can are acidic , cans are lined with a polymer ( plastic ) inner layer . If that layer is broken -- say , by a major dent in the can or by using a knife to scrape out contents -- then the acid can get to the metal and , over time , corrode it , and some of the now-oxidized metal will dissolve into the food . As far as we know , the oxidized metal is not toxic , but it tastes horrible . Contamination . Any open container of food can become contaminated when an airborne water droplet ( tiny -- microns wide ) containing a nasty microbe drips or settles into it . The major biological culprit here is Listeria , which can grow in any moist environment , including spaces refrigerated below 40F ( 5C ) . Also , if juices from your raw meat drips onto an upper shelf , which later gets wiped inadvertently into your container of ready-to-eat food , you are likely to get Salmonella or E coli . This risk can be mitigated if you keep your raw meats on the lowest shelf , but not eliminated . Also , it is worth noting that contamination through this pathway is a relatively rare event -- but even so , it is not worth the risk . Funk . Have you ever put an ice cube in your beverage and notice your beverage tastes strange ? The chemical compounds that give food their flavor tend to be volatile ( meaning they will readily leave the food into the surrounding air ) . Also , the mustiness of a refrigerator/freezer is due to volatile compounds produced by mold and mildew . Foods that are wet and/or fatty can be molecular velcro to these compounds .
The easiest solution is to use different cheeses . Most commercial pizzerias , like Domino 's or Pizza Hut do not use expensive cheeses like Parmesean or fresh mozzerella ... they use crappy cheese designed to be stretchy and to stay that way when warm instead of hot . In general , they use part-skim mozzarella , which is often sold pre-shredded and in hard blocks like you 'd find cheddars . This is addressed in another answer , <URL> . Hard cheeses like Parmesan are unlikely to melt at all and , when they do , they will firm up quickly as they lose heat . You should rarely expect a hard cheese to melt well . Most of them do n't . They also lose a lot of oils when they melt , causing unsightly separation . They 're great for a burst of salty cheese flavor but they wo n't behave like Domino 's cheese . This is why it 's common to top a completed pizza with shredded Parmesan but you would n't want to use it as your primary base cheese for the unbaked pizza . Fresh cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella have the opposite problem . Their high moisture content will often make pizza unappetizingly <URL> . In contrast , the part skim mozzarella used in pizzerias is specifically chosen because it has low water content . Check out the two questions linked here for a ton more info . You should consider doing some research into which <URL> as opposed that separate into an gross mess . Note , this list , like many others includes Asiago but it 's important to notice that the list refers specifically to fresh Asiago , not the Parmesan-like aged sibling .
To store fats , you should always use glass as plastics react to fats by absorbing some and perhaps discoloring or transferring flavors to your fat . Depending on use , I prefer to work with cold fat at the start as it has a much broader possible use and I do n't like to wait when I make biscuits , so I keep mine in the fridge . However , you gain very little extra life out of keeping it in the fridge and if you do n't keep it in a sealed container you run a very real risk of flavor transference there to . If you do n't make pastry dough or other such , your counter top is a perfectly acceptable place to store , as long as you use it up before it goes rancid . One thing to keep in mind is that fats can sometimes have very different shelf lives , so make sure you taste or smell before use , regardless of storage method .
All excellent information , but can I answer bluntly : none of them come even CLOSE to the real thing . Once you use fresh stock , you will never , ever go back . Really . Making stock is easy , cheap , and as said above , unattended time . Stock forms the base of the kitchen , once you have it , you will notice the taste of everything you make improve so much . Get some bones ( most butchers will give the away for free , just become friends ) cold water , bring to boil , throw away the dirty water , start again with fresh water . This saves you the trouble to skim the grey foam , which is the white blood cells and other bitter tasting substances . It is also much more effective as skimming . And it results in a clearer , better tasting stock . When you do it , you will see what I mean straight away . I even rinse the pan Add onions and celery , and basically all the cut-offs of all your vegetables . pepper corns , bay leaves , unpeeled garlic cloves , whatever you like . You dont need to peel the onion . The fuller the pan , the better the stock . On your storage problem : two solutions . Big restaurants do not store , they just have a big pan boiling night and day . Small scale : after a hours or a night of slow boiling or so , remove bones and veggies . Cool . When fat is solid , remove and use this for frying : fried taters , etc. . Now boil down the broth , really down to say 20 percent . You have a demi glace now . Put it in ice cube trays , and freeze . When frozen , remove , and put in bags . You have now concentrated fresh stock that takes up no space , and you can use in any quantity you require . Please try it . Again : NOTHING comes close to the real deal .
Cut it in half before peeling , so that only the end is exposed . Wrap the exposed end with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator . The skin may darken , but that is okay . You should get a day or two easily . Or put all the half bananas in the freezer , and when you have enough , make banana muffins .
Of course you can store them in the fridge . When things start to smell bad , you should toss it . From what I remember off hand , every pancake or cornbread batter recipe I 've read says about a week is safe .
The nori that you buy as sheets is usually a different species than that of the form prepared as aonori . The form that you buy in sheets is , additionally , typically roasted , which changes the flavor . Aonori is usually of the genus Monostroma or Enteromorpha . Toasted nori for sushi is usually of the genus Porphyra . Because of those two details , I do n't believe you can get the same results from grinding up nori . However , that 's not to say that it ca n't be done if the taste satisfies you . I sometimes grind nori furikake ( which contains small strips of nori ) not to simulate aonori , but just to get the nori and sesame to adhere to other ingredients ( like popcorn ) .
Tea needs to be kept away from heat , light , air , and moisture . The best way to store tea is at room temperature in an opaque , airtight container . Your container should not be plastic , because odors from previous uses ( even if its only been used solely for tea ) could contaminate your current tea . Do not store tea in the freezer or refrigerator . Opening and closing of the door causes rapid humidity changes that cause moisture to seep into the container and degrade the flavor of the tea . Some cheap tea containers can be found here : <URL> Personally , I would go for one with a twist or latching cover rather than a slip cover , just to ensure that it 's airtight . References <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
My whole wheat bread takes 4x to go off than my white bread . Even a mixture of 50 % whole wheat flour will make it last longer . But that will only help if the problem is the bread getting hard too soon . That can also be prevented by keeping it in a plastic bag . You 'll get the mold before the bread goes stale . If you 're keeping the bread in a plastic bag , try paper bags . To solve the mold problem , the traditional way is to add some acidity . For example , you can add a sourdough starter . If you do n't like the taste of sourdough , a poolish starter should also help . The bacteria it grows will prevent the mold growing . I know it 's not what you 're asking , but freezing will also help . When you bake more bread than you eat , freeze it wrapped in a plastic bag and thaw it overnight and you will get a good , fresh bread .
You should always try to first bring hot quinoa to room temperature and follow the rest which you already mentioned . That works great , else if you try to pack it when it like burning hot , then the steam kind of stays in the packed room which later creates moisture and later spoils the food even though you keep it in the refrigerator . Best worked for me is by cooking quinoa in the night . Now I have lot of time to bring it to room temperature followed by pack it , store it and use it .
Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container ( such as tupperware , rubbermaid , etc. ) is the best method . Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container . After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel . This is due to the hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere ) of brown sugar . You 'll see " brown sugar keepers " in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks . The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar . Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up . You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit . This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture ( due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food ) .
It is not only sane , it is safer than any other packaging you can make . At least here in Germany , meat from the supermarket is not just wrapped in celophane , the celophane is glued to the tray . The packaging is air-proof . And the air inside the packaging is not normal air , it is a mostly sterile atmosphere with a composition different from normal air , which hampers bacterial growth ( I think it has lowered oxygen content , but I 'm not absolutely sure on that detail ) . This means that 1 . no bacterial contamination is possible after the meat has left the packaging plant , and 2 . the bacteria already present in the meat when it was packed grow slower than normal . So if this is your type of package , do yourself a favor and leave the meat in it . I have n't frozen such packages , so I do n't know how big a problem they have with freezer burn . But it may become a problem in the long term , as the moisture from the meat will sublimate on the inside of the celophane . If this is not the type of package you get , and you have just plain clingy film wrapped around meat and a styrofoam tray ( I 've seen other products wrapped this way , but not meat ) , there is still no problem to freeze in it . The pad full of meat juices ( this is not blood btw ) is a good feeding place for bacteria , but the meat itself is as least as good as the pad , so you wo n't be reducing the risk if you remove it . By leaving the meat in the original package , you reduce the risk of additional bacterial contamination during transfer . And no other container will offer better food safety . You can still consider a transfer for reasons other than food safety . First , you can portion and/or preshape the ground meat before freezing , and then you 'll have to repackage it . Second , if the package is not tight enough , you risk freezer burn . But if these do n't apply , it is probably best to leave it in the original container - this is convenient , and not dangerous at all .
I can not tell you how they do it at that specific location , how your method differs , or what you 're doing wrong . I do n't really even know exactly how you 're brewing your coffee . However , I can tell you how to brew a consistent cup using the best possible practices . Here 's a list of things to consider Grind your coffee immediately ( not the night before ) before brewing Use a Burr Grinder , not a blade grinder . This will ensure that the grounds are of a consistent size , and provides even extraction . There is no reputable coffee shop that uses a blade grinder , and with good reason . Get a Burr grinder . If you do n't want to drop the cash you can get a hand mill for about ~ $ 20-30 . Weight your beans , do not measure them by Volume . Beans from different regions and varieties vary in density , and size . This can really throw off volume measurements . Use filtered water . Most coffee shops will have a filtration system for the entire store to prevent mineral build up in their coffee and espresso machines , as well as providing a better cup of coffee . Learn how coffee hits your palate , and learn how to adjust your brewing variables ( grind size , water/coffee ratio , brew time , temperature ) . Ditch the auto-drip . Learn how to do a manual pourover or press pot . You 'll have much more control over your brewing variables , and be able to pin point the extraction method that fits your palate best . I deeply urge you to try coffee that is n't Starbucks . Starbucks might be a notch above grocery store coffee , but is n't at all interesting ( to put it lightly ) . Try Stumptown , Blue Bottle , Intellegensia , Ruby 's Colorful Coffees . You 'll likely forget about Starbucks soon after trying coffee 's from any of the roasters I listed . Like I said . Starbucks is n't really interesting coffee . Its pretty bland , brewed with a standard auto-drip . If it tastes different it could be for many reasons , such as sitting in a thermos for a long period of time , or the grounds may sit too long after being ground . Typically larger auto-drip machines use a coarser grind because the hopper is larger . This can affect taste . There 's too many variables to nail down how to brew exactly like that starbucks store . In the mean time , I urge you to try more interesting bean varieties . You 're really missing out . For the record , Starbucks main competition ... McDonalds . Give it a read <URL>
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
end question
start question
How long can I leave a freshly baked cheesecake out before it goes in the refrigerator ?
Referring to the quotes from the below links ; • " Baked cheesecake should be refrigerated as soon as it is cool or it may develop harmful bacteria from heat resistant spores . " <URL> • " Foods made with eggs and milk such as pumpkin pie , custard pie and cheesecake , must first be safely baked to a safe minimum internal temperature of 160 ° F. Then , they must be refrigerated after baking . Eggs and milk have high protein and moisture content and when these baked products are left at room temperature , conditions are ripe for bacteria to multiply . It 's not necessary to refrigerate most other cakes , cookies or breads unless they have a perishable filling or frosting . " <URL> When to throw it out ; a quote from the link below ; " Refrigerator Foods When to Save and When to Throw It Out FOOD ... ... ... ... . Held above 40 ° F for over 2 hours Cheesecake ... ... . . Discard <URL>
Cheesecake is a custard , so your very best indicator of doneness is temperature . There are a range of opinions , from about 150 F to 165 F / 65 C to 73 C , measured at the center of the pan , in the center of the layer . If you do n't have an instant read thermometer , generally , you want a thin knife to come out clean from the center ; similarly , when the pan is shaken a bit , only the center should jiggle slightly . These indicators are not as good as temperature , so you will need to gain experiene to interpret them . Once you are measuring properly , problems with the top of the cheesecake being done , but the inside being too unset may be mitigated by : Baking in a water bath ( which you indicate you are already doing ) Baking at a lower temperature ( within reason ; you indicate you are already baking at a fairly low temperature ) Baking in a wider pan , so the cheesecake is more shallow Do not use convection Since you area already using a bath and a low baking temperature , if you are still having problems once you start checking for doneness by temperature , I would suggest checking your oven 's calibration with an oven thermometer to be sure it is not running hot .
Hard cheeses ( e.g. parmesan ) will typically last several months in the refrigerator once removed from the packaging . The larger the chunk , the longer it will last . If mold forms on the outside , simply cut it off and continue using . There is no reason to throw-away good parmesan .
Food tends to become unpleasant before it becomes actually dangerous . I would try to eat things within 3 days of making them , though that 's just my personal guideline and is n't based on any scientific data . If you are n't going to eat it that quickly , freezing it after it 's been cooked and thawing it the day you want to eat it is probably a better idea .
There are 2 ways of looking at it ; how long it will be safe to eat ( ie from food poisoning ) and how long it will still be appetizing and taste alright ( ie not gone rancid ) . As you 've taken it from the tin it wo n't get that tinny flavour but as time goes on may absorb other flavours from the fridge so make sure you keep it away from anything that is strongly smelling . Also as around 87 % of the coconut milk is fats it will soon go rancid , so keep that in mind , ( you 'll know when it does by giving it a quick sniff ) . In terms of food safety , if it 's UHT which most are , then it could probably last for a long time ( as long as UHT milk ) so about 2 1/2 weeks I 'd say . Otherwise if it 's not UHT then not as long . I would say about the same time as fresh milk so around a week as it contains sugars and fats and so is a very compelling proposition for any bacteria . Other sites discussing this : <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Hope this helps !
The <URL> clearly recommends not leaving cooking appliances unattended when no one is home : Based on 2006-2010 annual averages : Unattended cooking was by far the leading contributing factor in home cooking fires . [ ... ] Ranges accounted for the largest share ( 58 % ) of home cooking fire incidents . Ovens accounted for 16 % . At the time this <URL> was written , the Fire Administration said ( they have since updated the page ) : The leading cause of fires in the kitchen is unattended cooking . Stay in the kitchen when you are frying , grilling , or broiling food . If you leave the kitchen for even a short period of time , turn off the stove . If you are simmering , baking , roasting , or boiling food , check it regularly , remain in the home while food is cooking , and use a timer to remind you that you 're cooking . Stay alert ! To prevent cooking fires , you have to be alert . You wo n't be if you are sleepy , have been drinking alcohol , or have taken medicine that makes you drowsy .
While not an exact match , <URL> indicates up to 2 days for an apple pie at room temperature ; one would expect the baked apple to have similar properties . So yes , I would expect eating your baked apple the next day should be fine . I would not hold them much longer than that , though , as the cooking helps bring out moisture which will foster growth of molds over time .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
Preheating the tea pot with hot water will also prevent the tea pot from cracking when you do add boiling hot water for the tea to steep in . I will say that I have a fairly thick-walled tea pot , I rarely preheat it , and I 've never seen any danger of cracking . However , if I had a nice china pot , I would preheat it . Better safe than sorry !
By maximising first the flavour of every single nut and then maximising the surface : Gently roast the cashews , then grind them finely . If the resulting " gritty " texture is not to your taste , grind them further until you get a nut butter , which should dissolve nicely especially in cream-type soups .
assuming you put a piece of foil between the crust and rice , just lift up an edge to check it . .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
You do n't have to peel garlic before using a garlic press , but doing so lets you press more garlic before you have to clean out the skins and so forth . If you only need to press a clove or two , there is not a lot of reason to peel first , since you will just have to clean the press out once .
Posted as answer by request of @BaffledCook : Here 's an slightly informal blog post outlining changes in taste between varying degrees of freshness in the grind of a coffee . <URL> The short version is that the coffee starts losing freshness as soon as it is ROASTED . The longer it sits the faster it goes stale . The more surface area it has ( ie : you 've ground it up ; also , the finer the grind ) , the faster it goes stale . The more you expose it to air , the faster it goes stale . So , seal your coffee in an air tight container at room temperature . And grind as close to the time you add water to it as possible . How much of a difference detected depends on the the actual coffee been , the roast , the taster 's taste buds . If you buy a bean that 's been sitting on the shelf for 3 months already , you will probably notice less of a difference than a bean that was roasted last week . I buy beans that are roasted and sold within a week , and I DO notice a difference if I leave the grounds for a day or two before drinking .
Here is a great resource for this : <URL> . In a nutshell , though , there really is no way to reduce nitrate content without exhaustive preparation . We 're talking grinding , pressing out the juice , then heating the juice to produce leafy veggie tofu . Yuck .
No . In most ( all ? ) places that sell chicken eggs in quantity , the eggs are not fertile . For that , there needs to be a rooster involved . The hen that laid your egg does n't hang out with roosters . Your best bet is to acquire a few fertilized eggs from a farmer who keeps chickens . You can also buy fertilized eggs online , just search for " fertilized chicken eggs for sale " .
Sadly , baked potatoes are one of those foods that are only truly at their peak when first baked . Either re-baking them or microwaving them will give the least bad results for reheating . Your better bet , however , is to give them a new life , for example as potato pancakes , hash browns , as an ingredient in a hash , or similar application . While they wo n't have the same quality as a fresh baked potato , these can be very good dishes .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
The USDA recommends storing hard boiled eggs , whether peeled or not , for 1 week . I personally have kept &amp; eaten them after 2-3 weeks . I have also cracked one open that was no longer edible &amp; believe me - You will know when that happens ! The egg will will smell rotten &amp; you will have no question as to whether or not to eat it ! Some additional Info on storing eggs : Eggs should be stored in a refrigerator at about 40 degrees F , mainly to reduce the chances that any bacteria on the shell will multiply and cause a risk of illness . Buy refrigerated eggs and store them in the refrigerator as soon as your get home . However , even under refrigeration , eggs slowly lose carbon dioxide , which enlarges the size of the air cell and causes the yolk to flatten and the white to spread . Fresh Egg - Refrigerated raw shell eggs will keep without significant quality loss for about 4 - 5 weeks beyond the " sell by " date or about 3 weeks after you bring them home . Fresh egg whites - 2 to 4 days Fresh egg yolks ( unbroken and covered with water ) - 2 to 4 days Deviled eggs - 2 to 3 days Leftover egg dishes - 3 to 4 days
Roasting the bones first will add a deeper flavor . The roast flavor may or may not be desired , it depends on your preferences . This is from the article I 've posted below : " Roasting caramelizes them , heightening sweetness and deepening flavor . But any blackening will make meat stock bitter . ' You do n't want that burned bone thing , ' cautions Keller . " <URL>
end question
