start question
What to do of a reward card after it is empty ?
You should cut it up and discard it , as it is useless . Future reward cards do n't need old cards to add balances to . The physical card has no cost to the giver , and once empty , is of no value to you .
It will be similar to what you have said -- the options price will adjust accordingly following a stock split - Here 's a good reference on different scenarios - <URL> also if you have time to read <URL>
If all of the following conditions are satisfied : Your utilization is consistently high due to a very low limit relative to your monthly expenditures You pay your balance every month Your income and score is high enough to warrant a credit limit increase There are no errors in your credit files Then applying for a credit limit increase will most likely result in an increase in your score , because the high utilization will have a greater impact than a single hard inquiry that the limit increase request will generate . But if your current score and reported income is not high enough to warrant an increase , the hard inquiry will lower your score slightly . The issue here is whether the creditor thinks you could handle a higher limit , and this is significantly related to what annual income you have reported to them , as well as any other debts that they might see in your credit files . A good history of timely payment on their own account is also a factor , but not the only one . With respect to discrepancies in the scores , note that CreditKarma reports TransUnion and Equifax credit files and scores , which are based on the VantageScore 3.0 model ; Experian uses FICO . These different scoring models should be in the same ballpark but it is not unusual for there to be variations . Also , different agencies may report different information -- for example , hard inquiries are generated on different files because a given creditor may request your file from one agency and not the others . On a personal note , I myself was once in a similar situation . I distrusted credit offers ( after having been burned by predatory lenders years ago ) , and the only card I had was issued by my bank , with a very low limit . I used it constantly , but always paid it off . Eventually I realized that I was not doing myself any favors : My utilization was all over the map because it depended on whether I had just paid off the balance before the creditor reported it to the agencies I was not taking advantage of card offers with rewards , which I rightfully earned by not carrying a balance Limiting myself to a single card was risky since it is a single point of failure ; if it were lost or stolen , the inconvenience would be substantial . So , I applied for a few lines of credit , and increased my total limit by a factor of about 30 , dropping my utilization from nearly 100 % each month to less than 3 % .
No , it wo n't affect your score until your statement is posted . Paying your bill before your statement is posted is actually a good way to keep your credit utilization low . If you 're worried about high credit utilization negatively affecting your credit score , consider paying your bill several times a month to ensure that when your final monthly statement is posted , your utilization is still low . When my credit limit was very low while I was in college , I did this almost every month , and I 've seen other sites recommend this practice as well . From <URL> : The easiest way [ to lower credit utilization ] is to make credit card payments more than once a month so that your balance never gets too high . and <URL> : Consider making payments to creditors more than once each month . Otherwise , if you put a major expense -- like a new appliance -- on a credit card , even if you plan to pay it off , your FICO score may take a hit . The reason is that credit scores are calculated as a snapshot in time , so if that happens to be right after you charged a new $ 700 washing machine , your utilization ratio will look worryingly high . Remember , though , that it 's best to have some balance on your card when your statement is posted ( assuming you pay it off in full each month ) , because as the chart shows , 0 % utilization is about as bad as utilization > 31-40 % : Also , remember that credit utilization affects your credit score <URL> , so if you have high utilization one month but a lower utilization the next month , the hit to your score will disappear once a statement with low utilization is posted .
HSBC , Hang Seng , and other HK banks had a series of special savings account offers when I lived in HK a few years ago . Some could be linked to the performance of your favorite stock or country 's stock index . Interest rates were higher back then , around 6 % one year . What they were effectively doing is taking the interest you would have earned and used it to place a bet on the stock or index in question . Technically , one way this can be done , for instance , is with call options and zero coupon bonds or notes . But there was nothing to strategize with once the account was set up , so the investor did not need to know how it worked behind the scenes ... Looking at the deposit plus offering in particular , this one looks a little more dangerous than what I describe . See , now we are in an economy of low almost zero interest rates . So to boost the offered rate the bank is offering you an account where you guarantee the AUD/HKD rate for the bank in exchange for some extra interest . Effectively they sell AUD options ( or want to cover their own AUD exposures ) and you get some of that as extra interest . Problem is , if the AUD declines , then you lose money because the savings and interest will be converted to AUD at a contractual rate that you are agreeing to now when you take the deposit plus account . This risk of loss is also mentioned in the fine print . I would n't recommend this especially if the risks are not clear . If you read the fine print , you may determine you are better off with a multicurrency account , where you can change your HK$ into any currency you like and earn interest in that currency . None of these were " leveraged " forex accounts where you can bet on tiny fluctuations in currencies . Tiny being like 1 % or 2 % moves . Generally you should beware anything offering 50:1 or more leverage as a way to possibly lose all of your money quickly . Since you mentioned being a US citizen , you should learn about IRS form TD F 90-22 .1 ( which must be filed yearly if you have over $ 10,000 in foreign accounts ) and google a little about the " foreign account tax compliance act " , which shows a shift of the government towards more strict oversight of foreign accounts .
It can certainly help build a credit score , but remember that businesses gain credit differently from individuals . Depending on the country , there is n't usually a national register of business credit ratings the way there is for individuals . The credit record you 'd be gaining is with your own bank only . Banks will usually base your business credit record on revenue and transactional loads rather than merely on having and holding a credit card . That said , it is n't always that easy to get a business credit card and so it is a useful thing to have for credibility with clients ( depending on the type of work you do ) . A credit card can also sometimes work out cheaper ( and faster ) for financing small overdrafts than a regular business overdraft facility . That said , I 've found that larger loans over a five-year term can work out much cheaper for an established business than they would for an individual , even where the business itself has no history of using credit .
It would n't hurt . Even if you have n't had any credit or loan activity , someone may have gotten a card or a loan under your name : identity theft . That gives you the opportunity to clear things up before you apply the first time . Granted , it may be a long shot , but as littleadv said : " Why not ? "
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
As long as the fine print permits this , it 's a quick 2 % . Be careful that your credit score may drop momentarily if you use the credit and for that cycle have high utilization .
" As-is " means that no matter what the inspector finds the seller will not delay closing , repair , or provide money/discount to repair . If you want to go this route then yes you need a complete inspection by a trained and certified home inspector . No matter what they find , big or small , you will then have the opportunity to walk away . If they find small things , then it is up to you . If they find any big things or open ended things then you will likely walk away . Do n't let the seller , their agent , or your agent try and talk you out of the inspection . Despite the claim as " as-is " many jurisdiction also require the seller to disclose all known material defect as a part of the listing and other related documents . So if they spent $ 5,000 covering up the evidence of the leak that will cost $ 20,000 they have to tell you . If it is discovered soon after you move in , you still may be able to take them to court . But you will need that inspection report to show that you tried to find all the defects . Why does the seller go the " as-is " route ? Some have something to hide . Others just want to speed the transaction along . If the defects are small , and you are able to handle the repairs yourself , then settlement can proceeded quickly . But if you insist on a new roof , then they have to schedule it and it can delay thing for weeks . Many times the seller is offering the house at a discount already and does n't want to reduce the money even further .
Shares often come associated with a set of rights , such as ability to vote in the outcome of the company . Some shares do not have this right , however . With your ability to vote in the outcome of the company , you could help dictate that the company paid dividends at a point in time . Or many other varieties of outcomes . Also , if there were any liquidity events due to demand of the shares , this is typically at a much higher price than the shares are now when the company is private/closely held .
If you can get a rate of savings that is higher than your debt , you save . If you ca n't then you pay off your debt . That makes the most of the money you have . Also to think about : what are you goals ? Do you want to own a home , start a family , further your education , move to a new town ? All of these you would need to save up for . If you can do these large transactions in cash you will be better off . If it were me I would do what I think is a parroting of Dave Ramsay 's advice Pay off credit cards and other unsecured debt . Save up several months of living expenses as cash . Put that in an accessible place and earn a bit on it . Contribute 100 % to a retirement account . ( If you start now , you can achieve amazing things when you retire ) Pay off that low interest debt Invest a little for fun Save up for a big purchase Enjoy your extra money . Congratulations by the way . It is n't easy to do what you have accomplished and you will lead a simpler life if you do n't have to worry about money everyday .
The <URL> does not explicitly specify a minimum spending requirement . It does though , have the following catch-all clause for closing the account : We may : • cancel your Account , • suspend the ability to make charges , • cancel or suspend any feature on your Account , and • notify merchants that your Account has been cancelled or suspended . If we do any of these , you must still pay us for all charges under the terms of this Agreement . We may do any of these things at our discretion , even if you pay on time and your Account is not in default . If your Account is cancelled , you must destroy your cards . We may agree to reinstate your Account after a cancellation . If we do this , we may : • reinstate any additional cards issued on your Account , • charge you any applicable annual fees , and • charge you a fee for reinstating the Account . One would suspect that American Express would happily collect the fee from anyone who holds the card , but is not using it ( in any way ) . Someone , though , that is n't spending the expected amount of money , but is availing themselves of the 24 hour concierge service , etc. , would probably find their privileges revoked and/or their card canceled .
We use the PC financial credit card . We switched to PC banking about 8 years ago and have been extremely happy with them . You get points for using their banking services and if you use their credit card you earn points . You can use the points earned for free groceries or purchasing anything at No Frills , Independant and Loblawas Superstores . With the points we 've earned over the years through just our regular banking , we 've purchased a 6 piece patio set , patio swing , tons of free groceries and currently have $ 500 worth of points that we 're using to purchase food and gifts for the Christmas season . You can find out the particulars on their points program throught their webiste at www.pcfinancial.ca
Yes , it can be a good idea to close unused credit cards . I am going to give some reasons why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts , and then I will talk about why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea . Why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts " I 'd like to close the cards . " That is reason enough . Simplifying your financial life is a good thing . Fewer accounts let you focus your energy on the accounts that you actually use . Unused accounts still need to be monitored for fraud . You mentioned that you have high credit card balances that you are carrying . This may indicate that you have trouble using credit responsibly , and having more credit available to you might be a temptation for you . If these unused cards have annual fees , keeping them open will cost money . Unused cards sometimes get closed by the bank due to inactivity . As a result , the advice often given is that , in addition to not closing them , you are supposed to charge something to it every month . This , of course , takes more of your time and energy to worry about , as well as giving you another monthly bill to pay . Why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea to close unused accounts Other answers will tell you that it may hurt your credit score for two reasons : it would increase your utilization and lower your average account age . Before we talk about the validity of these two points , we need to discuss the importance of the credit score . Depending on what your credit score currently is , these actions may have minimal impact on your life . If you are in the mid 700 's or higher , <URL> , and closing these cards will likely not impact anything for you in a significant way . If you are n't that high in your score yet , do you have an immediate need for a high score ? Are you planning on getting more credit cards , or take out any more loans ? I would suggest that , since you have credit card debt , you should n't be taking out any new loans until you get that cleaned up . So your score in the mean time is not very important . Are you currently working on eliminating this credit card debt ? If so , your utilization number will improve , even after you close these accounts , when you get those paid off . Utilization has only a temporary effect on your score ; when your utilization improves , your score improves immediately . Your average account age may or may not improve when you close these accounts , depending on how old they are compared to the accounts you are leaving open . However , the impact of this might not be as much as you think . I realize that this advice is different from other answers , or other things that you may read online . But in my own life , I do a lot of things that are supposedly bad for the credit score : I only have two credit cards , ages 2.5 and 1.5 years . ( I closed my other cards when I got these . ) My typical monthly utilization is around 25 % on these cards , although I pay off the balance in full each month , never paying interest . I have no car loan anymore , and my mortgage is only 4 months old . No other debt . Despite those " terrible " credit practices , my credit score is very high . Conclusion Make your payments on time , get out of debt , and your score will be fine . Do n't keep unwanted accounts open just because someone told you that you should .
A good time to invest in gold WAS about ten years ago , when it had reached a 20-year bottom around $ 300 an ounce . That 's when I was buying ( gold stocks , not physical gold ) . Since then , it 's gone up 5-6 times in ten years . It might continue to go up of course , but it also has long way down to go , because it has come up " too far , too fast . " I have since sold my gold stocks . Alternatives to gold include other metals such as silver and copper ( which actually belong in the same chemical family ) as well as platinum and palladium . But they , too , have run up a lot in price over the past ten years .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
If I recall correctly , in order to activate it without another human 's intervention I had to call from a phone number they had on file . Otherwise , I believe I would have had to speak to a rep and do it that way . Presumably , that would entail some sort of verification that I was indeed the legitimate owner of the account . Another possibility , which has little to nothing to do with your account security , is management of the number-space . Cards that are not activated in some period of time ( 180 days ? ) can easily be cancelled . Whether this means that they then reuse the number or not , I have no idea . This may be question of reducing their liability , by reducing the number of possible cards that can be used fraudulently , since they ca n't be used until activated . ( Granted , if they still have the sticker on them and there are no safeguards built into the activation process , it would be a trivial matter to activate the card . )
Many people who do transfer a balance from one credit card to another have no clue as to what is going on and how credit cards work . If you transfer a balance from one credit card to another , you are charged a fee of anywhere from 3 % upwards ( subject to a minimum of $ 10 or so ) up front . If Credit Card A has balance $ 1000 and you transfer it to Credit Card B which is offering no interest for a year on the transferred balance , you owe Credit Card B $ 1050 ( say ) . In most cases , that $ 50 has to be paid off as part of the following month 's bill . If you are carrying a revolving balance on Credit Card B , that $ 50 will typically be charged interest from the day of the transfer . Your monthly bill will not ( necessarily ) include that $ 1000 you owe for one year or six months or whatever the transfer agreement you accepted says . If you tend to pay anything less ( even a penny ) than full payment of each month 's bill on Credit Card B , your partial payment will be applied to that $ 1000 first , and anything left over will be applied to the monthly balance . In short , if you do n't pay in full each month , that $ 1000 will not be " yours " for a year ; you may end up paying $ 50 interest for borrowing $ 1000 for just one or two months , and the rest of your balance is the gift that keeps on giving as the credit card company likes to say . UPDATE : This has changed slightly in the United States . Any amount paid over the minimum amount due is charged to the higher-interest balances . So in this case , if you had $ 1000 at a 0 % promotional rate and a regular balance of $ 500 , and the minimum payment was $ 100 , and you paid $ 150 , $ 100 would pay down the promotional balance , and the extra $ 50 would pay down the regular balance . About the only way to make the deal work in your favor is to Transfer money only if you have paid the full amount due on the last two statements before the date of the transfer and are not carrying a revolving balance . Check your monthly statements to make sure they show Finance Charge of 0.00 . Many people have never seen such a sight and are unaware that this can be observed in nature . Make sure that you pay each month 's bill in full ( not the minimum monthly payment due ) each month for a whole year after that . Make sure that the bill containing that $ 1000 ( coming out a year after the transfer date ) is also paid in full . Very many credit-card users do not have the financial discipline to go through with this program . That is why credit card companies love to push transfer balances on consumers : the whole thing is a cash cow for them where they in effect get to charge usurious rates of interest without running afoul of the law . $ 50 interest for a one-year loan of $ 1000 is pretty high at current rates ; $ 50 interest for a two or three month loan where the customer does not even notice the screwing he is getting is called laughing all the way to the bank . See also the answers to <URL>
There are several reasons it is not recommended to trade stocks pre - or post-market , meaning outside of RTH ( regular trading hours ) . Liquidity is very low compared to RTH Fills of market orders can be way off your ordered price ( = possibly higher slippage than in RTH ) because of low Liquidity If you use a leveraged account , pre - and post-market margins are significantly higher than during RTH Since your question is not very detailed I have to assume you trade with a time horizon of at least more than a day , meaning you do not trade intra-day . If this is true , all of the above points are a non-issue for you and a different set of points becomes important . Enter and exit trades during post-market or enter and exit trades at market open , using orders you enter one day before in the post-market session - those orders will be executed automatically or enter trades via Limit and Stop Limit Orders exclusively As a general rule , using ( 3 ) is the safest regardless of what and how you trade because you get price guarantee in trade for execution guarantee . In the case of mid to longer term trading ( 1 week + ) any of those points is viable , depending on how you want to do things , what your style is and what is the most comfortable for you . A few remarks though : ( 2 ) are market orders , so if the open is quite the ride and you are in the back of the execution queue , you can get significant slippage . ( 1 ) may require ( live ) data of the post-market session , which is often not easy to come by for the entire US stock universe . Depending on your physical execution method ( phone , fax , online ) , you may lack accurate information of the post-market . If you want to execute orders based on RTH and only want to do that after hours because of personal schedule constraints , this is not really important . Personally I would always recommend ( 3 ) , independent of the use case because it allows you more control over your orders and their fills . TL ; DR : If you are trading long-term it does not really matter . If you go down to the intra-day level of holding time , it becomes relevant .
end question
start question
How to handle currency redenomination in gnucash ?
I found out that government is going to change ISO 4217 code of local currency . So Gnucash adaptation to this would be easy and mostly mechanical . Duplicate all accounts you have with new ISO currency Set fixed rate between old and new currency Transfer all asserts from old accounts Delete old accounts
The <URL> looked at ' safe ' withdrawal rates from retirement portfolios . They found it was safe to withdraw 4 % of a portfolio consisting of stocks and bonds . I can not immediately find exactly what specific investment allocations they used , but note that they found a portfolio consisting largely of stocks would allow for the withdrawal of 3 % - 4 % and still keep up with inflation . In this case , if you are able to fund $ 30,000 , the study claims it would be safe to withdraw $ 900 - $ 1200 a year ( that is , pay out as scholarships ) while allowing the scholarship to grow sufficiently to cover inflation , and that this should work in perpetuity . My guess is that they invest such scholarship funds in a fairly aggressive portfolio . Most likely , they choose something along these lines : 70 - 80 % stocks and 20 - 30 % bonds . This is probably more risky than you 'd want to take , but should give higher returns than a more conservative portfolio of perhaps 50 - 60 % stocks , 40 - 50 % bonds , over the long term . Just a regular , interest-bearing savings account is n't going to be enough . They almost never even keep up with inflation . Yes , if the stock market or the bond market takes a hit , the investment will suffer . But over the long term , it should more than recover the lost capital . Such scholarships care far more about the very long term and can weather a few years of bad returns . This is roughly similar to retirement planning . If you expect to be retired for , say , 10 years , you wo n't worry too much about pulling out your retirement funds . But it 's quite possible to retire early ( say , at 40 ) and plan for an infinite retirement . You just need a lot more money to do so . $ 3 million , invested appropriately , should allow you to pull out approximately $ 90,000 a year ( adjusted upward for inflation ) forever . I leave the specifics of how to come up with $ 3 million as an exercise for the reader . :) As an aside , there 's a Memorial and Traffic Safety Fund which ( kindly and gently ) solicited a $ 10,000 donation after my wife was killed in a motor vehicle accident . That would have provided annual donations in her name , in perpetuity . This shows you do n't need $ 30,000 to set up a scholarship or a fund . I chose to go another way , but it was an option I seriously considered . Edit : The Trinity study actually only looked at a 30 year withdrawal period . So long as the investment was n't exhausted within 30 years , it was considered a success . The Trinity study has also been criticised when it comes to retirement . Nevertheless , there 's some withdrawal rate at which point your investment is expected to last forever . It just may be slightly smaller than 3-4 % per year .
Let 's define better the situation and then analyze it : Start with : End with : Process : So has the same amount of money , just in a different bank account , but and changed states . now does n't have money , and does , as the result of the transaction between , and . The gift tax issue I see is the transfer of money from ( you ) to ( your brother ) . If you 're a US tax resident then you have $ 14K exemption from gift tax per person per year . # 20K is more than that , so it will be subject to the tax . The fact that a third person was involved as an intermediary is irrelevant - for the purpose of gift tax there 's no distinction between using a bank for transfers or a private party . Keep in mind that paying tuition directly to the institution on behalf of your brother may help you mitigate your gift tax liability - tuition payment made on behalf of your brother is exempt from gift tax . But it has to be made directly to the institution , it can not pass through your brother .
It will cost the same no matter what currency you use , unless you have access to a deal with a currency exchange that gives you an especially favourable conversion rate for a particular currency . If the current exchange rates are US$ 1.70 to the # , CA$ 1.80 to the # and HK$ 12.50 to the # , then # 1 , US$ 1.70 , CA$ 1.80 and HK$ 12.50 are just four different ways of writing the same amount of money . So whether you pay in US$ , CA$ or HK$ it 's the same amount of money that you 're paying .
Federal income taxes are indeed expenses , they 're just not DEDUCTIBLE expenses on your 1120 . Federal Income Tax Expense is usually a subcategory under Taxes . This is one of the items that will be a book-to-tax difference on Schedule M-1 . I am presuming you are talking about a C corporation , as an S corporation is not likely to be paying federal taxes itself , but would pass the liability through to the members . If you 're paying your personal 1040 taxes out of an S-corporation bank account , that 's an owner 's draw just like paying any of your personal non-business expenses . I would encourage you to get a tax professional to prepare your corporate tax returns . It 's not quite as simple as TurboTax Business makes it out to be . ;) Mariette IRS Circular 230 Notice : Please note that any tax advice contained in this communication is not intended to be used , and can not be used , by anyone to avoid penalties that may be imposed under federal tax law .
Today typically a Business needs to hold accounts in more than one currency . Banks in certain countries are offering what is called a dual currency account . It is essentially 2 accounts with same account number but different currency . So One can have an account number say 123456 and have it in say AUD and USD . So the balance will always show as X AUD and Y USD . If you deposit funds [ electronic , check or cash ] in USD ; your USD balance goes up . Likewise at the time of withdrawal you have to specify what currency you are withdrawing . Interest rates are calculated at different percentage for different currencies . So in a nutshell it would like operating 2 accounts , with the advantage of remembering only one account number . Designate a particular currency as default currency . So if you do n't quote a currency along with the account number , it would be treated as default currency . Otherwise you always quote the account number and currency . Of-course bundled with other services like free Fx Advice etc it makes the entire proposition very attractive . Edit : If you have AUD 100 and USD 100 , if you try and withdraw USD 110 , it will not be allowed ; Unless you also sign up for a auto sweep conversion . If you deposit a GBP check into the account , by default it would get converted into AUD [ assuming AUD is the default currency ]
Some aspect is legal some in grey area . Please maintain proper documentation . Generally for amounts in question , there is less scrutiny from Income tax . Buying on behalf of your friends ... First there is a limit of 250,000 USD , so fine on this point . Second is only licensed dealers can participate in FX . In your case , it can appear that you are acting as dealer . On getting money back , this looks like gift and if it 's more than 50,000 in a year it is taxable . Of course if you establish that it was convenience then no issues . So you need good amount of documentation , plus if you are getting paid after few months , tax can treat this as personal loan and arrive at deemed interest . Edits : There is no guideline as to what the income tax will ask you , if there is a scrutiny . One would need to have paper work , a letter from friend requesting you to purchase things . You would have to keep a record of items ordered and match it with credit card statement . Proof that the goods were delivered to his address . Proof of equivalent credit entry from your friend into your bank statement . Reason why your friend could not do this himself . i.e. what is stopping him from getting a international debit/credit card ? So if you think you can convince that its convenience , yes , else taxes .
The value of Coins &amp; Currency is more of Demand Vs Supply Situation . The value of Coins is not just due to it being old , but also - due to how many are available in the market Vs how many people want to buy that . - The condition of the coin - The percived historical importance - The metal used . Older coins were based on Gold/Silver - The design , how pleasing it looks For example the 1876 US Nickel around 300,000 were minted . The 1916 US Nickel around 400,000 were minted . However the 1916 Nickel is at more premium than the 1876 . This is because there are many collectors who want to complete the collection post 1900 . They can never complete the 1800 to 1900 collection as other year coins are not available . It is hard to tell which currency will catch craze amongst collectors . That 's what will drive the prize . For example if 50 years from now , Zimbabwe becomes a leading developed country , there will be craze / nostaliga to collect things of past . Certain coins like the American Double Eagle are a craze becuase the design is very good , its made of Gold , has history to it . Its sold for USD 7-8 Million , Or the USD 1 Dollar uncut sheets [ 16 notes in a sheet ] , the sheet goes for around 1-2 Million USD As an individual if you have some coins / currencies keep them more as a hobby than as something that would return value . Investements in Collectibles and Art is an emerging form of investment and needs to be looked at seperately and should ' nt be mixed with a simple hobby .
In your transaction history , you may notice entries that show a money market purchase or redemption . These transactions appear whenever there is an automatic cash sweep into or out of your sweep vehicle . There is no fee to move money to or from your sweep account . For more information about how the sweep program works . View my account history . The cash sweep program is automatic . You may notice a credit or debit in your cash or margin balance immediately following a trade , deposit , or withdrawal . Upon settlement of the transaction , cash will sweep to or from your cash sweep vehicle , such as the Insured Deposit Account ( IDA ) , with no action required by you . Sales proceeds and deposits will sweep from your cash or margin balance into your sweep vehicle . When you make a purchase or withdrawal , funds will sweep from your sweep vehicle to the cash or margin balance . Money markets are dividend-earning investments and are often called sweep accounts . Uninvested cash in your account " sweeps " automatically into the money market . The same process occurs in reverse when you need funds from the money market for a purchase or withdrawal . There is no fee to move money into or out of the sweep account . Change cash sweep On this page , you can find information about your current cash sweep vehicle and see if others are available for your account . Click the " Change cash sweep vehicle " button to make changes . You can also call a Client Services representative at 800-669-3900 for further assistance . Change cash sweep
I found a calculator at <URL> that takes into account the 2010 deal to defer part of the tax into 2011 and 2012
The answer is just close your eyes and ignore it ( in your words ) . I 'm right there with you , the amount of detail that I track in my personal finances would be called obscene by some people . But as you look at these features in any accounting application , you need to ask the question " What does this information represent ? " In the case of your bank and credit card accounts , the reconciliation marker represents that you have received documentation from the issuing institution which you have verified against your accounts . Marking them off confirms that you have reviewed the information , and that you checked for errors . These markers exist on all transactions , whichever end of the splits you are looking at . When reviewing the Expense side of the transaction , it might make less sense to see these reconciliation markers , because as you stated , nobody receives documentation related to their expenses . However , if you itemized your expenses and kept a separate log of certain transactions ( like a notebook where you track gasoline and/or mileage on your car ) , it might be useful to ' reconcile ' your records once a month . Checking off individual transactions , and verifying a new ' balance ' in terms of gas consumed or miles driven , would allow you to identify any inconsistencies in your records . Not everyone would find such an activity useful , thus the reconciliation markers are present everywhere but required nowhere .
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
What you 're asking for is a short-term , large return investment . When looking for big returns in a short period of time , risk is inevitable . The more risk you are willing to assume , the higher your potential returns . Of course , the flip is is that the higher your risk , the higher the potential to lose all your money ! Since this is an exercise for school ( and not real money and not your life savings ) your best bet is to " go big or go home " . You can safely assume 100 % risk ! Do n't look for value stocks , dividend stocks , or anything that pays a steady return over a long period of time . Instead , look for something risky that has the potential of going up , up , up in the next few months . Are you allowed to trade options in your fake portfolio ? Options can have big risk and big reward potential . Penny stocks are super volatile , too . Do some research , look for a fad . In other words , you will most likely lose it all . But you get a little lucky , you could win this thing outright by making some risky investments . A 5 % chance of winning $ 3000 vs 95 % of going broke may be pretty good odds if everyone else is value investing for just a few months . You will need to get lucky . Go big or go home !
As you say , the currency carry trade should n't work . The deluge of new cash into a high-interest currency should result in falling exchange rates . <URL> by Òscar Jordà and Alan Taylor of the University of California , Davis , may be offer one approach which is more stable . According to <URL> : They find that a refined carry-trade strategy -- one that incorporates a measure of long-term value -- produces more consistent profits and is less prone to huge losses than one that targets the highest yield . However , exchange rates , central bank interest rates , as well as money supply are all political as well as economic constructs . An economic driver for arbitrage may be offset by political will ( such as US quantative easing ) or even social malaise ( Japanese continual low inward investment ) . I would n't go so far as calling the carry trade " free money " - currencies have proven far too unstable for that - but state interference in markets tends to be clearly telegraphed and a trader with nerves of steel may take advantage of it .
You ( and everyone else ) need to pay tax on a quarterly basis . For people employed by companies , this is usually taken care of through withholding , so most people do n't really the notice the need to make this right quarter-by-quarter . Now that you 're self-employed , you 'll need to handle this yourself through the estimated tax payments every quarter . ( It 's possible , for example , to get a refund for being overpaid across the whole year and still have a penalty for being underpaid in a given quarter . ) Your employment earlier in the year does n't really impact this at all , except to the extent that ( a ) you might " max " out for the year , as mentioned below in the last paragraph , or ( b ) you might already have enough withheld so that you do n't actually need to make a payment because your prior overpayment covers ( in full or in part ) your liability for the current quarter . The self-employment tax is basically that you now need to pay both the " employer " half of social security and Medicare taxes in addition to the " employee " half that would have been withheld from your paycheck when employed by someone else . The current total rate ( both halves ) is 12.4 % for social security and 2.9 % for Medicare . Just add those to whatever you estimate your regular income tax to be based on your total self-employment income and make your payment . When you file your Form 1040 , you 'll file Schedule C and break this out into components ( income tax , SS , medicare ) , but for the estimated payment you only worry about the total . If you make over certain amounts of money , the SS stops and the Medicare goes to a different rate , so if you think that might apply to you get the details from IRS publication 15 .
At the end of the day , what maters is your return in your currency . Why ? Let 's say I own a fund of a country experiencing a 20 % inflation rate . So , the Elbonia index is up 30 % year on year , and that 's fine , but if I bring it back to my own currency , the exchange rate has accounted , to an extent , for the inflation , so it 's up about 10 % in my currency . And the Elbonians see 30 % , but a real increase of 10 % . In my personal situation , my ETFs are priced in $ US , so the exchange rate is embedded in the changing prices .
From an investor 's standpoint , if the value of crude oil increases , economies that are oil dependent become more favourable ( oil companies will be more profitable ) . Therefore , investors will find that country 's currency more attractive in the foreign exchange market .
Not all limit orders add liquidity , but all market orders remove liquidity presuming there is liquidity to remove . A liquidity providing order is one that is posted to the limit book . If an order , even a limit order , is filled before being posted to the limit book , it removes liquidity . Liquidity is measured by a balance and abundance of quantities posted on the limit book and the best spread between the lowest ask and the highest bid .
If you have your paycheck deposited to a single account , include the amount you 're saving in your normal income budget and then make sure your savings goal at the bottom is funded . ( The Savings Goal is a discrete feature in Mint . Use it . ) Record the transaction on either end as a transfer : it wo n't show up in any of your budget lines . If you have part of your paycheck deposited to a separate savings account , and Mint sees the transaction with your normal income , do the same basic setup ( except you wo n't see the transfer ) . If a portion of your paycheck is sent somewhere like a retirement plan or 401 ( k ) such that Mint does n't record a transaction for the income , exclude the amount from your income budgets and check the option on your goal that says it 's being funded independently ( it 'll appear greyed out on the bottom . )
if you bought gold in late ' 79 , it would have taken 30 years to break even . Of all this time it was two brief periods the returns were great , but long term , not so much . Look at the ETF GLD if you wish to buy gold , and avoid most of the buy/sell spread issues . Edit - I suggest looking at <URL> and decide whether long term gold actually makes sense for you as an investor . It 's sold with the same enthusiasm as snake oil was in the 1800 's , and the suggestion that it 's a storehouse of value seems nonsensical to me .
end question
start question
When an in-the-money stock option expires does the broker always execute it or does its value become worthless if the owner does n't execute it ?
It depends on the broker , each one 's rules may vary . Your broker should be able to answer this question for how they handle such a situation . The broker I used would execute and immediately sell the stock if the option was 25 cents in the money at expiration . If they simply executed and news broke over the weekend ( option expiration is always on Friday ) , the client could wake up Monday to a bad margin call , or worse .
It depends on the bank 's underwriting policies . Most banks will use the price paid for LTV calculations . Later on , you usually have an opportunity to cancel PMI if your home 's value reaches a certain percentage over the initial valuation .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
It 's definitely annoying , but it 's not necessarily false advertising . There is no rule or law that says they have to fix a pricing error at all , let alone within a certain period of time . Unfortunately they have no obligation to do business with you unless they take ( and keep ) your money . If they canceled the order and returned your money you have no binding agreement with them . On top of that , in the US ... ' misleading advertising ' usually refers to " Any advertising or promotion that misrepresents the nature , characteristics , qualities or geographic origin of goods , services or commercial activities " ( Lanham Act , 15 U.S.C.A. § 1125 ( a ) ) . The main criteria that they evaluate before taking legal action is whether or not someone has suffered harm or loss due to the reliance on the bad information . But you 're in Europe . The EU ideas behind misleading advertising tend to focus a lot more on comparing one product to someone else 's and making subjective claims or false promises . Pricing does come up , but still , you need to have an ability to prove that you suffered harm or a loss from the business ' actions . Even if you were able to prove that , to force the business to change its price catalog , you would need to go through legal proceedings , demonstrate the harm that you 've sustained , and then have a judge decide in your favor and order the supplier to comply . My guess is that it 's just not worth it for you , but you have n't specified if this is just an annoying shoe-shopping experience or if you are regularly experiencing bait-and-switch tactics from a supplier that is a crucial part of a business operation . If it 's the former , just like a physical shop reserves the right to kick you out if you 're not behaving , ( but usually does n't because they 'd like to keep you as a customer ) , an online shop can update its prices whenever they like . They can change their prices too , and cancel orders . If it 's the latter , then start putting together some documentation on how many times this has happened and how it has damaged your business . But before you get on the warpath I would recommend you look for another place to buy whatever you have in mind , or else try a pound of sugar in your approach to this supplier ... My own business experience has shown that can go a lot way in figuring out a mutually beneficial resolution . If you want to see a bit more ... <URL> <URL> that spells out what is explicitly not allowed from a business by way of advertising &amp; business practices .
TFSA is a misnomer . It is not a Savings Account , but a registered Savings Plan . For example , My TFSA is in mutual funds , so there is no interest as such . I make my earnings through share value growth , and dividends . If you want a guaranteed return , then you put it in GICs . You can put TFSA funds in a savings account ( which is essentially keeping it in cash ) , in which case the rate would fluctuate just like your regular savings account . However , I believe the best strategy is RRSPs should be stable and secure , and TFSA 's should be higher risk/higher reward , giving you the tax free benefit on the bulk of your earnings .
2.47 % is a really , really good rate , doubly so if it 's a fixed rate , and quadruply so if the interest is tax-deductible . That 's about as close to " free money " as you 're ever going to get . Heck , depending on what inflation does over the next few years , it might even be cheaper than free . So if you have the risk tolerance for it , it 's probably more effective to invest the money in the stock market than to accelerate your student loan payoff . You can even do better in the bond market ( my go-to intermediate-term corporate bond fund is yielding nearly 4 % right now . ) Just remember the old banker 's aphorism : Assets shrink . Liabilities never shrink . You can lose the money you 've invested in stocks or bonds , and you 'll still have to pay back the loan . And , when in doubt , you can usually assume you 're underestimating your risks . If you 're feeling up for it , I 'd say : make sure you have a good emergency fund outside of your investment money - something you could live on for six months or so and pay your bills while looking for a job , and sock the rest into something like the <URL> or a similar instrument ( Vanguard 's just my personal preference , since I like their style - and by style , I mean low fees - but definitely feel free to consider alternatives ) . You could also pad your retirement accounts and avoid taxes on any gains instead , but remember that it 's easier to put money into those than take it out , so be sure to double-check the state of your emergency fund .
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
There are two components of option valuation , the value that 's " in the money " and the " time value . " In the case of the $ 395 put , that option was already in the money and it will move less than the stock price by a bit as there will still be some time value there . $ 22.52 is intrinsic value ( the right word for ' in the money ' ) and the rest is time . The $ 365 strike is still out of the money , but as jldugger implied , the chance of it going through that strike is better as it 's $ 6.66 closer . Looking at the options chain gives you a better perspective on this . If Apple went up $ 20 Monday , and down $ 20 Tuesday , these prices would be higher as implied volatility would also go higher . Now , I 'd hardly call a drop of under 2 % " tanking " but on the otherhand , I 'd not call the 25 % jump in the option price skyrocketing . Options do this all the time . Curious what prompted the question , are you interested in trading options ? This stock in particular ?
When you buy a share of stock , you are almost always buying from someone who previously purchased that share and now wants to sell it . The money -- minus broker 's fee -- goes to that other investor , which may be a person , a company ( rarely the company that issued the stock , but that will occasionally be the case ) , an investment fund , the " market maker " for that stock ( websearch for definition of that term ) , or anyone else . They owned a small percentage of the company ; you bought it from them and gave them the money for it , just as you would buy anything else . You do n't know or care who you bought from ; they do n't know or care who they sold to ; the market just found a buyer and seller who could agree on the price . There are a very few exceptions to that . The company may repurchase some of its own shares and/or sell them again , depending on its own financial needs and obligations . For example , my own employer has to purchase its own shares periodically so it has enough on hand to sell to employees at a slight discount through the Employee Stock Ownership Program . But you generally do n't know that 's who you 're selling to ; it happens like any other transaction . And during the Initial Public Offering , if you 're lucky/privileged enough to get in on the first wave of purchases , you 're buying from the investment bank that 's managing this process ... though that 's an almost vanishingly rare case for " retail " investors like us ; we 're more likely to get the shares after someone has already pushed the price up a bit . But really , when you buy a share the money goes to whoever you bought it from , and that 's all you can know or need to know .
Some companies have banks and brokerages that are completely separate systems . So you could be actually running ACH transactions between two different banking entities . Bank of America used to have significant latency between BoA accounts , because they ran into delays integrating Fleet , BankSouth and BoA systems .
Writing off an asset means saying that you assume its value is zero or close to that . For bookkeeping purposes , you 're saying you do n't think you 'll ever get that money back , directly or indirectly . The company collapsed , the project fizzled out , the crop failed ... Writing down an asset means reducing your estimate of its value , but not to zero . You think there is at least some chance the investment will pay off , or at least will have enough assets / value to cover part of what you paid for it , and this number is your current best guess of what it 's actually worth so that can be reported accurately as part of your own net worth . Same idea , just different degrees .
Usually backtests for ( long-term ) strategies are evaluated on a end-of-day basis where you only consider close prices . If your strategy performs well in these backtests , hopes are that if you use a <URL> order your performance will not diverge too much from the backtest . The fact that it wo n't diverge much is important if you keep backtesting the strategy along with the real trading to see regime changes or similar . If you used end-of-day prices for the backtests but some arbitrary intraday market order , you 'd have some difficulties to explain deviations between the two . What it is : MOC orders can be submitted during the day , but they wo n't be executed until shortly before the market ( or more precise the current session ) closes .
It is in dollars , but US government can not " print " dollars . That 's prerogative of the Federal Reserve , which is formally an independent institution . They sometimes do something that amounts to " printing money " - heard about " quantitative easing " ? That 's it . But US Treasury ca n't do that . To fund whatever US Govt needs money for , it can get money in two ways : collect taxes or sell bonds ( i.e. take loans ) . Since most of the budgets recently run a deficit , that means US Govt collects less taxes than it spends . The difference is covered with loans , or bonds . So the debt is the sum of all government bonds held by individuals or foreign nations . As many of the lottery/casino winners have learned , the key to financial soundness is to have more income than spending . If you spend more than you got , it does n't matter how much you 've got - you 'll end up broke . US Government , for political reasons , routinely <URL> - because for politicians , spending gets them elected , while austerity gets them hated . Thus US debt is growing . Private people and foreign government gave those loans to US government . They do it because they consider it relatively safe investment and they get interest on it - just as you would do if you have savings account . Your savings account is a loan to a bank and earns you interest . US Government bond is a loan to the government and earns them interest . In fact , most of the bonds more like CD ( certificate of deposit ) than savings account , since they are given for a fixed amount of time - 5 , 10 , 20 , etc. years . There are shorter and longer term bonds , but in any case you can not demand payment before the term ( though you can sell the bond and recover the money , but somebody then needs to buy it from you ) . Since most of the people trust that US Government is not going under any time soon , since , as you noted , US is wealthy , they are content with investing their money and getting the interest . The size of the debt is not dangerous until there 's doubt that the debtor can repay - and the fear is that we approaching this threshold . It 's like somebody taking a mortgage - if you have good income , you can take a big mortgage , but the bank will ( or supposed to , at least :) related the mortgage size with your repayment ability . So far US repayment ability was found adequate by people , but if we abuse it , it may change and then US is up for the tough times - just as if someone stops paying the mortgage . In this case , both sides lose - the investors lose their investment or at least see it diminish and the US loses its credibility and thus ability to take more loans . Nobody wants it happen , so politicians from all countries try to work together to prevent it . We 'll see how good they manage to do it .
Your ETF will return the interest as dividends . If you hold the ETF on the day before the Ex-Dividend date , you will get the dividend . If you sell before that , you will not . Note that at least one other answer to this question is wrong . You do NOT need to hold on the Record date . There is usually 2 days ( or so ) between the ex-date and the record date , which corresponds to the number of days it takes for your trade to settle . See the rules as published by the SEC : <URL>
An Exchange-Traded Fund ( ETF ) is a special type of mutual fund that is traded on the stock exchange like a stock . To invest , you buy it through a stock broker , just as you would if you were buying an individual stock . When looking at a mutual fund based in the U.S. , the easiest way to tell whether or not it is an ETF is by looking at the ticker symbol . Traditional mutual funds have ticker symbols that end in " X " , and ETFs have ticker symbols that do not end in " X " . The <URL> , with ticker symbol JFAMX , is a traditional mutual fund , not an ETF . <URL> ; the <URL> , with ticker symbol JPEM , is an example . This ETF invests in similar stocks as JFAMX ; however , because it is an index-based fund instead of an actively managed fund , it has lower fees . If you are n't sure about the ticker symbol , the advertising/prospectus of any ETF should clearly state that it is an ETF . ( In the example of JPEM above , they put " ETF " right in the fund name . ) If you do n't see ETF mentioned , it is most likely a traditional mutual fund . Another way to tell is by looking at the " investment minimums " of the fund . <URL> of $ 1000 . ETFs , however , do not have an investment minimum listed ; because it is traded like a stock , you simply buy whole shares at whatever the current share price is . So if you look at the <URL> , you 'll see the fees listed , but not any investment minimums .
So " Operation Twist " is actually a pretty simple concept . Here 's the break down : The Fed sells short-term treasury bonds that it already holds on its books . Short-term treasury bonds refer to - bonds that mature in less than three years . Then : Uses that money to buy long term treasury bonds . Long-term treasury bonds refer to - bonds that mature in six to 30 years The reason : The fed buys these longer-term treasuries to lower longer-term interest rates and encourage more borrowing and spending . Diving deeper into how it works : So the Fed can easily determine short-term rates by using the <URL> this rate has a direct effect on the following : credit card rates adjustable-rate mortgages interest on savings accounts and CD 's Prime Rate ( home equity lines are based on this ) However this does not play a direct role in influencing the rate of long-term loans ( what you might pay on a 30-year fixed mortgage ) . Instead , long-term rates are determined by investors who buy and sell bonds in the bond market , which changes daily . These bond yields fluctuate depending on the health of the economy and inflation . However , the Fed funds rate does play an indirect role in these rates . So now that we know a little more about what effects what rate , why does lower long-term rates in treasuries influence my 30yr fixed mortgage ? Well when you are looking for a loan you are entering a market and competing against other people , by people I mean anyone looking for money ( e.g : my grandmother , companies , or the US government ) . The bank that lends you money has to decide weather the deal you are offering them is better then another deal on the market . If the risk of lending to one person is the same as the risk of lending to another , the bank will make whichever loan yields the higher interest rate . The U.S. government is considered a very safe borrower , so much so that government bonds are considered almost " risk free " , but because of the lower risk the rate of return is lower . So now the bank has to factor in this risk and make its decision weather to lend you money , or the government . So , if the government were to go to the market and buy its own long-term bonds it is adding demand in the market causing the price of the bond to rise in effect lowering the interest rate ( <URL> ) . So when you go back and ask for a loan it has to re-evaluate and decide " Is it worth giving this money to Joe McFreeBeer instead and collecting a higher yield ? " ( After all , Joe McFreeBeer is a nice guy ) . Here 's an example : Lets say the US has a rating of 10 out of 10 and its bonds pay a 2 % yield . Now lets say for each lower mark in rating the bank will lend at a minimum of 1 % higher and your rating is 8 of 10 . So if you go to market , the lowest rate you can get will be 4 % . Now lets say price rises on the US treasury and causes the rate to go down by 1 % . In this scenario you will now be able to get a loan for 3 % and someone with a rating of 7 of 10 would be able to get that 4 % loan . Here 's some more info and explinations : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
Here are a couple of articles that can help highlight the differences between a broker and an online investment service , which seems to be part of the question that you 're asking . Pay attention to the references at the end of this link . <URL> Investopedia also highlights some of the costs and benefits of each side , broke and online investment services . <URL> To directly answer your question , a broker may do anything from using a website to making a phone call to submitting some other form of documentation . It is unlikely that he is talking directly to someone on the trading floor , as the volume traded there is enormous .
Do I have to pay the stock investment income tax if I bought some stocks in 2016 , it made some profits but I did n't sell them at the end of 2016 ? You pay capital gains taxes only when you sell the stocks . When you sell the stock within a year you will pay the short term capital gains rate which is the same rate as your ordinary income . If the stock pays dividends , however , you will have to pay taxes in the year that the dividend was paid out to you . I bought some stocks in 2011 , sold them in 2012 and made some gains . Which year of do I pay the tax for the gains I made ? You would pay in 2012 , likely at the short term gain rate . I bought some stocks , sold them and made some gains , then use the money plus the gains to buy some other stocks before the end of the same year . Do I have to pay the tax for the gains I made in that year ? Yes . There is a specific exception called the " Wash Sale Rule " , but that would only apply if you lost money on the original sale and bought a substantially similar or same stock within 30 days . Do I get taxed more for the money I made from buying and selling stocks , even if the gains is only in hundreds ? More than what ? You pay taxes based on the profit you make from the investment . If you held it less than a year it is the same tax rate as your regular income . If you held it longer you pay a lower tax rate which is usually lower than your regular tax rate .
<URL> owns NASDAQ , a <URL> . It is a corporation , and is listed on the NASDAQ as <URL> . It makes money by : They charge each company to list their stock in their market . They charge for transaction that is taking place on their exchange server They may be offering other financial or other listing ( or IPO ) related services in a package deal with contracted third parties . <URL> NASDAQ also charges for market data services , found in the <URL> . Other information about the fees charged by NYSE and NASDAQ may be found in the Investopedia article <URL> .
end question
start question
Does using a personal credit card pierce the corporate veil for single member LLC ?
Can he use an existing credit card in his name for all his business expenses , or does that pierce the corporate veil ? That would be a question to a lawyer , since there 's no definitive answer but rather circumstantial . Generally it is safer to separate the finances completely than to try and guess what the court would rule if it comes to that . It is not hard to get a separate card for a LLC ( especially if it is a sole proprietorship ) . We are going to buy a house soon , so I do n't want any extra inquiries . I guess it depends on the bank and the type of card . My Citi business card does n't show up on my personal credit report .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
Yes , citibank allows you to create <URL> . I use it a few times a year when buy something from abroad . It 's actually not a one time but rather one number per merchant . Once you use it ( let 's say at amazon ) you can keep using it at amazon until it expires . You set the limit and the expiration months .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
Except in areas where there is a specific law against it , symbols or other marks may be used as a signature . There is no added " security " , however . I would think in most cases a symbol is much easier to duplicate than a handwritten name . In situations where the primary purpose of the signature is contractual , e.g. signing a will , marks are more likely to be allowed . You ca n't get out of a contract by claiming you did n't write your signature correctly . Where the primary purpose is verification of identity , such as signing your passport , your name is most often required .
In the long term , Loss or Theft of your credit card ( whether used or not ) will not affect your credit report or score . You are not liable for the charges made and your credit report is the report of your credit usage . Not the report of an identity theft 's use of credit . That being said , in the short term fraudulent charges and accounts could be opened which will be reported to your credit report ( and affect your credit score ) until you contact the Fraud Victim departments of the appropriate accounts and report the error . You would also contact the credit reporting bureaus and have them remove the offending accounts . Unfortunately , this is the victim part of identity theft and while it will have no long term affect , it may take a while to clear this up . I 've had identity theft problems crop up during a home loan refinancing . While the theft did not stop my refinance , it did cause me to take extra steps to convince them I did n't own a home in another state where the loan paperwork used my social security number . Someone else using my social security number for a mortgage and a credit card did not affect my credit score at all in the long term , but did cause me some minor headaches in the short term .
You 'll have to call your credit card issuer and ask them . Generally , credit cards do n't do bank transfers , since its not a bank account per se . But it may be in some cases that there 's an underlying bank account over which your credit card is managed , and then they might be able to do something like that . But we wo n't know , only your card issuer will .
A debit card takes the funds right from your account . There 's no ' credit ' issued along the way . The credit card facilitates a short term loan . If you are a pay-in-full customer , as I am , there 's a cost to lend the money , but we 're not paying it . It 's part of the fee charged to the merchant . Thus the higher transaction cost .
My understanding is this is considered a " rebate . " I view the cash reward as recovering part of the merchant fee charged for the use of my card . It 's not income because it 's my own money . Now , when I use the card for business items that I 'm reimbursed from my employer 100 % , in theory those rebates should be taxed , in practice , there 's no tracking . Note - I am in the US . My current card gives me 2 % back , up to $ 1500/yr . This goes into a 529 account ( A college savings account ) which as of mid-2015 passed $ 26,000 in value .
Perhaps the right question you should be asking yourself is why you need the higher limit . If you pay your credit card off in full every month , and you need a higher limit just to give you the extra flexibility and cash flow , then that seems sensible . If you want a bigger limit just for the sense of security of being able to draw that much credit , but do n't have plans to use it , that also seems like a legitimate rationale , however many credit cards seem to increase your limit automatically over time ( presuming you 've got good credit , etc. ) so it may not be worth worrying about too much . If you need additional credit limit to help pay for a one-time purchase or are simply wanting to improve your credit rating , you should really explore other debt options such as a line of credit at your bank , or a personal loan . Particularly these days you can get a much better interest rate than you can with credit cards . It 's ironic but true that to get a higher credit rating you need to incur debt . At least , in the US . What I 've been told by loan specialists is that showing responsible credit card use is okay but the best kind of debt for maximizing your credit rating is not credit cards but rather fixed loans like a car , house , college , or etc. that will have a specific monthly payment . Credit agencies apparently like to see evidence that you can use debt responsibly and demonstrate making payments reliably over a period of time . So , like join a local credit union and tell the teller you want to take out a small loan for purposes of building your credit rating , and buy a new computer , stereo , or whatever . Then make regular payments on that over a few years . Not only will this look better than credit card debt , it 'll also be at a lower rate . If you 've accumulated a large amount of credit card debt , and are wanting the higher limit in order to accumulate additional debt , that may be a red flag that your finances are out of balance . It is seductively easy to rack up an enormous debt , but it can be extraordinarily laborious to get it paid off . Two of my family members fell into this trap ( one while in college , the other while between jobs ) . At typical credit card interest rates of 15 % , 20 % , and even 25 % , if carrying debt month to month the debt is going to grow very quickly . If you 're in this case I 'd say count your blessings for having a low credit limit and get some help getting the debt in control . Finally , to actually answer your question , yes it 's been my experience most credit card companies are quite happy to increase your credit rate . Often you can call their customer service phone number and get it raised instantly . And I think they 'd send you a free noose as well . ;-)
Technically filing fee is probably a " <URL> " , but yes - its a kind of an expense . The yearly recurring fee is an expense .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
Unsecured debt , like credit card debt , will be paid by the estate . If not enough money exists in the estate ( including selling property/etc . ) to satisfy the debts , then the debt will be cancelled - it is not continued on to the heirs/etc . However , if you have a joint card ( with a spouse , parent , child , etc. ) , both holders of that card may be separately liable - meaning if one dies , the other will be liable for the debt if the first 's estate does n't pay it off . As far as if a charge posts after the death - likely depends on if it was fraudulently used . If the person owning the card made the purchase and timing just was off , then it 'll be just as if they paid beforehand . But , if the creditor can prove that someone else authorized the charge other than the decedent/cardholder , then that is a fraudulent act and could be met with criminal penalties as well as a civil lawsuit . See <URL> for more information .
First , forget about your credit rating . That will come back once you 're out of default and back on your feet . Keep in mind that the write-off is considered taxable income , so you 'll be owing the IRS and your State ( if its an income tax state ) money on that . I do n't think that you can ignore the second question . If you 're going to end up robbing Peter to pay Paul , I do n't see the point of trading an unsecured , dischargeable debt for another debt and a non-dischargeable IRS obligation . If you ca n't make payments on $ 17k , you ca n't make payments on $ 12k either . Note that when the IRS does n't get paid , they seize assets from your accounts and garnish your wages , and charge hefty fees for the privilege . If I were in your situation and had the ability to make payments , I would try to get written agreements from the unsecured creditors to do the following : Take you out of default status and get rid of penalty interest . ( ie . start paying 15 % instead of the 30 % or more that you are paying now ) Commit to making a specific payment . Freeze your credit limit to prevent the accrual of new fees . You have a very short window to make this deal with BoA . If they are ready to cut you a 30 % deal , the next step will be selling it to collections . If I were unable to get those types of settlements or make the payments , I 'd immediately start looking into bankruptcy and getting on with my life . A Chapter 13 bankruptcy will stop the accrual of interest and penalties , stop the collection calls and leave you with $ 0 debt in 36 months . If you go this route , try to keep one credit line that you 've had for a few years ( like a store credit card ) open ... this will make things easier later on .
The IRS looks at your marital status on December 31st to determine at what rate you will pay taxes . We can assume that for this year you will file Married . The withholding tables which are triggered by the numbers and terms you put on the W-4 are used to get your withholding close to the eventual total amount owed . Of course the more complex your situation -- deductions for mortgage , education , high state and local income tax -- the more adjustments you need to make . On the <URL> the IRS has the following instructions : If you are single and have more than one job or are married and you and your spouse both work and the combined earnings from all jobs exceed $ 50,000 ( $ 20,000 if married ) , see the Two-Earners/Multiple Jobs Worksheet on page 2 to avoid having too little tax withheld . Two earners or multiple jobs . If you have a working spouse or more than one job , figure the total number of allowances you are entitled to claim on all jobs using worksheets from only one Form W-4 . Your withholding usually will be most accurate when all allowances are claimed on the Form W-4 for the highest paying job and zero allowances are claimed on the others . See Pub . 505 for details . Remember that the W-4 and the withholding does n't change what you pay in taxes , it only changes the timing of the payments . In general a person that has a W-4 with the status of Single will have more withheld compared to a person making the same amount but with a status of Married . You should correct this via changing the W-4 . Note that not correcting it is n't a crime , but keeping it correct makes it easier to estimate correctly .
I ca n't address the psychology of trust involved in your question , but here are some common sense guidelines for dealing with your issue . Make sure you know who you are talking to . Call the company you need to speak to via a publicly available phone number . An email or something you got in a letter might be from a different source . If you use a website , you should be sure you are on the correct website . Keep careful records . Make good notes of each phone call and keep all emails and letters forever . Note the time , name and/or ID of the person you spoke to and numbers called in addition to keeping notes on what actions should be done . Keep your faxing transmission receipts and shipping tracking numbers too . If you are nervous , ask them why they want the info . The fraud department should be able to explain it to you . For example , they probably want your social because that is how your credit report is identified . If they are going to fix a credit report , they will need a social . It is doubtful they would have a good explanation why they need your mother 's maiden name . Ask for secure transmission , or confirm they have it . Postal mail is n't so secure , but I 'll go out on a limb and say most fax machines today are not really fax machines , but software that deals in PDFs . At some point you will have to realize you will have to transmit something . No method is perfect , but you can limit your exposure . Help them do their jobs . If you are ( understandably ) nervous , consider their motivations : corporate profit . BUT that could very well mean not running afoul of the law and ( with any luck ) treating customers the best way they know to earn business . If you stymy the fraud department , how can they help you ? If the ID theft was serious enough , document your issue for future law enforcement so you getting pulled over for speeding does n't result in you going to jail for whatever crime the other person did . Perhaps the fraud department you are dealing with can assist there . Finally , while you work with fraud departments to clear up your name and account , work on the other end to limit future damage . <URL> . See if you bank or credit card have monitoring . Use CreditKarma.com or a similar if you can not find a free service . ( Please do n't ever pay for credit monitoring . )
I am going to answer my own question . First of all , if your broker trades bonds , then you can find their historical rates there . Next , if you do n't have a broker that trades bonds go to FINRA 's bond center at <URL>
Split transactions are indispensable to anybody interested in accurately tracking their spending . If I go to the big-box pharmacy down the road to pick up a prescription and then also grab a loaf of bread and a jug of milk while there , then I 'd want to enter the transaction into my software as : one single transaction for the total amount , but some part of the amount categorized as " Healthcare - Prescriptions " , and some part of the amount categorized as " Groceries " . I desire entering precise data into the software so that I can rely on the reports it produces . Often , I do n't need an exact amount and estimated category totals would have been fine , e.g. to inform budgeting , or compare to a prior period . However , in other cases , the expenses I 'm tracking must be tracked accurately because I 'd be using the total to claim an income tax deduction ( or credit ) . Consider how Internet access might be commingled on the same bill with the home 's cable TV service . One is a reasonable business expense and deduction for the work-at-home web developer , whereas the other is a personal non-deductible expense . Were split transaction capability not available , the somewhat unattractive alternatives are : Ignore the category difference and , say , categorize the entire transaction as the larger or more important category . But , this deliberately introduces error in the tracked data , rendering it useless for cases where the category totals need to be accurate , or , Split the transaction manually . This does n't introduce error into the tracked data , but suffers another problem : It makes a lot of work . First , one would need to manually enter two ( or more ) top-level transactions instead of the single one with sub-amounts . Perhaps not that much more work than if a split were entered . Worse is when it comes time to reconcile : Now there are two ( or more ) transactions in the register , but the credit card statement has only one . Reconciling would require manually adding up those transactions from the register just to confirm the amount on the statement is correct . Major pain ! I 'd place split transaction capability near the top of the list of " must have " features for any finance management software .
One reason a lot of bond ETFs like Financials are because of how financial companies work . They usually have amazing cash flows due to deposits and fees and therefore have little risk associated with paying their debts in the short term . The rest of VCSH contains companies with low default risk and good cash flow generation as well : GE Verizon Apple Abbive This is of course the objective of VCSH : Seeks to provide current income with modest price fluctuation . Invests primarily in high-quality ( investment-grade ) corporate bonds . Maintains a dollar-weighted average maturity of 1 to 3 years Banks themselves issue a lot of bonds to raise cash to lend for other purposes . Banks are intermediary and help make funds liquid for investors and spenders . Hope that helped answer your question . If not comment below and I 'll try to adjust the answer to be more complete .
Years ago I hired someone part time ( not virtual however ) to help me with all sorts of things . Yes it helps free up some time . However particularly with finances , it does take a leap of faith . If you have high value accounts that this person will be dealing with you can always get them bonded . Getting an individual with a clean credit history and no criminal background bonded usually costs < $ 600 a year ( depending on $ risk exposure ) . I would start out small with tasks that do not directly put that person in control of your money . In my case I did n't have an official business , I worked a normal 9-5 job , but I owned several rental units , and an interest in a bar . My assistant also had a normal 9-5 job and worked 5-10 hours a week for me on various things . Small stuff at first like managing my calendar , reminding me when bills were due , shipping packages , even calling to set up a hair cut . At some point she moved to contacting tenants , meeting with contractors , showing apartments , etc. . . I paid her a fixed about each week plus expenses . I would pay her extra if I needed her more ( say showing an apartment on a Saturday , or meeting a plumber ) . She would handled all sorts of stuff for me , and I gave her the flexibility when needed to fit things in with her schedule . After about a month I did get her a credit card for expenses . Obviously a virtual assistant would not be able to do some of these things but I think you get the point . Eventually when the trust had been built up I put her on most of my accounts and gave her some fiduciary responsibilities as well . I 'm not sure that this level of trust would be possible to get to with a virtual assistant . However , with a virtual assistant you might be able to avoid one really big danger of hiring an assistant ... You see , several years later when I sold off my apartment buildings I no longer needed an assistant , so I married her . Now one good thing about that is I do n't have to pay her now . ;)
end question
start question
How does it work when the same ETF is listed on several stock exchanges ?
If I buy VUSA from one exchange , can I sell it in a different exchange , assuming my brokerage account lets me trade in both exchanges ? Or is it somehow tied to the exchange I bought it from ? This does n't happen for all securities and between all stock exchanges . So that is dependent on broker and country . I checked for VUSA with Selftrade . They categorically refused allowing me to trade in VUSA in different exchanges . I can only buy and sell in same currency only , albeit sell ( buy ) in the same exchange where I buy ( sell ) from . Should be the same behaviour for all brokers for us mere mortals , if you are a bank or a millionaire than that might be a different question . The VUSA you quote is quoted in GBP in LSE and in EUR in AEX , and the ETF has been created by an Irish entity and has an Irish ISIN . As Chris mentioned below , happens between US and Canadian exchanges , but not sure it happens across all exchanges . You can not deal in inter-listed stocks in LSE and NYSE . Since it 's the same asset , its value should not vary across exchanges once you compensate for exchange rates , right ? Yes , else it opens up itself for arbitrage ( profit without any risk ) which everybody wants . So even if any such instance occurs , either people will exploit it to make the arbitrage profit zero ( security reflects the equilibrium price ) or the profit from such transaction is so less , compared with the effort involved , that people will tend to ignore it . Anyways arbitrage profit is very difficult to garner nowadays , considering the super computers at work in the market who exploit these discrepancies , the moment they see them and bring the security right to the zero arbitrage profit point . If there 's no currency risk because of # 2 , what other factors should I consider when choosing an exchange to trade in ? Liquidity ? Something else ? Time difference , by the time you wake up to trade in Japan , the Japanese markets would have closed . Tax implications across multiple continents . Law of the land , providing protection to investors . Finding a broker dealing in markets you want to explore or dealing with multiple brokers . Regulatory headaches .
That means if you contribute $ 1000 , and that is equal to 5 % of your salary ( salary of $ 20k ) : It 's basically the same as taxes ; you can think of it as the marginal rate . So , for the " 40 % on the next 2 % " , that means that " first take the amount equal to 2 % of your salary , and match that 100 % . Then take the amount left and match at 40 % , up to the amount which is another 2 % of your ( original ) salary . " Whichever contribution bracket you 're in , the next dollar you contribute is at that matching percentage , and when you ' finish ' a bracket you are at a known total match amount - ie , you can pre-calculate all of those levels , just like the IRS does . So , you could reword this way : These are calculated by taking the ' cap ' of each range , and then adding that to the portion of the marginal range . You can think of it as buckets : while you 're filling one bucket , you get that bucket 's match . When that bucket 's full , the portion of match you got for that bucket is fixed at that amount , and you move to the next bucket and start matching at that rate for the money that 's going into that bucket . If it helps , here is a chart of your contribution versus match . The colors denote the buckets and thus the marginal rates , but are not otherwise meaningful . At any point in the line you can see your contribution ( on the bottom , x-axis ) and the corresponding company match ( on the left , y-axis ) . You can see in the red section , for example , that the slope changes - after 2 % your company matches only 0.4 times the value of your contribution from 2.01 % to 4 % of your original salary . If you 're contributing in a green section , then your company match is 100 % of what you contribute . If you 're in the red section , then your company match is 2 % of your salary , plus 40 % of your contribution over 2 % of your salary ; so your marginal rate is 40 % . This means that the next dollar you contribute will earn $ 0.40 from your company match . In the blue section , you earn 0.25 for every dollar you contribute , above and beyond 2.8 % of your salary .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
You ask if Tesla being a car company should feel a pressure to split their stock because their share price is much higher than the other car companies . But is Tesla a car company ? It was founded by Elon Musk who founded PayPal and SpaceX . He sees him self as the next generation of entrepreneurs that came after Jobs and Gates . So he compares Tesla ( $ 142 ) companies to Google ( $ 856 ) , Amazon ( $ 284 ) and eBay ( $ 52 ) . But even if you see Tesla as a car company , Musk sees it more like Audi ( $ 828 ) or BMW ( $ 100 ) then he does Ford ( $ 16.30 ) just because the base price of their models ( $ 80,000 + ) is much greater than Ford or GM . The theory is that keeping the share price in a lower range helps investors . But since <URL> is that really a concern ? Therefore most small investors get the company though a mutual fund .
Here are a couple of articles that can help highlight the differences between a broker and an online investment service , which seems to be part of the question that you 're asking . Pay attention to the references at the end of this link . <URL> Investopedia also highlights some of the costs and benefits of each side , broke and online investment services . <URL> To directly answer your question , a broker may do anything from using a website to making a phone call to submitting some other form of documentation . It is unlikely that he is talking directly to someone on the trading floor , as the volume traded there is enormous .
Foreigner can use <URL> in lieu of SSN to open US bank accounts . If there 's no local broker at all in your own country that allows trading in the US ( which I seriously doubt ... ) , you 'll have to go through the tedious and problematic procedure to issue an ITIN , or open a trading account in person next time you visit the US ( and then it will be very limited with what you can do if you do n't have a tax ID ) .
In general , a warrant is a security issued by a company allowing the holder to purchase a certain number of a particular class of shares at a certain price for a particular period of time . They differ from exchange traded options ( i.e. calls and puts ) in that they are issued by the company that issued the underlying shares that they allow you to purchase whereas calls and puts are generally written by other investors . The other big difference between options and warrants is that options are standardized . Any call or put you buy on a particular exchange has basically the same set of rules governing use . By contrast , a warrant may have all kinds of stipulations that must occur before you can execute , such as price events ( e.g. only if the stock hits a certain price ) or business events ( e.g. only if the company elects to defer payment on a bond issued at the same time as the warrant ) . Warrants are generally a bad choice for small and inexperienced investors since each warrant issue is different and you often need a lawyer or other qualified professional to fully understand all to possible outcomes .
Start the process by contacting the company that services the mortgage . They can answer all your questions . Does the process basically just involve sending in money or are there other documents that must be exchanged ? They should have a form that needs to be submitted . You will want to get from them the most up-to-date payoff amount X days from now . The amount changes each day . They will be sending you a document signifying that the debt has been met . They will also be filing paperwork with the county/city/township releasing the property from the mortgage obligation . Is the payoff usually paid with a regular check or with a cashier 's check , bank wire , etc. ? Because all my mortgage payoffs have either been or refinancing or I have sold the property , the balance due was significant and the lender required a cashiers check . Contact them to ask . If it only a few thousand left they might take a regular check . I see that a payoff amount is associated with a particular date , presumably because of interest calculations . Does this imply that checks are usually send by overnight delivery in order for them to arrive exactly on the designated date , and what happens if they arrive late ? Sending the checks via overnight delivery speeds up the process , and cuts down on the uncertainty of the delivery date . Ask for a return receipt so that you have proof of the date it was received . Overpay by a couple of days . They will refund the overage . Let 's say my mortgage balance is $ 4500 , and my monthly payment is usually $ 1000 . What would happen if I just continued to pay monthly bills instead of requesting a final payoff ? Would the mortgage company eventually send me a final bill that would work like a final payoff ? If you let the mortgage run its course , you will still get a document back from them ; they will still file the documents with the local government ; and they will refund any overage . If you look at the coupon book , or the paperwork they gave you at settlement the last payment is usually a different amount due to rounding of the monthly payments . Of course if you have been making extra payments or larger than required payments the numbers on the original coupon book are moot so contact the company for the last payment amount .
I 'm assuming you mean the H&amp;R Block ' tax centers ' they typically set up in a mall . I used their services once . My experience may not match yours and may not be typical . Essentially , the H&amp;R Block " tax expert " is someone trained to use the H&amp;R Block tax software . This is similar to TurboTax and other such software . You are paying this person to follow prompts on the computer and input the answers you provide , just like TurboTax and similar software works . My " tax expert " was unable to answer basic tax questions and could not even operate her calculator properly . In every way , the experience was worse than just using TurboTax on my own computer . Now , this service may make sense for you if , for example , you can not operate a computer or can not see well enough to read the information on your tax documents . You may also prefer the H&amp;R Block tax software over all other competing products , though in this case , you may wish to just use the software online or download it , rather than paying a " tax expert " to run it on your behalf . It 's also certainly the case that many " tax experts " are actually fully-fledged accountants who are just picking up some work on the side . If your taxes are significantly more complicated , you would do well to hire an accountant who specialises in tax returns . There will almost certainly be very many in your community . This will certainly cost more than this year 's tax software , but may well be a good option for you .
My husband had this come up when he went to Kuwait from August2006 - August 2007 . Its all based on the percentage of the time . So say the first 90k is taxfree . If you were there 3 months of that tax year then 25 % of 90,000 is your " tax-free " income and the rest of the money earned in those 3 months is taxed at the appropriate tax bracket rate . Then the following year you take the other 75 % ( 67,500 ) free and tax the rest . You will have to pay your estimated taxes and file an extension for the first year so that you can prove the 330/365 days to the IRS . Get a really good accountant or you will still be paying taxes and penalties years later like we are .
Do I have to pay the stock investment income tax if I bought some stocks in 2016 , it made some profits but I did n't sell them at the end of 2016 ? You pay capital gains taxes only when you sell the stocks . When you sell the stock within a year you will pay the short term capital gains rate which is the same rate as your ordinary income . If the stock pays dividends , however , you will have to pay taxes in the year that the dividend was paid out to you . I bought some stocks in 2011 , sold them in 2012 and made some gains . Which year of do I pay the tax for the gains I made ? You would pay in 2012 , likely at the short term gain rate . I bought some stocks , sold them and made some gains , then use the money plus the gains to buy some other stocks before the end of the same year . Do I have to pay the tax for the gains I made in that year ? Yes . There is a specific exception called the " Wash Sale Rule " , but that would only apply if you lost money on the original sale and bought a substantially similar or same stock within 30 days . Do I get taxed more for the money I made from buying and selling stocks , even if the gains is only in hundreds ? More than what ? You pay taxes based on the profit you make from the investment . If you held it less than a year it is the same tax rate as your regular income . If you held it longer you pay a lower tax rate which is usually lower than your regular tax rate .
<URL> owns NASDAQ , a <URL> . It is a corporation , and is listed on the NASDAQ as <URL> . It makes money by : They charge each company to list their stock in their market . They charge for transaction that is taking place on their exchange server They may be offering other financial or other listing ( or IPO ) related services in a package deal with contracted third parties . <URL> NASDAQ also charges for market data services , found in the <URL> . Other information about the fees charged by NYSE and NASDAQ may be found in the Investopedia article <URL> .
What does this mean ? This fund is not an investment company regulated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and is not afforded its protections . That the fund is n't a traditional open-end mutual fund , unit investment trust or closed-end fund . The <URL> as noted on Investopedia was created after the crash of 1929 to regulate these instruments . What happens if ProShare decided to delist this ETF ? I 'd presume shareholders would get the proceeds from the liquidation of the fund , though delisting is n't likely though reverse splits would be my caution as if the price gets low enough some exchanges may request companies do reverse splits that can annoy some people . Anything else you think is important to know to trade this ETF ? Yes , understand what strategy you have around trading this ETF in terms of getting in and out as it could be quite a volatile holding looking at its graph .
If you built the deck yourself , you will need to retain copies of your materials receipts ( note that tools purchased can not be claimed ) . If you hired a contractor to do the work , the contractor must be registered for the GST and you must retain the invoice . All work must have been completed between January 27 , 2009 and February 1st , 2010 . The CRA will include a new schedule in your 2009 income tax package that will help you claim the tax credit . The credit is 15 % of the eligible expenses over $ 1,000 but less than $ 10,000 . For example , if you spent $ 10,000 , your credit would be ( $ 10,000 - $ 1,000 ) x 15 % or $ 1,350 . The HRTC is a non-refundable tax credit , which is used to reduce your taxes payable . It is not claimed against income . For example , if you had taxes payable for $ 12,000 for 2009 and had eligible HRTC expenses of $ 10,000 , your tax bill would be reduced by $ 1,350 to $ 10,650 . The Canada Revenue Agency has some excellent information on their website at the following URL <URL>
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
The relevant Canada Revenue Agency web site is <URL> Withdrawing in the same year does not generate additional room . <URL> suggest it is best to avoid withdrawing if you expect you would replenish in the same year . Likewise , you can transfer among your various accounts without penalty . If you change financial institutions , for example , there is no double reporting as you seem to be concerned about if it is tracked as a TFSA Transfer ( similar to an RRSP transfer ) from one registered account to another . The paperwork is not as if it was a deposit but merely a transfer .
The agent listed on the sign works for the home owner . They have signed an agreement with them to get the best deal they can . ( Best can be measured by money , speed , hassle ) . If you use the same agent , they probably will have to give you a dual agent form , which advises you of that fact , and you recognize they work for two parties with different goals . Therefore get your own agent . They will show you houses that you are interested in and can afford . They will keep your interests in mind , they can help you determine the amount your should offer , and the contingencies you should put on the deal . Remember the seller wants the most money and no contingencies . If there is one agent , they get the full commission ( lets assume 6 % ) . If each party has their own agent , they will each get 3 % . The commission is paid for from the sellers funds . ( Yes I know the commission is rolled into the price/mortgage ) . Having your own agent will not increase the buyers costs . There are times when a sellers agent tries to keep the listing for themselves , so they get the full commission . They are hurting the seller when they do this . They are limiting the possible buyers , they are telling anybody with an agent to stay away .
To clarify . APY will always be an annual number . To calculate your APY you use the formulas below with your APR , the applicable compounding frequency , and duration of an entire year . The more frequent the compounding occurs the greater your yield relative to your rate . When you have a maturity period less than a year , the APY is still calculated based on holding for a full year . Assuming a 0.4 % APR , you will receive 0.4 % for the duration of the CD . Generally bank CDs are compounded daily which will help out a bit . You can roughly calculate your return by ( assuming a $ 1,000 deposit and a 3 month duration ) : On such a short time frame the effects of compounding will be negligible . And the published APY can be largely ignored as you will not be holding the CD for a year , unless you buy another three month CD at the same rate after maturity .
Negative interest rates already exist . Like the after tax real interest rate on US T-bills has been negative for 60 years ( Refer to <URL> ) . And in periods of price inflation , of course , the monetary base is under a real negative interest rate , as well as assets with " too low " nominal interest rates . Many economists like Paul Krugman , Greg Mankiw and Willem Buiter recently mentioned that the equlibrium interest rate also currently is negative and even a nominal 0 % is not sensible at all . E.g. here : <URL> Further , even if the the real interest rate is negative , it still can be too high ! Too high meaning that it could still be above the equilibrium interest rate if that is even deeper negative . How the equilibrium interest rate can be negative is easy to imagine : Credit is basically intertemporal trade . And the interest rate is the price for intertemporal trade . If more people want to save money for their retirement then people want ( and can ! ) borrow for the current interest rate , then the interest rate has to drop . And if even at 0 % more people want to save money , the interest rate has to fall below 0 % to reach equilibrium . The limit is the interest rate on the monetary base , which can not go below nominally 0 % . Actually , only cash is a problem , as you could not force anyone to receive the negative interest ( which means : pay for keeping cash ) . As long as the only way is price inflation , it unfortunately always means more indeptness . If no one else can , the governments have to . Thats always the problem with minimum price guarantees : Either the governments have to force someone to pay the lifted price or the government has to pay it themselves . All this is taught to economic students in the first two years . Just that almost no one applies such simple market mechanisms to money . Instead most economists think that money is just a measure . Thanks to Krugman , Mankiw and Buiter and some others to start breaking this error .
The prices are not correlated by the exchanges , but there a host of arbitragers out there who will immediately pounce if the prices drift out of line by the slightest fraction , buying on the cheaper exchange while simultaneously selling on the more expensive exchange , and in practice this keeps the prices the same .
end question
start question
How can this stock have an intra-day range of more than 90 % on 24Aug2015 ?
EDIT : It was <URL> August 24 , 2015 2:12 PM EDT Pursuant to <URL> NASDAQ , on <URL> , in conjunction with BATS , and FINRA has determined to cancel all trades in security Blackrock Capital Investment . ( Nasdaq : BKCC ) at or below $ 5.86 that were executed in NASDAQ between 09:38:00 and 09:46:00 ET . This decision can not be appealed . NASDAQ will be canceling trades on the participants behalf . A person on <URL> claimed that he was the buyer . He used <URL> , a $ 0 commission broker and start-up . The canceled trades are reflected on CTA/UTP and the current charts will differ from the one posted below . It is an undesired effect of the 5-minute Trading Halt . It is not " within 1 hour of opening , BKCC traded between $ 0.97 and $ 9.5 " . Those trades only occurred for a few seconds on two occasions . One possible reason is that when the trading halt ended , there was a lot of Market Order to sell accumulated . Refer to the following chart , where each candle represents a 10 second period . As you can see , the low prices did not " sustain " for hours . <URL> And the published halts . <URL>
You have n't mentioned how much debt your example company has . Rarely does a company not carry any kind of debt ( credit facilities , outstanding bonds or debentures , accounts payable , etc. ) Might it owe , for instance , $ 1B in outstanding loans or bonds ? Looking at debt too is critically important if you want to conduct the kind of analysis you 're talking about . Consider that the fundamental <URL> says : or , But in your example you 're assuming the assets and equity ought to be equal , discounting the possibility of debt . Debt changes everything . You need to look at the value of the net assets of the company ( i.e. subtracting the debt ) , not just the value of its assets alone . Shareholders are residual claimants on the assets of the company , i.e. after all debt claims have been satisfied . This means the government ( taxes owed ) , the bank ( loans to repay ) , and bondholders are due their payback before determining what is leftover for the shareholders .
I agree with the answer by @Michael that this number does n't exist . It 's hard to see what use it would have and it would be difficult to track . I 'm writing a separate answer because I also disagree with the premise of your question : Individual shares of stock have never to my knowledge had such a number . Your comment about numbers on stock certificates identifies the certificate document , which will generally represent multiple shares of stock . That number no more identifies a single share of stock than the serial number on a $ 10 bill identifies any one of the ten dollars it represents . Even at the " collective " unit of $ 10 , when the bill is eventually replaced with a new one , the new bill has a new number . No continuity .
The stock should fall by approximately the amount of the dividend as that is what is paid out . If you have a stock trading at $ 10/share and it pays a $ 1/share dividend , the price should drop to $ 9 as what was trading before the dividend was paid would be both the dividend and the stock itself . If the person bought just for the dividend then it would likely be neutral as there is n't anything extra to be gained . Consider if this was n't the case . Would n't one be able to buy a stock a few days before the dividend and sell just after for a nice profit ? That does n't make sense and is the reason for the drop in price . Similarly , if a stock has a split or spin-off there may be changes in the price to reflect that adjustment in value of the company . If I give you 2 nickels for a dime , the overall value is still 10 cents though this would be 2 coins instead of one . Some charts may show a " Dividend adjusted " price to factor out these transactions so be careful of what prices are quoted .
I would say yes : it 's worth building additional retirement savings on top of a <URL> ( plans that pay set annual income ) . Here are a couple of reasons : Do n't put all your eggs in one basket . While <URL> is probably in good shape , things can and do happen to pension plans . While there is a provincial system in place to guarantee some of your pension income ( $ 1000/mo ) if your plan goes bust , your benefits are not 100 % guaranteed . Defined benefit pension plans are designed to provide recurring annual income , like your paycheck when you are employed . You ca n't " take more out " from your defined benefit pension plan when an emergency comes up . Whereas , your RRSP ( and eventually RRIF , in retirement ) are accounts from which you can take out extra in any given year , if necessary . That being said , Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) wo n't let you save as much in your RRSP as other people who do n't have pension plans : Normally , individuals in Canada are entitled to save 18 % of their earned income , up to a limit ( $ 21000 in 2009 ) in an RRSP each year . However , to level the playing field , individuals who are in a pension plan get a " Pension Adjustment " ( PA ) number on their T4 which reduces their available RRSP contribution room . Otherwise , they 'd be able to tax-shelter more income for retirement than others . So , I would suggest if you have the RRSP room , consider using it . I 'd also suggest you look at a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , especially if you do n't have much RRSP room due to the pension adjustment . If you 're not sure whether to use an RRSP or a TFSA , <URL> .
<URL> is an excellent article on the 7-Day yield and how to calculate the interest you would receive . So if you invested $ 1000 for 30 days : ( 0.0001 * $ 1000 ) / 365 ~ = $ 0.000274 per day . Multiply by 30 days to yield $ 0.008 in interest .
Your ETF will return the interest as dividends . If you hold the ETF on the day before the Ex-Dividend date , you will get the dividend . If you sell before that , you will not . Note that at least one other answer to this question is wrong . You do NOT need to hold on the Record date . There is usually 2 days ( or so ) between the ex-date and the record date , which corresponds to the number of days it takes for your trade to settle . See the rules as published by the SEC : <URL>
Digital content is a different beast than physical content , because usually you just buy a license to access the content . You may download it , but you 're not allowed to send it to someone else . Some eBook authors will offer a money-back guarantee after , say , 30 days , or even longer . If the content is good , it 's usually a good idea to do this . The marketing term for this is risk reversal and it takes down the barrier of " what if I do n't like this " and encourages you to buy it to look at it . You should factor this in before you buy a digital product . Having said that , if you used a Visa card , and if the product truly was awful and misleading , you may be able to <URL> .
I 'm going to take the " Expense Piechart " report in GnuCash 2.4.8 as my primary example ; other reports may have slightly different options . Open the report you want to use . Click " Edit report options " in the toolbar or Edit menu . In the Accounts tab , the " Show Accounts until level : " option cuts off subaccounts , and you may wish to increase it . For example , I keep expense accounts like " Expenses : Entertainment : Games " , and if I want to see that specific account I have to set this option to 3 , instead of the default 2 . In the Display tab , the " Maximum Slices " ( " Maximum Bars " for bar charts ) controls how many accounts are shown before the rest are grouped as an " Other " entry . If you want to keep this configuration for future use , you can either leave the report tab open indefinitely , or save a custom report : In the General tab of the report options , give the report a new name . This is necessary . Click the Save ( floppy disk ) icon in the toolbar .
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
Appreciation of a Capital Asset is a <URL> . In the United States , Capital Gains get favorable tax treatment after being held for 12 months . From the <URL> : Capital gains and losses are classified as long-term or short-term , depending on how long you hold the property before you sell it . If you hold it more than one year , your capital gain or loss is long-term . If you hold it one year or less , your capital gain or loss is short-term . The tax rates that apply to net capital gain are generally lower than the tax rates that apply to other income . For 2009 , the maximum capital gains rate for most people is15 % . For lower-income individuals , the rate may be 0 % on some or all of the net capital gain . Special types of net capital gain can be taxed at 25 % or 28 % . The IRS defines a Capital Asset as " most property you own " with a list of exclusions found in <URL> . None of the exclusions listed relate to Bond ETFs .
If the IRS changes your return in any way ( including math errors ) - they send a letter explaining the change and the reasons for it . You should read that letter , it will answer your question ( <URL> ) . If you did n't receive it - you can call them and ask to resend it ( they 're unlikely to answer over the phone , but you can try asking ) . I 'm confused by your using the word " estimate " . Your tax return is not supposed to be estimate , it supposed to be precise . Why are you considering your tax return " estimate " ? If your filed tax return shows refund of $ X and you received $ X + $ 180 - then as I said , a letter of explanation from the IRS is due . If you do n't know what the refund amount on your return is and you 're trying to " estimate " it now - you better get a copy of that return .
No , that 's the idea behind the 60 day rule . The 60 days is from the day of withdrawal to day of deposit . I 'd suggest you go 59 , and not risk some odd personal situation cause you to miss the date . Yes , a big yes , it can not go into the account it came from . Then both accounts ca n't be touched for a year . Yes . I am away , and at the moment ca n't tell you the exact form . I 'd invite one of my collegues to edit this line . No , this is unrelated . As I commented , there 's confusion on withholding . The 20 % pertains to 401 ( k ) accounts , not IRAs .
Consult a qualified tax professional . I trust that 's what the " silicon valley types " did ... at least those who still have most of their money left . When you speak to a professional , I would expect a couple of things you 'd be made aware of about such a situation in Canada are : You might qualify for a lifetime capital gains exemption . If you are selling shares in a Canadian Controlled Private Corporation ( CCPC ) , then your first $ 750K of gains may be tax free . Tax free . Did you know about the <URL> ? Read up . Conditions apply . Generally , capital gains income in Canada is n't taxed at the regular income tax rate . Rather , <URL> . That is , the tax on the part over the exemption amount ( should you qualify ) would at worst be only half what you assumed . You do n't know what you do n't know , so before you jump to any conclusions about how much you are likely to owe or else start making plans to leave the country , please consult a professional ( or three ) . Do this soon , before the transaction completes , because sometimes you need some time to structure things in the best way .
Individuals most definitely can have NOL . This is covered in the <URL> . What is the difference between NOL and capital loss ? NOL is Net Operating Loss . I.e. : a situation where your ( allowable ) expenses and deductions exceed your gross income . Basically it means that you have negative income for that year , for tax purposes . Capital loss occurs when the total amount of your capital gains reported on Schedule D is negative . What are their relations then ? Not all expenses and deductions that you usually put on your tax return are allowed for NOL calculation . For example , capital loss is not allowed . I.e. : if you earned $ 2000 and you lost in stocks $ 3000 - you do not get a $ 1K NOL . Capital losses are excluded from NOL calculation and in this scenario you still have non-negative income for NOL purposes even though it is offset in full by capital loss deduction and your " taxable income " line is negative . The $ 1K that was not allowed - gets carried forward to the next year using the <URL> . You calculate your NOL using <URL> . You can use the form 1045 to apply the NOL to prior 2 years , or you can elect to apply it only to future years ( up to 20 years ) . In what cases , capital loss can be NOL ? Never .
Put a freeze on your credit Check your credit report from one bureau once every 4 months via annualcreditreport.com . The service is free and you can get only one report from a bureau each year , hence the spacing out Check your credit regularly from another free service CreditKarma.com A way to <URL> All these are online services and can be checked from outside the country . ( Do n't check them from a public computer though ! )
No , a loss on the sale of a primary residence is not tax deductible ( just as the gains are not taxable , up to a limit ) See here - <URL> Specifically , on page 5 : Loss on sale . If the amount realized is less than the adjusted basis , the difference is a loss . A loss on the sale of your main home can not be deducted .
I worked for an insurance company for a long time in the United States , but we handled foreign risk as well . In short , there 's nothing generally illegal about doing it , although I 'd add that there are many types of insurance and here in the United States insurance is regulated by states . So it 's really not an overstatement to say that there are thousands of different insurance laws just in our country alone ( 50 states * N number of policy types ) . From an insurance company point of view : Just because you have two brokerages does n't mean you are n't backed by the same insurance company . Rarely are you actually dealing with your " insurance company " , generally you 're just dealing with a broker . Tom and Frank might be two different brokers , but the policies you buy from them are both placed with the same insurance company ( ie : the building with the money that pays the claims ) . As such , the insurance company requires it to be written into the policies that there is no other coverage . Often if a policy allows for multiple coverage , it will require that the other policy ( ies ) pay first . Insurance is often structured into tiers and there are <URL> features as well , complicating exactly where your " insurance " is getting paid from . So even if you have two different brokers with two different insurance companies , the reinsurance for both of those might trace back to the same pile of money . Insurance is based on a rather complicated set of actuarial tables ( from insurance companies , not brokers ) and the math breaks down with multiple policies and multiple payouts . From a consumer standpoint , it makes sense to have multiple policies . But fundamentally insurance is there to pay a claim , not to allow you to profit handsomely from a claim . A $ 20K vehicle replacement fee should provide you with $ 20K , not $ 40K ( two policies ) . From a regulatory standpoint , I think you can see the opportunity for fraud as well if one was allowed to get 2 or 50 policies .
BlackJack 's answer is technically correct : government credit ratings are independent of corporate credit ratings . The rating should reflect the borrower 's ability to repay its obligations . One reason the book you read may have stated that corporate credit ratings can not be better than the government 's credit rating is that the government , unlike the corporation , can steal ( or in government parlance " tax " ) from anywhere or anyone . So if a government finds itself in financial difficulty it could simply take the cash from corporations or people with high credit ratings by a variety of methods : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or simply <URL> . This increases the risk of doing business in a country with an over-extended government . Over extended governments do not die gracefully . They only die when there is nothing left to steal .
EDIT : It was <URL> August 24 , 2015 2:12 PM EDT Pursuant to <URL> NASDAQ , on <URL> , in conjunction with BATS , and FINRA has determined to cancel all trades in security Blackrock Capital Investment . ( Nasdaq : BKCC ) at or below $ 5.86 that were executed in NASDAQ between 09:38:00 and 09:46:00 ET . This decision can not be appealed . NASDAQ will be canceling trades on the participants behalf . A person on <URL> claimed that he was the buyer . He used <URL> , a $ 0 commission broker and start-up . The canceled trades are reflected on CTA/UTP and the current charts will differ from the one posted below . It is an undesired effect of the 5-minute Trading Halt . It is not " within 1 hour of opening , BKCC traded between $ 0.97 and $ 9.5 " . Those trades only occurred for a few seconds on two occasions . One possible reason is that when the trading halt ended , there was a lot of Market Order to sell accumulated . Refer to the following chart , where each candle represents a 10 second period . As you can see , the low prices did not " sustain " for hours . <URL> And the published halts . <URL>
end question
start question
What happens to an Earnest Money Deposit if underwriting falls through ?
Your Purchase and Sale agreement should have a financing contingency . If it does n't , your money may be at risk , and the agent did you no favor . Edit - I answered when away from computer . This is a snapshot of the standard clause from the Greater Boston Real Estate Board . Each state has its own standard documents . <URL> The normal process is to have some level of prequalification , showing a high probability of final approval , make offer , then after it 's accepted , this form is part of the purchase and sale process .
There 's a couple of nuances to bear in mind . If your employer is subject to COBRA requirements , as Ben Miller mentions , you 'll be able to continue your coverage via COBRA as long as there was no gross misconduct . Continuation coverage must be continuous , you ca n't have a break in coverage . ( e.g. if you lose coverage June 30 , you can not elect to have COBRA begin 8/1 ) You 'll pay the full gross premium , not just your contribution , plus an up to 2 % administrative fee . ( It would n't surprise me if your monthly COBRA premium is several hundred dollars ) If your current employer offers multiple medical plan options you will only be offered continuation under your currently elected plan option . You can continue your coverage via COBRA even if you are eligible for a new employer 's plan . But , if you waive your new employer 's coverage when it 's offered to you , you will not be able to enroll in your new employer 's plan until the next open enrollment or your next qualifying event . You have 63 days from your coverage loss date or your date of COBRA notification , whichever is later , to actually elect COBRA continuation . It 's pretty common to wait until you actually need the coverage to make the election . Though do n't wait until too close to the deadline . Understand the COBRA offering before you make your decision . The price is likely to carry some sticker shock . If possible , understand your new employer 's plan before making your decision . It may actually be advantageous to you to walk away from the deductible you 've paid to take advantage of your new employer 's plan . If you 're on an HDHP with an HSA account , it may also be in your best interest to load up that HSA account with tax-free money while you 're still enrolled in the HDHP . You can spend HSA funds on qualified expenses but you can only contribute to it while you 're enrolled in a qualified HDHP . Depending on your age it may even be financially advantageous to buy yourself a $ 0 deductible gold or platinum individual plan as you transition from one employer to the next .
Yes , DB pensions are " insured " by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ) , a Federal Government Corporation created under ERISA ( Employee Retirement Income Security Act ) back in the '70s . It 's purpose is to provide protection to DB pension plan participants in the event of a sponsor 's bankruptcy , insolvency , or inability to fully fund a DB plan . In a sense the PBGC is analogous to the FDIC and similar governmental corporations . There are limitations as to what is protected and I found out that there are limitations to the protection for those in the airline industry , as some pilots that I know received reduced pensions from PBGC even though they had higher vested benefits . Perhaps other industries are affected as well . If you want to find out more about the PBGC and what it covers you can go to <URL>
The fee you were charged to get the money order is gone . You agreed to that fee when you purchased the Money order . It is now a check that you can use how ever you wish . If you have already added a name to the pay to line it can be changed but different agencies have different rules for what they will accept . Take the money order to your bank explain the situation and tell them you want to put the money in your account , or cash it .
If you are contributing weekly to your Traditional IRA via auto-deposit , each contribution would be $ 5500/52 which is a little over $ 100 , right ? Or are you contributing more , completely forgetting that the total IRA contribution for 2015 is $ 5500 ? ( OK , OK , I know that people aged 50 or more can contribute $ 6500 , but let 's keep is simple for now , all right ? ) If you have violated the limit for 2015 , you still have time to put things right before April 18 , 2016 . This means withdrawing the excess contributions and all earnings therefrom by April 18 . If you fail to do so , you will be charged a 6 % penalty per year as long as the excess contributions plus earnings remain in your Traditional IRA account . More likely , the sum total of your weekly deposits does not exceed the the limit . But , if your contributions made during 2015 total the limit , do check that the weekly deposits made during 2016 are being correctly recorded as 2016 contributions and not as 2015 contributions . Finally , turning to your question about weekly conversions from Traditional IRA to Roth IRA , it is true that the IRS does not limit the number of such conversions per year , but your IRA custodian may want to charge fees for ( i ) converting too many times ( they have to do paperwork each time ) or ( ii ) low balance in the mutual-fund/bank/brokerage account that your Traditional IRA is invested in . My recommendation is to do the conversion once a year rather than weekly , but YMMV .
Once all the papers are signed , quitting your job will not have any consequences for the mortgage as long as you make all the payments on time . If you made any false statements when applying for the mortgage it 's possible that the mortgage could be nullified after it closes , but otherwise , it 's your obligation , and until you stop meeting that obligation ( including any other agreements you made like keeping it insured and not letting it fall into disrepair ) no one is going to bother you .
In the end it is your money . when you leave your job you will be given a few options if you have money in the 401k : 1 ) Leave it in the 401K account with the employer . You wo n't be able to contribute anymore , but you usually CAN keep the money there with no issues . For balances less than $ 5K , the employer can force you to take the money out of their plan ( see options 2-4 ) . I do n't generally suggest doing this . Option 3 gives you a lot more flexibility and usually less fees on the account . 2 ) Roll the balance into a new employers plan . 3 ) Roll the balance into a self-directed IRA or Roth IRA ( Depending on the type of 401K ) 4 ) Cash out the balance - EXTREMELY bad idea . You can lose up to 40 % of your money through penalties and taxes doing this . The employer match is slightly more complicated . You will want to look at the employer 's vesting period . Any employer match that is not vested , they will likely not let you keep . However YOUR contributions belong to you and they ca n't legally take that . Clarification on the vesting period : Companies have the option to specify a vesting period to encourage you to stay with them longer . How this typically works is that whatever you put in the 401K , they will contribute an additional amount ( usually less than 10 % ) of their money to your account with a string attached , that you only get to keep the money they put in the account if you stay with the company at least X years . In many cases they have a vesting schedule something like this : The vesting period never applies to money YOU put in the account , only what the employer contributes .
Your Purchase and Sale agreement should have a financing contingency . If it does n't , your money may be at risk , and the agent did you no favor . Edit - I answered when away from computer . This is a snapshot of the standard clause from the Greater Boston Real Estate Board . Each state has its own standard documents . <URL> The normal process is to have some level of prequalification , showing a high probability of final approval , make offer , then after it 's accepted , this form is part of the purchase and sale process .
A ) go directly to the companies ( that have to pay ) and tell them to draft from my account Make sure you know how to stop this feature , so that they do n't keep pulling from your bank account . Some people use an automatic billing to a bank account or credit card to pay their gym membership , then forget to turn it off even after they stop going . Best for bills that do n't change very often , that way there are no surprises . As long as you have money in the account , it will go through . B ) tell BOA to send them a check every month via Bill Pay Bills that can be paid electronically work the best , because the money gets to the company in a day or two , instead of a week . they can handle almost any company or individual by sending a check by mail . But it takes longer . The money comes out when the bank sends the check , not when the company cashes the check . Have to get proof of payment on the company website , or when the company sends a receipt . there will be no scanned check on the banking website . C ) tell BOA to direct deposit to their account ( not always possible ) I have used this only for mortgage payments to the same bank . There is 4th option . If the company can handle an automatic draft from your bank , they might be able to automatically charge a credit card . That means only one payment from the bank each month to pay the credit card bill . This takes dedication to not skip a payment and owe a lot of interest . You can also earn cash back , or miles for these transactions . A utility bill can sometimes be put on a level payment plan . They estimate your bills for the year based on past usage . They charge the same amount for 6 or 12 months , then they adjust to reflect actual usage and repeat the cycle .
Banks do n't generally " Post " transactions on Friday-Sunday , meaning any transfers made on those days do n't show up until someone processes it on Monday . I would expect the money to show today , and call your bank tomorrow if it does n't .
In the US , for most mortgages : You have a right to have PMI cancelled when you reach 80 % LTV . The bank must cancel PMI for you at 77-78 % LTV , unless you are behind on payments . The bank must cancel PMI at the midpoint of the loan amortization . The rules for how you compute LTV vary . Usually it 's based with current value . With FHA loans , you can not have the property re-assessed -- LTV is based on the original loan amortization . Note that in the wake of the housing crisis , assessors have suddenly become very conservative with valuations , so be prepared to fight over the valuation .
There are cases in which some Lease agreements will allow you to exit them without charge , but you can not simply vacate a location without paying . Cases that would allow you to leave the lease , if they are stated within the lease , are usually for reasons like : You or an immediate family member must move for a job . If you can prove that you have a job that is over a certain distance from the place you are currently residing in , there may be a clause that would allow you to break you lease , or simply the landlord may be more willing to allow you to go . You find the apartment or house to be unlivable If situations have changed , and conditions are now such that you can not safely live in the place , you may be able to break the lease . If you have a copy of your lease , look for these clauses or others near the end , that 's where they appear in mine . There are also other situations where if you give sufficient notice , and have been a long time tenant , breaking a lease may be only a small fee , certainly worth looking into rather than facing any legal recourse .
There is no generic answer and it would depend on case to case basis . CSD are built on strong foundation in the sense they would have very low cost base and generally would not go bankrupt . However if such a situation as CSD provide an essential role , the regulator , central bank and Government would all step in to prevent a total collapse . They would be forced merged with other entity or more capital raised or put under watch by Govt appointed trustee to settle issues so that there is least or No impact .
In theory , anything can happen , and the world could end tomorrow . However , with a reasonably sane financial plan you should be able to ride this out . If the government can not or wo n't immediately pay its debt in full , the most immediate consequence is that people are going to be unwilling to lend any more money in future , except at very high rates to reflect the high risk of future default . Presumably the government has got into this state by running a deficit ( spending more than they collect in tax ) and that is going to have to come to an abrupt end . That means : higher taxes , public service retrenchments and restrictions of service , perhaps cuts to social benefits , etc. . Countries that get into this state typically also have banks that have lent too much money to risky customers . So you should also expect to see some banks get into trouble , which may mean customers who have money on deposit will have trouble getting it back . In many cases governments will guarantee deposits , but perhaps only up to a particular ceiling like $ 100k . It would be very possible to lose everything if you have speculative investments geared by substantial loans . If you have zero or moderate debt , your net wealth may decrease substantially ( 50 % ? ) but there should be little prospect of it going to zero . It is possible governments will simply confiscate your property , but I think in a first-world EU country this is fairly unlikely to happen to bank accounts , houses , shares , etc. . Typically , a default has led to a fall in the value of the country 's currency . In the eurozone that is more complex because the same currency is used by countries that are doing fairly well , and because there is also turbulence in other major currency regions ( JPY , USD and GBP ) . In some ways this makes the adjustment harder , because debts ca n't be inflated down . All of this obviously causes a lot of economic turbulence so you can expect house prices to fall , share prices to gyrate , unemployment to rise . If you can afford it and come stomach the risk , it may turn out to be a good time to buy assets for the long term . If you 're reasonably young the largest impact on you wo n't be losing your current savings , but rather the impact on your future job prospects from this adjustment period . You never know , but I do n't think the Weimar Republic wheelbarrows-of-banknotes situation is likely to recur ; people are at least a bit smarter now and there is an inflation-targeting independent central bank . I think gold can have some room in a portfolio , but now is not the time to make a sudden drastic move into it . Most middle class people can not afford to have enough gold to support them for the rest of their life , though they may have enough for a rainy day or to act as a balancing component . So what I would do to cope with this is : be well diversified , be sufficiently conservatively positioned that I would sleep at night , and beyond that just ride it out and try not to worry too much . Do n't have all your cash savings in a single bank . Consider putting some money into a managed fund or ETF that invests outside of your country . This is easier to set up than a foreign bank account ( ymmv ) and diversifies against currency and local market risk . Live within your means . Keep your savings well diversified across location ( home/abroad ) , asset class ( cash/bonds/shares / property/gold ) , and institution .
Unfortunately assets placed in a safety deposit box are not covered under the Federal Deposit Insurance Program ( FDIC ) . Unless the bank is found to be negligent in the way it handled or protected your safety deposit box , neither them nor their private insurance company will reimburse you for the loss . Find out if in the duration you had your box with them , they moved , transitioned or merged with another entity . In this specific situation , you may be able to demonstrate negligence on the part of the banks as they have seemingly misplaced your box during their transition phase , and depending upon the value of the items placed in your safety deposit box , you may be entitled to some form of recovery . Some homeowner 's insurance policies may also cover the loss , but if you did n't document what you kept in the box , you have difficulty verifying proof of the value . Valuables are often lost but documents can often be reconstructed . You can get stock and bonds by paying a fee for new certificates . For wills and trusts , you can reach out to the lawyer that prepared them for a copy . You should always keep 3 copies of such documents . When you put stuff in the box , always videotape it ( photographs can be challenged ) but if the video shows it was put in there , although it can still be taken out by you after you turn off the camera , yields more weight in establishing content and potential value . Also know the value of the items and check with your homeowner policy to make sure the default amount covers it , if not then you may need to include a rider to add the difference in value and the video , receipts , appraisals and such will serve you well in the future in such unfortunate circumstances . If the contents of a safety deposit box are lost because you did n't pay the fee , then depending on the state you are in the time frame might vary ( 3 years on average ) , but none the less they are sent to the State 's unclaimed property/funds department . You can search for these online often times or by contacting the state . It would help for you to find out which scenario you are in , their fault or yours , and proceed accordingly . Good luck .
This is the sad state of US stock markets and Regulation T. Yes , while options have cleared &amp; settled for t +1 ( trade +1 day ) for years and now actually clear " instantly " on some exchanges , stocks still clear &amp; settle in t +3 . There really is no excuse for it . If you are in a margin account , regulations permit the trading of unsettled funds without affecting margin requirements , so your funds in effect are available immediately after trading but are n't considered margin loans . Some strict brokers will even restrict the amount of uncleared margin funds you can trade with ( Scottrade used to be hyper safe and was the only online discount broker that did this years ago ) ; others will allow you to withdraw a large percentage of your funds immediately ( I think E * Trade lets you withdraw up to 90 % of unsettled funds immediately ) . If you are in a cash account , you are authorized to buy with unsettled funds , but you ca n't sell purchases made on unsettled funds until such funds clear , or you 'll be barred for 90 days from trading as your letter threatened ; besides , most brokers do n't allow this . You certainly are n't allowed to withdraw unsettled funds ( by your broker ) in such an account as it would technically constitute a loan for which you are n't even liable since you 've agreed to no loan contract , a margin agreement . I ca n't be sure if that actually violates Reg T , but when I am , I 'll edit . While it is true that all marketable options are cleared through one central entity , the Options Clearing Corporation , with stocks , clearing &amp; settling still occurs between brokers , netting their transactions between each other electronically . All financial products could clear &amp; settle immediately imo , and I 'd rather not start a firestorm by giving my opinion why not . Do n't even get me started on the bond market ... As to the actual process , it 's called " clearing &amp; settling " . The general process ( which can generally be applied to all financial instruments from cash deposits to derivatives trading ) is : Transact ( deposit money , make a trade , etc ) Clear : agents give initial acknowledgement to each other that the transaction occured Settle ( &amp; net ) : " physically " exchange the necessary net assets ( nowadays , this is merely account entries on the books ) The reason why all of the old financial companies were grouped on Wall St. is because they 'd have runners physically carting all of the certificates from building to building . Then , they discovered netting so slowed down the process to balance the accounts and only cart the net amounts of certificates they owed each other . This is how we get the term " bankers hours " where financial firms would close to the public early to account for the days trading . While this is all really done instantly behind your back at your broker , they 've conveniently kept the short hours .
No , it wo n't affect your score until your statement is posted . Paying your bill before your statement is posted is actually a good way to keep your credit utilization low . If you 're worried about high credit utilization negatively affecting your credit score , consider paying your bill several times a month to ensure that when your final monthly statement is posted , your utilization is still low . When my credit limit was very low while I was in college , I did this almost every month , and I 've seen other sites recommend this practice as well . From <URL> : The easiest way [ to lower credit utilization ] is to make credit card payments more than once a month so that your balance never gets too high . and <URL> : Consider making payments to creditors more than once each month . Otherwise , if you put a major expense -- like a new appliance -- on a credit card , even if you plan to pay it off , your FICO score may take a hit . The reason is that credit scores are calculated as a snapshot in time , so if that happens to be right after you charged a new $ 700 washing machine , your utilization ratio will look worryingly high . Remember , though , that it 's best to have some balance on your card when your statement is posted ( assuming you pay it off in full each month ) , because as the chart shows , 0 % utilization is about as bad as utilization > 31-40 % : Also , remember that credit utilization affects your credit score <URL> , so if you have high utilization one month but a lower utilization the next month , the hit to your score will disappear once a statement with low utilization is posted .
Some additional information for the people who may read this question in the future : The situation is weird , to say the least . I 'm going to assume 2 things : You two ( you and the person who contacted you ) do n't know each other . You have only talked via e-mail , not voice . Now , look at these classic its-a-scam red flags : Random person contacts you . They want to do something with your bank account . They wont give out details about them , but will request/demand all sorts of personal/private details from you . They are in trouble . or its urgent . they want you to act fast ( haste makes waste ) Yet they can still communicate with you via internet/phone . In these conditions , it is not safe to give even the smallest shred of information to such people . I 'd advise you to ignore this person ( best option ) , or to offer to get them in touch with an official ( most scammers will run away at this point ) or threaten to report them ( not recommended , the scammer may take insult and try to " get back at you " ) . Hope this post helps and nobody gets scammed ! EDIT : Thank you for the amazing welcome ! If I 'd have known I 'd get such a huge response , I 'd have written a better answer ;) ( I hope I 'm not breaking any rules by this edit )
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
You receive a 1099-misc for the value of the car . You claim that as income ( even though you received goods rather than cash ) . When you sell the car , it would be much like selling any posession , and would cause no tax consequence unless the sale price was much different than the value ... When you sell the car , you may have received more or less than the value of the car ( likely less ) . If you sold it for more , then you might need to claim the additional money as income ( perhaps short term capital gains ) . If you sold it for less , but to a friend or relative , then you might think you could claim a loss , but the tax collector would just claim that you had given them a gift , and attempt to collect the tax from them . Contest winners often have the frustration that they are taxed at the full value of the item ( s ) won , even though they would not value the item at that amount . And contest prizes often do not sell for the full value stated on the 1099 , and often for much less . Marginal tax rates were higher prior to Reagan , and when a contest winner would sell an item for 80 % of the value , they often paid most of the proceeds to taxes .
end question
start question
When Is Using Too Much Credit Bad ?
It really depends on the credit reporting agency , and then on the people reading it . In this case , given the effectively small amount of the loan , so long as you are making the payments I would not be too concerned about it . What matters more in a revolving credit situation is the paying-off ; so if you make all payments on time , etc. , you are likely fine .
Are you allowed to have two personal current accounts with a debit card attached to each one ? Yes , you may have as many current accounts you want , but you should ask why should I have more than one . It is cumbersome and time consuming to keep track of ongoing incoming credits and outgoing debits . Open to bank fraud too , if you are n't careful . If yes , can a sole trader in the UK use the second personal account for business transactions ? Yes , but no payments to the business . At the end of the year you file you P11D , even if you have a business bank account . You would need to justify the expenses by keeping the bills and stuff . As it will be a personal account , you have to little more careful , not to mix personal and business expenses . If you are allowed to use a second personal account for business transactions , then why would someone choose to open a business bank account , where you have to pay ? What are the benefits ? First of all no company will pay into you personal account , for any transactions , they need to pay you . They will only pay to an account registered with the business , with whom they are dealing with . Benefits are you have your business expenses sorted out in one account and personal expenses in other . Pure business expenses comes out of the business account , rather than from your personal purse , keeps the accounts smooth . No need to sort out expenses at the end of each quarter or at the end of each month .
No , certainly not , with respect to what you wrote about the payroll contributions . You 're misunderstanding calculation and the meaning of the $ 53,600 " maximum amount " , which is but one input to the calculation that limits the pensionable earnings ( salary ) amount before a contribution rate is applied to those pensionable earnings to determine contributions . The employee and the employer each pay a percentage of salary ( 4.95 % ) into CPP , on the amount of pensionable earnings exceeding the basic exemption amount ( $ 3500 , constant ) and not exceeding the year 's maximum pensionable earnings ( $ 53,600 in 2015 , varying each year as it is indexed for average wage growth . ) So , a full-time employee earning $ 100K per year will pay in annual CPP contributions , and their employer the same ( 100 % match ) . The two contributions combined equal what a self-employed individual would pay into CPP for pensionable earnings ( salary , but not dividends ) . The calculation for employees and self-employed individuals is the same -- the principal difference is that somebody who is self-employed must pay both the employee portion ( 4.95 % ) and the employer portion ( also 4.95 % ) of the CPP contributions , for a total 9.9 % on their pensionable earnings exceeding $ 3,500 but not exceeding $ 53,600 . After all , somebody who works for their own company is both the employee and employer . Service Canada makes it very clear <URL> . Quoting : If you have an employer , you pay half the required contributions and your employer pays the other half . If you are self-employed , you make the whole contribution . The retirement pension benefit calculation is also identical . Years of self-employment pensionable earnings are not worth any more or any less than years of regular pensionable earnings from employment . Here 's a great article on estimating your CPP benefits : <URL> . The author of that article worked for Service Canada and is a CPP expert . Finally , the real ( and only ) advantage that self-employed individuals that work through their own corporation have with respect to CPP is that they can elect , in any given year , to take more compensation as dividend income instead of as salary . Dividends are n't subject to CPP contributions , and so less can be paid into CPP than someone who ca n't structure their compensation that way . Yet , since the CPP retirement pension calculation drops some low earnings years from the earnings history , a self-employed individual who takes lower salaries from time to time ( and pays less into CPP in those years ) could still end up with an unreduced pension -- provided they plan accordingly .
I did just what you suggest . The card company honored the charge , they told me the temporary number was solely for the purpose of assigning a number to one vendor/business . So even though I set a low limit , the number was still active and the card company paid the request . Small price to pay , but it did n't go as I wished . For this purpose , I 've used Visa/Mastercard gift cards . They are often on sale for face value and no additional fees .
It depends how you do it . If you roll it from your 401k directly to a Roth then you will have to pay the taxes . The contributions to the 401k are tax deferred . Meaning you do not owe taxes on the money until you collect it . Roth contributions are post tax but the gains are not taxed so long as they are disbursed under acceptable conditions according to the regulations . If you roll it directly from the 401k to a regular tax deferred IRA you should be able to do that with out penalties or taxes . You will still have to pay the taxes at disbursement . If you have the money disbursed to you directly then you will have to pay the penalties , fees , and taxes . Your contributions to an IRA will then be subject to limitations based on the IRA . It will literally be exactly like you are taking money from your pocket to invest in the IRA . Your company should give you the option of a rollover check . This check will be made out to you but it will not be able to be deposited in a regular account or cashed . It will only be redeemable for deposit into a retirement account that meets the regulatory requirements of the 401k rollover criteria . I believe the check I received a few years ago was only good for 60 days . I recall that after 60 days that check was void and I would receive a standard disbursement and would be subject to fees and penalties . I am not sure if that was the policy of T.Rowe Price or if that is part of the regulation .
I 've been doing this for years , and have n't had a problem ( yet ) . Since I pay of the entire balance every month , this ensures that I never have to pay interest because I forgot to send in a payment . As MoneyCone said , it does require discipline on your part to check your statement each month , prior to the autopay . Remember , that even with autopay , you can override it for particular statements . So if there is a fraudulent charge , you can dispute it with the credit card company , and manually pay the card whatever amount you want . The one thing I do worry about is the credit card making an error and withdrawing more than they should . This is why I have the autopay tied to my local credit union account , which I only keep enough to pay the credit card bills and the occasional paper check , limiting the damage . Most of my money are in an ING account , where I use online billpay to take care of the rest of my expenses .
Can he use an existing credit card in his name for all his business expenses , or does that pierce the corporate veil ? That would be a question to a lawyer , since there 's no definitive answer but rather circumstantial . Generally it is safer to separate the finances completely than to try and guess what the court would rule if it comes to that . It is not hard to get a separate card for a LLC ( especially if it is a sole proprietorship ) . We are going to buy a house soon , so I do n't want any extra inquiries . I guess it depends on the bank and the type of card . My Citi business card does n't show up on my personal credit report .
As for a formula , there is n't a simple one that you can apply to every type insurance . I 'll try my best for a simple answer . Is the event devastating enough to change your lifestyle ( looking at life necessities , not wants and nice to haves ) ? Is the event very likely to happen ? Do you have enough emergency funds to cover such an event ? Once that emergency fund is utilized , how long does it take you to restore that fund to be ready for the next event ? If the event is devastating enough and is very likely to happen and you do not have the cash to cover the event , and/or it would take too long to restore that emergency fund , then it makes sense to consider insurance . Then you would have to examine if the benefit ( s ) outweight cost of the premium paid for the insurance . If it is pennies of premium for a dollar of benefit , then it makes sense .
Here in the UK it 's certainly possible . We call it stoozing . The basic steps are Get a credit card with a long 0 % period for purchases and a savings account with as high a rate as possible . Do your regular shopping on the credit card , make minimum payments each month Put the money you would normally spend on your regular shopping into the high rate savings account instead . At the end of the 0 % period either pay the card off in full or get a suitable card and do a balance transfer . Get a new spending card ( may be the same one as the balance transfer card but you often get better deals with seperate cards ) . <URL> I guess people get away with this because the number of people with the skills/diligance to do it right and who can be bothered with the hassle is fairly small .
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
PE in isolation does not tell anything . A higher PE as mentioned by oldergod just means that the market is believing that this company will do good in future
Your question is intriguing as statistics are a funny thing . There 's average which is just that , total all income and divide by population . Then there 's median , which is where 50 % are higher , 50 % lower . I 'm ignorant of Australia , forgive me , if there is a large concentration of wealth , the average becomes less and less meaningful as a measure of the general welfare of the population . Simple example , one in 100 people earn $ 1M . That means the other 99 make $ 10K less to get to the same average , right ? So to educate myself I took a glance at <URL> . In fact , your GINI coefficient is more favorable , as is your R/P 10 % . I do n't know if this was tangential to your question , but it was a lesson for me , thanks .
In regards to your question about Social Security being taxable income , yes - Social Security distributions are currently considered taxable income . That was n't the case for decades , but what Congress giveth , Congress can taketh away . According to IRS tax tip 2010-31 ( http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=179091,00.html ) : Add one-half of the total Social Security benefits you receive to all your other income , including any tax exempt interest and other exclusions from income . " If that is higher than the following ( 2009 ) base amounts , some of your benefits may be taxable : · $ 32,000 for married couples filing jointly . · $ 25,000 for single , separated , head of household , widow w / dependent child · $ 0 for married filing separately So if you 're single , you 'd have to keep your 401k + traditional IRA distributions + 1/2 social security distributions under $ 25k to avoid the social security adding to your taxable income In 2010 , the 15 % tax bracket stops at $ 34k for single filers .
They 're not negotiating trade rates for you , you set the trade rates in your order . What they might have is a slightly slower system , delivering your orders a second later than the competition would . If that 's critical to you then you should look at that , otherwise look at their fees , customer support and research aids because that 's where the broker value is .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
$ 400K is equity , $ 200K is principal owed on your mortgage . Cost basis is still $ 500K .
I 'm assuming by " bad credit " you mean low credit score or negative marks on your credit report . If so - yes , most definitely . Not only that , the IRS can garnish your salary and put a lien on your property , and these also appear on the credit report and affect your credit score .
If you have zero activity on a card , the issuing bank may decide to close that card . They have some costs each month , and if you are n't using the card they are n't making money off of you . Your inactivity is also a risk because if you lost the card , and do n't realize it , and it falls into the wrong hands then it can be used for fraudulent transactions . In their view it might already have been hijacked . If they close your account that can hurt your score : your utilization number will go up , and the age of your accounts could go down . They want you to use their card so they make money on the transaction fees and hopefully interest payments .
Sounds like you 've got a good approach on the cost/benefit calculation and just lack one of the variables . My own findings are confirming that information on specific insurance company defensive driving discounts are n't generally disclosed , and discounts are n't consistent across companies . Some insurance company pages I found do confirm many offer a discount , but not exactly what percentage that discount would be . Further browsing revealed : an <URL> : " they offer a 10 % discount if I take a defensive driving class " a mention from <URL> & sup1 ; that " Some insurance companies give a reduction in rates to course participants " -- meaning , other insurance companies might not ! <URL> : " Courses may also qualify the student for a discount on car insurance . " [ my emphasis ] An <URL> stating " varies [ ... ] but discounts of 5-15 % are common . " So if we told you " between zilch and 15 % " , does that satisfy or would you still be wondering ? ;-) I think you need to seek out information specific to your case . IIWY , I would call my car insurance company and ask : " If I qualified for your defensive driving discount , how much would I be paying for my policy , all else being equal ? What specific or kinds of courses would qualify me ? Online , or in-car only ? " It 's in their interest to inform you on this , since better trained policy-holders are less likely to claim . & sup1 ; Note : I do n't endorse any particular company ; this was just an example from my search results .
end question
start question
Should I ask credit report companies to remove old info ?
The outdated information is still useful to the credit agencies and for identification . If you have ever run a cross a instance where they ask you to tell them which of the following streets did you own a property . They were using the historical info in the file to make sure that you were the person that was reflected the file . The different spellings may be a different matter . If the a person has the formal name of William , but may have info as Bill , Will and Billy , that should be reflected in the file . If they changed their name when they got married , both names should be listed . But if you never used that name , the record needs to be corrected . And by correct I do n't mean just change the name . Now if the record in the file regardless of the name , address , and phone number is not yours that has to be changed . All credit bureaus have procedures in place for you to challenge the info . This is one reason why you should check your file every year .
It 's a good idea to have some emergency money so I would propose a plan that keeps some in your savings : Pay off the ones with 2 % in full . Take your time with the one that is at 0 % . You are n't losing any money on it . If the 0 % goes away , then consider paying it off , but by that time hopefully you have built up your savings a bit more . Also consider the ability to move the balance from the 2 % cards to the 0 % one , if that is possible .
I ca n't address the psychology of trust involved in your question , but here are some common sense guidelines for dealing with your issue . Make sure you know who you are talking to . Call the company you need to speak to via a publicly available phone number . An email or something you got in a letter might be from a different source . If you use a website , you should be sure you are on the correct website . Keep careful records . Make good notes of each phone call and keep all emails and letters forever . Note the time , name and/or ID of the person you spoke to and numbers called in addition to keeping notes on what actions should be done . Keep your faxing transmission receipts and shipping tracking numbers too . If you are nervous , ask them why they want the info . The fraud department should be able to explain it to you . For example , they probably want your social because that is how your credit report is identified . If they are going to fix a credit report , they will need a social . It is doubtful they would have a good explanation why they need your mother 's maiden name . Ask for secure transmission , or confirm they have it . Postal mail is n't so secure , but I 'll go out on a limb and say most fax machines today are not really fax machines , but software that deals in PDFs . At some point you will have to realize you will have to transmit something . No method is perfect , but you can limit your exposure . Help them do their jobs . If you are ( understandably ) nervous , consider their motivations : corporate profit . BUT that could very well mean not running afoul of the law and ( with any luck ) treating customers the best way they know to earn business . If you stymy the fraud department , how can they help you ? If the ID theft was serious enough , document your issue for future law enforcement so you getting pulled over for speeding does n't result in you going to jail for whatever crime the other person did . Perhaps the fraud department you are dealing with can assist there . Finally , while you work with fraud departments to clear up your name and account , work on the other end to limit future damage . <URL> . See if you bank or credit card have monitoring . Use CreditKarma.com or a similar if you can not find a free service . ( Please do n't ever pay for credit monitoring . )
Seems like it would be easier to wait . Credit inquires do n't make up such a large part of your score . Pay your bills on time , do n't have a ton of debt and your credit will heal quickly without trying to game the system . Equifax is only one of three players , so anything you do to " fix " equifax is going to show up on the others . Bumping inquires off of Equifax will just pollute Transunion and Experian . Edit from JoeTaxpayer - You might consider signing up at <URL> , a free service , it will let you see the inquiries in real time , and knowing they fall off after two years , you can track the impact to you score .
There are two types of inquiries when checking your credit score : soft and hard inquiries . Soft inquiries usually do not affect your credit score . They can be triggered without your permission . Examples of soft inquiries are : When you check your own credit score When an employer checks your background/credit When you get pre-approved for a credit card Renting a car Hard inquiries on the other hand affect your credit score . These are most likely triggered with your consent . They affect your credit score because if you trigger many hard inquiries ; this is seen as being desperate for credit . Examples of hard inquiries are : Getting a loan from your bank . Applying for a credit card Applying for a mortgage
From the article <URL> The IRS has some advice for taxpayers who missed the tax filing deadline . File as soon as possible . If you owe federal income tax , you should file and pay as soon as you can to minimize any penalty and interest charges . There is no penalty for filing a late return if you are due a refund .
The formulas used by the three major credit bureaus ( Experian , TransUnion , Equifax ) are proprietary trade secrets . They 're each slightly different , and are fed differing data , so your " score " is likely to deviate from bureau to bureau . A Google search for " Credit Score Estimator " returns several pages of links to FICO estimation web apps . Be careful ; you 're feeding personal information about your credit history into these sites in many cases . I just ran through <URL> , which does not ask for any identifying information , and estimated my score to within 40 points , and is accurate as of the last time I checked my actual scores .
From Equifax FAQ : <URL> ? - " Good information , like your on-time payment of credit card bills or your mortgage , can stay on your credit history forever . Having more good information helps strengthen your credit history and increase your credit score . " Removing old items for the sake of ' cleaning up ' your report may not be possible , and is probably unnecessary . ' Old ' items , closed accounts that were paid off , are not a negative , although I understand the desire to see them fall off .
My information is 10 years old but back then i am glad i consolidated . First of all the consolidated loan was at the fixed rate while my Stafford loans were floating . In addition the consolidation company offered discounts for timely payments and electronic fund transfer so after a couple of years my rate had 0.75 % discount . So if nothing changed and your loans are floating and you can consolidate at fixed rate it probably makes sense as rate will probably not going to be any lower One thing to look out for is that many consolidated loans are offering 20 year term instead of 10 . So just be disciplined enough to make extra payments monthly so you can still pay it off in 10 years ( or less )
Their income is from the two sources you mentioned - they charge the merchants for each use , and they make interest money on people who carry a balance . This is one reason a lot of merchants will be willing to give you a discount if you pay cash - they do n't have to give a portion to VISA or MasterCard . I would n't be able to speak to the relative proportions between the two income sources , but when many cards are at 30 % interest for balances carried , and many people have tens of thousands of dollars owed on their cards , the interest income is not insignificant . They 'll also charge interest immediately on cash advances . A few cards also make money off of annual fees , although I 'd suspect this is not very much in the full scheme of things . The way to get the most out of a card , is to always pay it off fully at the end of each month .
The company does n't necessarily have to go public . They can also be worth money if the company is acquired . Also keep in mind that even if the company does eventually go public , your shares can essentially be wiped out by a round of pre-IPO funding that gives the company a low valuation . You could ask : what is the size of the employee pool ? how many classes are outstanding ? was the last round up or down ? what is the mechanism to exercise your options ? can you exercise whenever you want ?
I wrote an article <URL> in which I detail how the ideal credit utilization is 1-19 % . So , doing the math , $ 5000 will support $ 1000 ( actually $ 950 ) worth of spending . If you do n't get higher credit lines , and find you charge more now and then , simply make a payment mid-cycle . It 's the amount on the statement that gets reported , not daily balances .
No . Income inside an RRSP is sheltered from income tax until you withdraw it . That is , indeed , the major benefit of RRSPs . Note that you will eventually declare this as income . Consider the following case : - in 2015 , you make $ 1000 in income . - in 2015 , you contribute $ 100 to your RRSPs . You store this in an account that pays interest , rather than investing it in stocks , bonds , or mutual funds . - between 2015 and 2025 , your money makes an additional $ 100 in interest . - in 2025 , you are retired and pull out the entire amount in your RRSP , i.e. $ 200 . Now , between 2015 and 2025 , you did not declare the income from interest . You 'd have had to do this if the money was in a regular bank account ( instead of an RRSP or a TFSA ) . Indeed , your bank would have issued tax forms in that case . But you do n't report income sheltered in an RRSP . This is good , as it increases the power of compounding . In 2015 , you pay tax on only $ 900 rather than the full $ 1000 . In 2025 , you pull out the entire $ 200 . You report all $ 200 as income ( or , actually , as a withdrawal from your RRSP , but it 's the same thing ) . You pay tax on the initial $ 100 investment ( which you did not do in 2015 ) , and you also pay tax on the $ 100 that your investment has made ( and which you are now pulling out ) . The hope is that your income is now lower , as you are retired . So you 'll end up paying less income tax . Plus , your investment has had many years of opportunity to compound , tax-free . TL ; DNR : You do n't pay tax on , or report gains in , an RRSP account . The bank or investment house wo n't even issue tax forms , not until you withdraw the money .
You can do this through a journal entry in Quickbooks . It can all be entered as one entry , there 's no need to do separate ones for each bill . The journal entry should debit Accounts Payable and credit your equity account . In the line for Accounts Payable , make sure to choose your name in the ' Name ' column . This , in effect , enters a credit to your account , which will offset the bills that were shown there previously . The last step is to apply those credits to the bills . Even though they offset each other , your name would still show up in any Payables reports and in the Pay Bills window . To do this , open the Pay Bills window and select one of the bills owed to you . There should be an option to choose ' Apply Credits ' or something similar ( depends on which version of Quickbooks you are running ) . Choose that option , and apply credits in the amount of the bill , so that it zeroes out . Do the same for all of the other bills . Once they are all checked off , click the button to Pay Bills . This wo n't actually ' pay ' anything , but will instead just apply the credits to the bills as indicated .
I suggest rolling it over to the 401 ( k ) with your new employer . Particularly if they match any percentage of your contribution , it would be in your interest to take as much of that money as possible . When it comes to borrowing money from your 401 ( k ) , it looks like the issues AbraCadaver mentioned only apply if you do n't pay back the money ( <URL> ) . The reasonable argument against taking money out of your 401 ( k ) to buy a home is that it leaves a dent in your retirement nest egg ( and its earning power ) during key earning years . On the plus side for borrowing from your 401 ( k ) , it 's very low interest -- and it 's interest you 're paying back to yourself over a 5-year period . At its current value , the most you could borrow from your 401 ( k ) is $ 35K . If you 're fortunate in where you live , that could be most or all of the downpayment . In my own experience , my wife borrowed against her 401 ( k ) balance for the earnest money when we purchased a new home . Fortunately for us , an investor snapped up my previous home within 4 days of us listing it , so she was able to pay back her loan in full right away .
New legislation in the US aims to protect young borrowers . ( Just what you were hoping ! ) See Title III <URL> . My understanding of the new law is that individuals 18 to 20 years old applying for a credit card are required to either 1 ) have a parent/guardian co-sign , 2 ) prove they could independently repay the credit being offered , or 3 ) take a special financial education course for young consumers . It also requires parent ( or legal guardian , spouse , etc ) approval for a credit limit increase on a card that is co-signed by that parent , etc. .
Moody 's is now Mergent Online . It 's no longer being printed , and must be accessed digitally . In order to browse the database , check with your local public library or university to see if you can get access . ( A University will probably require you to visit for access ) . Another good tool is Value Line Reports . They are printed information sheets on public companies that are updated regularly , and are convenient for browsing and for comparing securities . Again , check your local libraries . A lot of the public information you may be looking for can be found on Yahoo Finance , for free , from home . Yahoo finance , will give financial information , ratios , news , filings , analysis , all in one place .
In the short run , its better you get a credit card from India . Generally most cards issued in India can be used internationally . Use this for initial few months in the US till you get a credit card in US .
<URL> FDIC currently insures up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that as a comment to Jeffery but it says it was locked . ) You do n't want to put all your eggs in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shopping all the time you can keep your accounts in a single place so long as that single place provides the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your banking institutions because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , having lots of accounts means you are familiar with lots of institutions , so you are likely better at shopping around . Things I consider . For fewer institutions : Best rates Package deals , getting bigger discounts Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of managing accounts and summary statements Fewer phone calls to make in the case of emergencies For more institutions : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank is compromised I can play banks offers off of each other ( price matching or beating by 5 % ) More and varied accounts helps with credit score ( I think )
In the United States , nobody is obligated to report information on your to the credit bureaus . Doing so is an incentive they hold to keep you honest . If repossession of an item is n't an option , lenders have little recourse besides hurting your credit . It is n't all that hard to declare bankruptcy , and lenders are n't allowed to threaten ( or act on ) you with harm . <URL> Furthermore , companies are n't even required to report accurately it seems . The law simply says that you can have it corrected , not that companies are bound for accuracy in the first place .
end question
start question
How do resident foreign currency accounts in India work ?
Is the balance ( in dollars , say ) automatically converted to rupees when I try to : You ca n't transact on this account like you do on savings account . So there is NO ATM/Debit Card/Net Banking . You have to walk-in to the Branch and withdraw in local currency or in travel cards as required . Am I correct in understanding that a resident foreign currency account can not have deposits made into it in rupees , say if someone wants to transfer money to me using IMPS ? Deposits are restricted . <URL>
Yes , you 're still exposed to currency risk when you purchase the stock on company B 's exchange . I 'm assuming you 're buying the shares on B 's stock exchange through an <URL> , <URL> , or similar instrument . The risk occurs as a result of the process through which the ADR is created . In its simplest form , the process works like this : An international bank buys shares in the company on country A 's stock exchange . The bank chooses a conversion rate . This is the number of shares they want to offer on country B 's stock exchange per each share they purchased on country A 's exchange . This conversion rate includes the exchange rate between the two currencies . Example I 'll illustrate this with an example . I 've separated the conversion rate into the exchange rate and a generic " ADR conversion rate " which includes all other factors the bank takes into account when deciding how many ADR shares to sell . The fact that the units line up is a nice check to make sure the calculation is logically correct . My example starts with these assumptions : The price of the company on a European stock exchange is 50 EUR/share . The exchange rate is 1.29056 USD/EUR . I made up the generic ADR conversion rate ; it will remain constant throughout this example . This is the simplified version of the calculation of the ADR share price from the European share price : Let 's assume that the euro appreciates against the US dollar , and is now worth 1.4 USD ( this is a major appreciation , but it makes a good example ) : The currency appreciation alone raised the share price of the ADR , even though the price of the share on the European exchange was unchanged . Now let 's look at what happens if the euro appreciates further to 1.5 USD/EUR , but the company 's share price on the European exchange falls : Even though the euro appreciated , the decline in the share price on the European exchange offset the currency risk in this case , leaving the ADR 's share price on the US exchange unchanged . Finally , what happens if the euro experiences a major depreciation and the company 's share price decreases significantly in the European market ? This is a realistic situation that has occurred several times during the European sovereign debt crisis . Assuming this occurred immediately after the first example , European shareholders in the company experienced a ( 43.50 - 50 ) / 50 = -13 % return , but American holders of the ADR experienced a ( 15.95 - 21.5093 ) / 21.5093 = -25.9 % return . The currency shock was the primary cause of this magnified loss . Other points Another point to keep in mind is that the foreign company itself may be exposed to currency risk if it conducts a lot of business in market with different currencies . Ideally the company has hedged against this , but if you invest in a foreign company through an ADR ( or a GDR or another similar instrument ) , you may take on whatever risk the company has n't hedged in addition to the currency risk that 's present in the ADR/GDR conversion process . Here are a few articles that discuss currency risk specifically in the context of ADR 's : <URL> , <URL> . Nestle , a Swiss company that is traded on US exchanges through an ADR , even addresses this issue <URL> . There are <URL> associated with instruments like ADR 's and cross-listed companies , but normally arbitrageurs will remove these discontinuities quickly . Especially for cross-listed companies , this should keep the prices of highly liquid securities relatively synchronized .
It 's a form . I have a retired woman ( my mother in law in the interest of disclosure ) who would otherwise be in the 15 % bracket . In November , I filled out , and she signed the form to move from IRA acct to Roth Acct $ 10,000 . Done . In March , I 'll look at TurboTax and see the line " taxable income " which will tell me how much we went into the 25 % bracket . We will recharacterize that exact amount . In 2011 , <URL> that will be the exact amount of her taxable income when I am done with her return . Her RMDs are increasing in percent each year , but we shift to Roth and are staying ahead of the curve so she never pays 25 % . Minor note - the RMD numbers are produced as of Dec 31 . So the money we recharacterize has to be added back in . The broker may not do this automatically , you should double check . No fees . We use Schwab .
You can do a trustee to trustee exchange . You will need to contact both companies to coordinate the paperwork . As long as both accounts are the same type ( traditional \ Roth ) you are fine . You can also do a rollover where you have the check but there are some limitations and deadlines which are avoided by the trustee to trustee exchange . For example the IRS limits the number of rollovers to one a year . You can have multiple accounts of the same type . The annual contribution limits can be split across accounts . Rollovers and transfers are not part of annual contribution limits .
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
A stipend received for the specific purposes of studies is not taxable . It is not clear from your question as to whether there are any strings attached to the money you receive . If its not for specific purpose , then its taxable as income and tax need to be paid accordingly . Please consult a CA and he can go through the specifics of your case .
Basically the idea is you put the exact amount of cash into each envelope and set those aside for a specific purpose . Then when you go to accomplish that specific purpose such as grocery shopping or whatever , you take the corresponding envelope and use only the money that is inside . It is sort of a way to train yourself to follow budgets very strictly . Many people stand by this method and it really is as simple as the website you linked to . As far as tracking , this method really does n't track anything aside from what you note down about where the money is going . Others have moved on to using ING sub accounts to do the same thing but in a digital form .
Short answer : it 's complicated . The UK govt pages on foreign income are probably your best starting point : <URL> As you can see , it depends on your precise residence status here . ( There is a tax treaty between the UK and the US so you would n't be double taxed on the income either way . But there might still be reporting obligations ) .
The risk that you do n't see it . It might end up in your spam folder , the email server might fail etc. . A physical note may have a delivery receipt ( courier company 's counterfoil or post details ) but it 's very difficult to ensure delivery with e-contract-notes . The risk that the note is modified before it gets to you . Physical contract notes are usually printed , and you are likely to notice modifications . E-notes can be changed ( many such notes are sent as HTML in a non-encrypted zip file ) . Many brokers do digitally sign notes nowadays but it is no longer required . But I think the regulation is a vestige of the past , and has mainly to do with 1 ) above , i.e. that they ca n't ensure delivery . There 's no standard contract note format , or even a standard delivery mechanism either .
Taxability does not depending on transfer of money to NRO . It depending on your tax status in India . Assuming you have spent more than 182 days outside India for the financial year 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 , you would be NRI . I am transferring money from my Maldives saving account to my Indian Saving account ( NRO ) . Will it be taxable in India ? Assuming you are NRI , this is not taxable . Any interest in NRO account is taxable in India . Again I am transferring the money from my Indian savings account to my dad 's Indian saving account . Will it be taxable ? This is not taxable to you . To your father it would be treated as Gift . As per Gift tax , this is not taxable to your father as well . If the amount is large , keep proper documentation of the transaction . Any income that is generated i.e. interest etc on this amount will be taxable to your father .
Unemployment insurance provides a temporary safety net to workers who lose their jobs by replacing a portion of their salary for certain periods . Each state administers its own unemployment insurance program so some rules may vary from state to state . Eligibility To receive unemployment insurance payments , you must have lost your job through no fault of your own . If you quit your job or lost it because of poor performance or another justifiable reason , you are not eligible for unemployment insurance benefits . State unemployment insurance programs require claimants to have worked sufficiently before they can claim benefits . Verification As soon as you apply for unemployment insurance , an agency with the state in which you live will verify that you were a victim of a layoff by contacting your previous employer and making sure you lost your job due to lack of work and not an action within your control . Calculation After the state verifies you were indeed the victim of a layoff , your weekly payment is calculated . Your payment will be a percentage of what you made in your previous job , generally between 20 percent and 50 percent , depending on your state . Unemployment insurance replaces only a portion of your previous pay because it is intended to pay only for the essentials of living such as food and utilities until you find new employment . Waiting Period Before you begin receiving benefits , you must complete a waiting period of typically one or two weeks . If you find a new job during this period , you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits , even if the job does not pay you as much as your previous job . After the waiting period , you will begin to receive your weekly payments . Employers pay for unemployment insurance through payroll taxes . So , while employees ' work and earnings history are important to funding their unemployment benefits , the money does not come from their pay . Employer unemployment insurance contributions depend on several factors , including how many former employees have received benefits . Base Wages Employers pay taxes on an employee 's base wages , which vary by state . California , for example taxes employers on the first $ 7,000 of an employee 's annual earnings , while neighboring Oregon taxes up to $ 32,000 of wages . Employers must set aside funds each payroll period and then report taxes and pay their states quarterly . State Rate Categories States have several categories of tax rates they charge employers . New businesses and those first adding employees pay the " new rate , " which is typically lower and geared toward small businesses . Established businesses who have n't paid their taxes recently or properly are usually assessed the " standard rate " -- the highest possible tax rate , which in 2010 ranged from 5.4 percent in several states including Georgia , Hawaii and Alaska to 13.56 percent in Pennsylvania . Businesses in good standing may receive discounts under the " experienced rate . " Depending on the number of employees a business has and how many former employees have claimed unemployment , states can give sizable rate reductions . The fewer claims , the lower the rate a business pays in unemployment insurance taxes . As a result of the economic crisis legislation has been passed to extend Unemployment benefits . Regular unemployment benefits are paid for a maximum of 26 weeks in most states . However , additional weeks of extended unemployment benefits are available during times of high unemployment . The unemployment extension legislation passed by Congress in February 2012 changed the way the tiers of Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) are structured . A tier of unemployment is an extension of a certain amount of weeks of unemployment benefits . There are currently four tiers of unemployment benefits . Each tier provides extra weeks of unemployment in addition to basic state unemployment benefits . Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) Tiers June - August 2012 : Tier 1 : 20 weeks Tier 2 : 14 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 6 % or higher Tier 3 : 13 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 7 % or higher Tier 4 : 6 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 9 % or higher Source and further information can be found here - <URL> - About.com Sources : <URL> - US Dept. of Labor <URL> - eHow <URL> - eHow Additional Info : You can file for UI over the internet here are some useful resources . <URL> <URL> - About.com <URL> - eHow
Your broker should be able to provide you with the amount of foreign dividends . Most brokerage statements have an expanded section after the 1099s with dividend details , realised gains and losses , margin interest , investment fees and other detailed information that is not reported to the IRS .
This is usually a piece of information obtainable from the central/government bank of that country . Each country has its own laws , and each currency release has its own laws . I 've lived in a place that changed bills to coins , and the bills can still be returned to any bank for replacement , but are not considered " legal tender " in the sense that you can go and buy stuff with them ( anyone who is not a bank has a right not to accept them as money ) . Same country had a currency change 10 years prior ( not just bills , the whole currency including the currency name ) , and the old bills are no longer valid and can not be exchanged ( I have some left ) . So to answer your question directly - central bank of that country ( if it exists , if it does n't the currency is probably just a collectible item ) . BTW : To the best of my knowledge , all the European currencies that were changed to Euro 's are no longer valid and can no longer be exchanged .
You are correct to be wary . Car dealerships make money selling cars , and use many tactics and advertisements to entice you to come into their showroom . " We are in desperate need of [ insert your make , model , year and color ] ! We have several people who want that exact car you have ! Come in and sell it to us and buy a new car at a great price ! We 'll give you so much money on your trade in ! " In reality , they play a shell game and have you focus on your monthly payment . By extending the loan to 4 or 5 years ( or longer ) , they can make your monthly payment lower , sure , but the total amount paid is much higher . You 're right : it 's not in your best interest . Buy a car and drive it into the ground . Being free of car payments is a luxury !
Banks in India are required to credit the interest every 6 months . However certain banks to certain customers even credit it once in 3 months .
A re-financing , or re-fi , is when a debtor takes out a new loan for the express purpose of paying off an old one . This can be done for several reasons ; usually the primary reason is that the terms of the new loan will result in a lower monthly payment . Debt consolidation ( taking out one big loan at a relatively low interest rate to pay off the smaller , higher-interest loans that rack up , like credit card debt , medical bills , etc ) is a form of refinancing , but you most commonly hear the term when referring to refinancing a home mortgage , as in your example . To answer your questions , most of the money comes from a new bank . That bank understands up front that this is a re-fi and not " new debt " ; the homeowner is n't asking for any additional money , but instead the money they get will pay off outstanding debt . Therefore , the net amount of outstanding debt remains roughly equal . Even then , a re-fi can be difficult for a homeowner to get ( at least on terms he 'd be willing to take ) . First off , if the homeowner owes more than the home 's worth , a re-fi may not cover the full principal of the existing loan . The bank may reject the homeowner outright as not creditworthy ( a new house is a HUGE ding on your credit score , trust me ) , or the market and the homeowner 's credit may prevent the bank offering loan terms that are worth it to the homeowner . The homeowner must often pony up cash up front for the closing costs of this new mortgage , which is money the homeowner hopes to recoup in reduced interest ; however , the homeowner may not recover all the closing costs for many years , or ever . To answer the question of why a bank would do this , there are several reasons : The bank offering the re-fi is usually not the bank getting payments for the current mortgage . This new bank wants to take your business away from your current bank , and receive the substantial amount of interest involved over the remaining life of the loan . If you 've ever seen a mortgage summary statement , the interest paid over the life of a 30-year loan can easily equal the principal , and often it 's more like twice or three times the original amount borrowed . That 's attractive to rival banks . It 's in your current bank 's best interest to try to keep your business if they know you are shopping for a re-fi , even if that means offering you better terms on your existing loan . Often , the bank is itself " on the hook " to its own investors for the money they lent you , and if you pay off early without any penalty , they no longer have your interest payments to cover their own , and they usually ca n't pay off early ( bonds , which are shares of corporate debt , do n't really work that way ) . The better option is to keep those scheduled payments coming to them , even if they lose a little off the top . Often if a homeowner is working with their current bank for a lower payment , no new loan is created , but the terms of the current loan are renegotiated ; this is called a " loan modification " ( especially when the Government is requiring the bank to sit down at the bargaining table ) , or in some cases a " streamlining " ( if the bank and borrower are meeting in more amicable circumstances without the Government forcing either one to be there ) . Historically , the idea of giving a homeowner a break on their contractual obligations would be comical to the bank . In recent times , though , the threat of foreclosure ( the bank 's primary weapon ) does n't have the same teeth it used to ; someone facing 30 years of budget-busting payments , on a house that will never again be worth what he paid for it , would look at foreclosure and even bankruptcy as the better option , as it 's theoretically all over and done with in only 7-10 years . With the Government having a vested interest in keeping people in their homes , making whatever payments they can , to keep some measure of confidence in the entire financial system , loan modifications have become much more common , and the banks are usually amicable as they 've found very quickly that they 're not getting anywhere near the purchase price for these " toxic assets " . Sometimes , a re-fi actually results in a higher APR , but it 's still a better deal for the homeowner because the loan does n't have other associated costs lumped in , such as mortgage insurance ( money the guarantor wants in return for underwriting the loan , which is in turn required by the FDIC to protect the bank in case you default ) . The homeowner pays less , the bank gets more , everyone 's happy ( including the guarantor ; they do n't really want to be underwriting a loan that requires PMI in the first place as it 's a significant risk ) . The U.S. Government is spending a lot of money and putting a lot of pressure on FDIC-insured institutions ( including virtually all mortgage lenders ) to cut the average Joe a break . Banks get tax breaks when they do loan modifications . The Fed 's buying at-risk bond packages backed by distressed mortgages , and where the homeowner has n't walked away completely they 're negot
It is considered additional income , so the 1 % is added to your other income , and then the tax is normally calculated . You can imagine it as getting a raise in that amount , paying your taxes on the higher salary , and then making the virtual ' payment ' in the original height to the car dealership . The net effect of this is a slightly increased tax rate on all your existing income , plus the full increased tax rate of the 1 % . Your net salary ( paycheck ) will be accordingly lower . It is still most of the time a good deal , as you have a car at hand for very low price . Only if it would have otherwise driven a very cheap car , and do n't value the upgrade at all , it might be borderline negative .
A title such as " 5 % Treasury Gilt 2020 " expresses the nominal yield . In other words , 5 % is the yield you will receive if you are able to buy the Gilt at the nominal ( issue ) price of GBP100 . Of course , you will not be able to buy such a Gilt in today 's market for the nominal price of GBP100 . It will be trading at a considerable premium and therefore , if you hold it until maturity you will realise a capital loss to offset the relatively high income you have received . Here is an example . The " 8 % June 2021 Gilt " has a coupon of 8 % . To purchase a GBP100 nominal Gilt in today 's market will cost you GBP135 .89 . Thus , you will pay 135.89 to receive GBP8 .00 income annually . This represents a 5.88 % yield ( 8/135 .89 = 5.88 % ) . That sounds pretty good . However , if you hold the Gilt until maturity you will only receive GBP100 on redemption and therefore you will experience a capital loss GBP35 .89 on each Gilt purchased . When this capital loss is taken into account it means that the 5.88 % yield you are receiving as income will be offset by the capital loss so that you have earned the equivalent of 0.757 % annually . You can of course sell the Gilt before its 2021 maturity date , however as the maturity date gets closer the market price will get closer to the GBP100 nominal value and you will again face a capital loss . There 's no free ride in the markets . 5 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 0.75 % , while 10 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 1.15 % . You may also wish to note that buying Gilts in the open market requires a minimum purchase of GBP10 ,000 nominal value . However , you can purchase small Gilt holdings through the post office .
In general , if you are paying taxes in Canada , you are eligible to contribute to an RRSP . That said , it still may not be appropriate . If you are only here two years , then you will not accumulate much contribution room . Then once you move away , your options become more limited . Most brokerage accounts in theory require you to be resident in Canada in order to issue instructions - an odd holdover I agree , and one that with internet connections may well not be easy to enforce . I presume you are looking for some kind of tax shelter ? I would suggest you look at the new-ish TFSA ( Tax Free Savings Accounts ) as a possible alternative . Even more specifically , if you are making enough that any of these matter , then consulting with a tax accountant is likely money well spent . They will be much better able to advise you about your specific situation with respect to accounting for taxes between your home country and your temporary status in Canada . Good Luck
Credit card companies charge 2 % -3 % transaction fees . On typical retail transactions [ buying clothes , groceries , electronic goods , etc ] the margin is in excess of 10-30 % . Hence the Merchants tend to absorb the cost of card from profit margin . In petrol transactions , the dealer make a fixed amount per liter of pertol/desiel sold . They can not absorb the loss of 3 % . Hence they charge additional Fuel surcharge to make up for that loss . Some companies will lift the surcharge fee with a minimum transaction amount . For example , many fuel stations wo n't apply the surcharge if you buy at least 400 Rupees of fuel . There are also Card Tie-up where by Card Issuing Companies absorb this cost and hence no additional surcharge .
end question
start question
If I put dividend-paying stocks in my IRA , where does the dividend go when paid ?
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
You have the cause and effect backwards , the interest rate is the driver , not the bond price . The value of a bond goes down when interest rates rise , and the value of a bond goes up when interest rates fall . Note that this is only the value if you want to SELL a bond , if you intend to hold it to maturity the value is unchanged . The reason for the change is basically an adjustment to compete with new issues at the current rate . Lets say you have a 10,000 bond that is paying 5 % . That means your yearly return on the bond is $ 500 . Then lets say rates rise to 6 % , and you want to sell the bond . You need to make your bond as attractive to buyers as a new issue , why would someone buy your bond when they could spend the same amount on a new issue and make $ 600 per year ? Or to think of it another way , they could spend $ 8333.33 and get the same $ 500 return as your bond is yielding . So to be competitive with new issues , the selling price of your bond would have to be aprox $ 8333.33 On the other hand , if interest rates fall , then to get the same return , someone would have to invest $ 12500 , making your bond worth more than it 's face value . Those numbers are simplified because they do n't take into account the maturity date of the bond and the face value when the bond matures . The actual fluctuation is less than the above numbers , but I wanted to keep the math simple for the moment to get the concept across . Bond funds face similar pressures . The way to avoid this is to buy and hold bonds to their maturity , when they are paid off at face value . The gain or loss in value does not affect you if you do not sell the bond before maturity .
This is a tax , not a deposit . So no , you will not get it back . You will be able to use your AMT credit , under certain conditions , see the <URL> . Obviously , the actual value of the credit depends on your other items of income , and you may end up never using the whole credit .
No . As a rule , the dividends you see in the distribution table are what you 'll receive before paying any taxes . Tax rates differ between <URL> and unqualified/ordinary dividends , so the distribution ca n't include taxes because tax rates may differ between investors . In my case I hold it in an Israeli account but the tax treaty between our countries still specifies 25 % withheld tax This is another example of why tax rates differ between investors . If I hold SPY too , my tax rate will be very different because I do n't hold it in an account like yours , so the listed dividend could n't include taxes .
For this rollover , there are no restrictions of age/income/etc . You need to know - the transfer must be direct , i.e. if you get a physical check , it should be payable not to you , but to the new custodian ( broker ) for your benefit . Direct is preferable and faster . The assets may not be transferable ' in kind . ' This phrase simply means that you may move the value , but if the assets are not shares that are held by the public , but special 401 ( k ) class shares , they must be liquidated before moving , and moved as cash . This is a risk people with large accounts take should the market move dramatically during the time they are liquidated , and why , for them , I suggest doing it piecemeal .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
<URL> . Travel expenses relating to the attendance at conferences , seminars and other work-related events are deductible to the extent that they relate to your income-producing activities . You will need to apportion your travel expenses where you undertake both work-related and private activities . Travel costs to and from the location of the work-related event will only be deductible where the primary purpose of the travel was to attend the event . Accommodation , food and other incidental costs must be apportioned between work-related and private activities taking into account the types of activities that you did on the day you incurred the cost . You might like to consider in advance what you would tell them if they questioned this - for instance you might say ( if they are true ) : I 've attended similar seminars previously , in other locations I never seriously considered going to Elbonia until after I heard about this seminar The work benefits of this seminar were as follows . . I 've strictly excluded the vacation-related expenses from my claim
Dividends are normally paid in cash , so do n't generally affect your portfolio aside from a slight increase to ' cash ' . You get a check for them , or your broker would deposit the funds into a money-market account for you . There is sometimes an option to re-invest dividends , See Westyfresh 's answer regarding Dividend Re-Investment Plans . As Tom Au described , the dividends are set by the board of directors and announced . Also as he indicated just before the ' record ' date , a stock which pays dividends is worth slightly more ( reflecting the value of the dividend that will be paid to anyone holding the stock on the record date ) and goes down by the dividend amount immediately after that date ( since you 'd now have to hold the stock till the next record date to get a dividend ) In general unless there 's a big change in the landscape ( such as in late 2008 ) most companies pay out about the same dividend each time , and changes to this are sometimes seen by some as ' indicators ' of company health and such news can result in movement in the stock price . When you look at a basic quote on a ticker symbol there is usually a line for Div/yeild which gives the amount of dividend paid per share , and the relative yeild ( as a percentage of the stock price ) . If a company has been paying dividends , this field will have values in it , if a company does not pay a dividend it will be blank or say NA ( depending on where you get the quote ) . This is the easiest way to see if a company pays a dividend or not . for example if you look at this quote for Google , you can see it pays no dividend Now , in terms of telling when and how much of a dividend has been paid , most financial sites have the option when viewing a stock chart to show the dividend payments . If you expand the chart to show at least a year , you can see when and how much was paid in terms of dividends . For example you can see from this chart that MSFT pays dividends once a quarter , and used to pay out 13 cents , but recently changed to 16 cents . if you were to float your mouse over one of those icons it would also give the date the dividend was paid .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
So My question is if I purchased the shares on 03-08-15 then will I get the dividend ? Yes if you purchase on 3-Aug , the shares will actually get credited to your account on 5-Aug and hence you will hold the shares on 6-Aug , the record date .
<URL> ( REITs ) are required by law ( at least in the U.S. ) to maintain a <URL> of at least 90 % . In other words , they are required to pay out at least 90 % of their earnings as dividends . The dividend per share is almost the same as the earnings per share . As a result , the <URL> ( dividends per share / price per share ) is related to the <URL> ( P/E ratio ) . Any REIT that has a favorable dividend yield will also have a favorable P/E ratio . Allow me to explain further , in a different way : Dividend yield = dividend per share / price per share P/E ratio = price per share / earnings per share In a REIT , dividend per share is almost equal to earnings per share . With these three facts , we can see that , for a REIT , the dividend yield and the P/E ratio are related to each other . Using your example , let 's say that you find a REIT with a dividend yield of 5 % . With no further information on the REIT , we know that the P/E ratio will be between 18 and 20 . ( It will be 18 if the REIT is paying out 90 % of the earnings as a dividend , and 20 if the REIT is paying out 100 % of the earnings as a dividend . ) If you find a REIT with a better dividend yield , it will have a better P/E . Let 's say you find one with a dividend yield of 10 % . The P/E ratio for that REIT will be between 9 and 10 . ( A lower P/E ratio is better . )
Does the interest for investing take place after that year 's over with or ' monthly ' in a sense ? It depends on your account . Specifically , how often the interest compounds . Meaning , when the bank calculates and pays it ; then that paid interest becomes part of your principal and included in the next round of calculation , hence " compound " . Monthly is a common schedule . Yearly is rare , despite the fact that interest rates are given as annual percentages . The faster the interest compounds , the better . All else being equal , you will earn more interest by depositing earlier , as long as account interest is paid out with frequency other than once at the end of the year . You miss out on the intra-year payments by delaying your deposit . Over a long period of time , this will end up being a substantial difference .
Though it seems unintuitive , you should rationally ignore the past performance of this stock ( including the fact that it 's at its 52-week high ) and focus exclusively on factors that you believe should affect it moving forward . If you think it 's going to go up even further , more than the return on your other options for where to put the money , keep the stock . If you think it 's peaked and will be going down , now 's a good time to sell . To put it another way : if you did n't already have this stock , would you buy it today ? Your choice is just about the same : you can choose between a sum of cash equal to the present market value of the shares , OR the shares . Which do you think is worth more ? You also mentioned that you only have 10 stocks in the portfolio . Some are probably a larger percentage than others , and this distribution may be different than what you want in your portfolio . It may be time to do some <URL> , which could involve selling some shares where your position is too large ( as a % of your portfolio ) and using the proceeds toward one or more categories you 're not as invested in as you would like to be . This might be a good opportunity to increase the <URL> in your portfolio . If part of your reward and motivation for trading is emotional , not purely financial , you could sell now , mark it as a " win , " and move on to another opportunity . Trading based on emotions is not likely to optimize your future balance , but not everybody is into trading or money for money 's sake . What 's going to help you sleep better at night and help boost your quality of life ? If holding the stock will make you stress and regret a missed opportunity if it goes down , and selling it will make you feel happy and confident even if it still goes up more ( e.g. you interpret that as further confirming that you made a good pick in the first place ) , you might decide that the risk of suboptimal financial returns ( from emotion-based trading ) is acceptable . As CQM points out , you could also set a trailing sell order to activate only when the stock is a certain percentage or dollar amount below whatever it peaks at between the time you set the order and the time it fires/expires ; the activation price will rise with the stock and hold as it falls .
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
Safe deposit boxes are rented out to customers , and their content is not bank 's property . Money deposits are not being taken by the creditors if a bank goes bankrupt , for the same reason - its not bank 's money , it belongs to the depositors . However , frequently banks go bankrupt because they do not have enough cash at hand to pay back the depositors . In this case , unless insured ( up to $ 250K in the US , EUR100K in EU ) , some or all of the deposits may not be immediately ( or even at all ) available . Depositors become creditors of the bank in the bankruptcy proceedings . Safe deposit box , however , is rented to the customer , and the content is not removed by the bank to be used elsewhere , as happens with monetary deposits . So even if the bank is bankrupt and does n't have enough money to cover the monetary deposits , the content of the safe deposit boxes does n't magically disappear , and the owner can get it back . The access to the deposit box itself may be limited due to the bankruptcy , but the content will remain there waiting for its owners . In the United States , when a bank goes bankrupt , FDIC takes over it and its assets . Safe deposit box rental contract is an asset . It is taken over by the FDIC and will be sold to a buyer ( usually as a part of the whole branch where the box is located ) , who will continue operating/servicing it .
In general , it works like this . For ease of explanation , assume that the billing cycle is aligned on month boundaries , and have 10 days from the time you get the bill to when you have to pay . These numbers will vary by credit card , but the concept is the same . Between Jan. 1 and Jan 31 , you charge $ 1000 On Jan 31 , the January billing cycle ends You charge an additional $ 500 on Feb 5 , and nothing more for the rest of the month On Feb. 10 , you receive a bill for January , for $ 1000 , due on Feb. 20 On Feb. 20 , you pay your bill of $ 1000 . On Feb. 28 , the February billing cycle ends On March 10 , you receive a bill for $ 500 , due on March 20 . There would be no interest charged in this scenario . As long as you pay the total amount of each bill by the due date , there is no interest charge . Note that if you continuously charge on your card , it may never have a zero balance , even though you are paying your bill on time .
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
You ca n't buy it outright . You ca n't take the time to save up . if the remaining choice is between a card that charges from day one , and a card with this kind of grace period , the grace card is the better choice . Plan wisely , pay it in full before that rate starts to be charged . One additional note - There are two groups of people , the pay-in-fullers and the balance carriers . I believe that one should pay in full , and never pay interest . A zero rate offer can be used by the balance carrier to feel great for 12 months , but have even more debt after the rate kicks in . As a pay-in-full user , I 've used the zero rate to throw $ 20K at the 5.25 % mortgage , and planned a refinance to 3.5 % just as it ended . a $ 750 savings ( after the tax effect ) well worth the bit of effort . The fees should be in the fine print . My zero rate had a transfer fee , $ 50 max , which was nothing in comparison to the savings .
Yes . What you 're asking about are called <URL> . Sometimes these inverse ETFs are also leveraged to provide 2x , 3x , etc. of the downside . But , beware : An inverse ETF as any leveraged ETF needs to buy when the market rises and sell when it falls in order to maintain a fixed leverage ratio . This results in a volatility loss proportional to the market variance . Compared to a short position with identical initial exposure , the inverse ETF will therefore usually deliver inferior returns . [ ... ] ( Source : Wikipedia . Emphasis mine . ) Inverse ETFs are n't hard to find -- they trade on the same stock exchanges regular ETFs trade on . You should have access through your broker if you can already buy ETFs . If you 're interested in a list of specific inverse ETFs , <URL> . Be careful with these . Some related Q&amp;A here : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Where goes the Delta ? To the sea , of course . Your question is very valid and for once , I think most of the answers are too involved into mechanical details and are badly missing the big picture . At the risk of over simplifying things , let me try to describe the situation in broad strokes : Inflation : the volume of money grows faster than production ( including services ) . Deflation : production increase faster than the volume of money . Imagine an economy with 10 products and $ 10 . 1 product = $ 1 . In an inflationary scenario , money available increase : $ 20 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 2 . In a deflationary scenario , money available decrease : $ 5 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 0.5 . So far , it 's pretty textbook . Now onto the stuff that you do n't usually read in textbooks : Time . Say 10 people are attending an auction , each with $ 10 bucks . 10 items are for sale . $ 100 and 10 items . Item price is $ 10 . Now , if just before opening the bidding , you go around and give each person $ 40 , every one has $ 50 . Each product sells for $ 50 . That 's the picture people have of inflation . Prices have increased , but everybody has more money , so it comes down to the same thing . Now , let 's bring this example closer to reality : You have to distribute $ 400 , so the total amount of money is $ 500 , which means that the normal price of each item should be $ 50 . Now , imagine that instead of giving money to everyone at the same time , you started by giving $ 40 to 1 guy who was hanging out in front . The auction starts . While you go around distributing the money , the first guy manages to buy 2 items at $ 10 each . Now , there is $ 480 in the market , and only 8 items , making each item $ 60 on average . The next guy to get money manages to snap 2 items at $ 15 . 6 items left and $ 450 in play . Each item now costs $ 75 ... and keep increasing in price as things move along . People who get the money early buy items under their real value , and people who get paid at the end pick up the tab , because by then , there are only a few items left . Back to reality , while inflation means that wages eventually increase ( and they do ) , actual purchasing decrease for most people due to this simple trick . Employees are pretty much at the end of the chain . Income tax Another major source of " signal loss " is income tax . It works by brackets , as you certainly know . Simplifying again because I am lazy : Take a guy who earns $ 100 . Pays no taxes . Can buy 100 products at $ 1 each . Now , put in some inflation ... He earns $ 500 . He pays $ 50 in taxes and can buy 90 products at $ 5 each . By the time he earns $ 10,000 , he can only buy 50 products on account of income tax . So this is another area where you are bleeding purchasing power , and why income tax , which was originally presented as a tax for the ultra-rich is now a fact of life for most people ( except the ultra-rich , of course ) . Money as debt Next stop : Money itself . Money is created as debt in our society . At the risk of over-simplifying things again , let 's say Bank A has $ 1000 in assets . In the fractional reserve system ( our current system ) , Bank A can lend out many times over that amount . Let 's say $ 9,000 , for a total of $ 10,000 ( much more in reality ) . And of course , it lends that money at interest . When bank A has made $ 10,000 available through 10 % interest loans , the total amount of money has increased by $ 10,000 , but when the loans are paid back , $ 11,000 must be paid to the bank , so the net result of the operation is that $ 1,000 get taken out of the market . This system explains why almost all companies and governments have huge debts , and why most of the world 's large companies belong to financial institutions of some kind , and why most of the world 's wealth rest in very very few hands . To fully answer your question and provide details and references and names , one would have to write a book or 5 . There is a lot more than can be said on the subject , and of course , all the examples given here are extremely simplified , but I think they illustrate the key issues pretty well . Bottom-line is that our system is designed that way . Our economic system is rigged and the delta bleeds out on automatic .
end question
start question
What is the expected wait for a win from # 100 of Premium Bonds ?
The probability of a single # 1 bond winning a prize in any given month are 1/24000 ( see <URL> - the linked terms and conditions say that a bond unit is # 1 ) . Ignoring the small probability of two or more bonds winning in the same month , that makes the probability of a win in a single month from # 100 of bonds equal to 1/240 . So , at current interest rates , the expected wait is 20 years . However since the probability of winning varies with interest rates , which are currently quite low by historical standards , the real expected wait from now is probably lower .
Most Banks allow to make an international transfer . As the amounts is very small , there is no paperwork required . Have your dad walk into any Bank and request for a transfer . He should be knowing your Bank 's SWIFT BIC , Name and Address and account number . Edit : Under the liberalised remittance scheme , any individual can transfer upto 1 million USD or eq . A CA certificate is required . Please get in touch with your bank in India for exact steps
Be ruthlessly meticulous about the <URL> . If it 's allowed , it 's allowed .
Good question ! It seems to me that there is no minimum order size for shares trading on the LSE . Please note , I could n't find an definite answer , but : According to the " International Order Book " document ( see : <URL> ) from the LSE ( page 7 ) : Question 7 : Would respondents support a revision of the minimum order size of 50 units ? Whilst there was limited support for a low value based minimum order size the majority of respondents requested its complete removal . This was incorporated into the September 2010 quarterly review as per Service Announcement 001/100910 and as from 20 September 2010 , the minimum order size in all IOB securities has been 1 unit Even though not all trading on the LSE is performed on this IOB system , it would be very wierd if the international stocks can be traded in any size , while domestic stocks will have an minimum size . Further , consider looking to the times and sales of various stocks ( here you can find an example <URL> ) . Those trades also suggest that there is no minimum order size ( for example , I just saw an executed trade with an size of 13 ) . At last , look at the Interactive Brokers ( no relationship with ) Exchange List at <URL> . Here you can click on various stock names , and in the popup window that opens , look for ' size parameters ' and the size increment . I could only find stocks with an size increment of 1 ( i.e. you can trade anything with a minimum of 1 stock , and more needs to be in steps of 1 stock ) . Even though I could n't find official information on the LSE site ( like a leaflet for beginners or such ) , it does seem to me that you can trade any size you want on LSE . Please note that mutual funds and illiquid OTC stocks which do n't have an continuous market can have different rules , so double-check with your broker .
This is a gross simplification as there are a few different ways to do this . The principle overall is the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X shares from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X shares but have the proceeds from the sale . If the share price falls you can buy back those shares at the new lower price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk comes when the share price goes the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the shares , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happened a <URL> when Porsche made a fortune buying shares in Volkswagen from short sellers , and the price unexpectedly rose .
I think the tradition within the country would outweigh any convenience it would have for the rest of the world . The US has n't even been able to switch to the Metric system , even though it 's taught in school and used in math / science . The costs involved with changing price tags , and re-organizing everything in their world would be pretty crazy .
If you are n't familiar with <URL> , it 's worth looking at . This is a mechanism using a Canadian brokerage account to simultaneously execute one stock trade in CAD and one in USD . The link I provided claims that it only starts potentially making sense somewhere in the 10,000 + range .
These two items ( social security and taxes ) should have also been withheld from any other positions you held previously . Both these items cover you in the future . Social security when you reach retirement age , or earlier if you are disabled . Medicare to serve a your health insurance when you are a senior citizen . Everybody who has wage income pays the medicare tax , there is no maximum limit . For Social security you pay your share until your wage income hits a specific limit . Both Social security and medicare are split between the employee and the employer . If you are a contractor you get to pay both parts . The rate and limits are set by congressional law , and they can be adjusted by congress . In terms of financial crisis they have actually lowered the rates to help workers . The <URL> gives you the limits for each year : For 2013 , the maximum amount of taxable earnings was $ 113,700 . In 2014 , the maximum amount of taxable earnings is $ 117,000 . If you want to be able to track your earnings and benefits go the the <URL> . Keep in mind that the it will only have your earnings through the previous year .
According to <URL> , this started out as a way to fund health insurance and unemployment insurance , and has gradually increased its scope to cover pensions . At least in part , what you can claim back from these systems is connected to what you paid into them - you ca n't just work one week and then claim 51 weeks of unemployment benefit , or a full pension - which makes them different from taxes . As well , the money collected is not supposed to go into general government revenue , but to be used only for the specific programs it funds . The UK is certainly not the only country where employees and employers send a fraction of each paycheque to the government for purposes other than income tax . Here in Canada we have Employment Insurance and Canada Pension Plan contributions as well as income tax that come off every paycheque . It 's just the way the system works - not everything that the government collects as your income is paid to you is in fact an income tax . There are advantages to all of us to keep these accounts separate - I do n't want my pension money spent on a road by someone who wants to get re-elected 20 years before my pension needs to be paid .
If you received a distribution to buy , build , or rebuild a first home and the purchase or construction was canceled or delayed , you generally can contribute the amount of the distribution to an IRA within 120 days of the distribution . This contribution is treated as a rollover contribution to the IRA . This is from my friend , <URL> . See Page 51 , next to ' TIP ' in second col.
To start , I hope you are aware that the properties ' basis gets stepped up to market value on inheritance . The new basis is the start for the depreciation that must be applied each year after being placed in service as rental units . This is not optional . Upon selling the units , depreciation is recaptured whether it 's taken each year or not . There is no rule of thumb for such matters . Some owners would simply collect the rent , keep a reserve for expenses or empty units , and pocket the difference . Others would refinance to take cash out and leverage to buy more property . The banker is not your friend , by the way . He is a salesman looking to get his cut . The market has had a good recent run , doubling from its lows . Right now , I 'm not rushing to prepay my 3.5 % mortgage sooner than it 's due , nor am I looking to pull out $ 500K to throw into the market . Your proposal may very well work if the market sees a return higher than the mortgage rate . On the flip side I 'm compelled to ask - if the market drops 40 % right after you buy in , will you lose sleep ? And a fellow poster ( @littleadv ) is whispering to me - ask a pro if the tax on a rental mortgage is still deductible when used for other purposes , e.g. a stock purchase unrelated to the properties . Last , there are those who suggest that if you want to keep investing in real estate , leverage is fine as long as the numbers work . From the scenario you described , you plan to leverage into an already pretty high ( in terms of PE10 ) and simply magnifying your risk .
I 'm not familiar with QQQ , but I 'm guessing this is something like IShares Ftse 100 ( see description <URL> )
A 100 % stock dividend means that you get one share of the " stock dividend " for every share you own . For example , Google did this in 2014 when they gave all of their Class A shareholders one class C share for every Class A that they owned . If the 100 % stock dividend is for the exactly the same stock , it is basically the same as a 2-for-1 stock split . If , however , the 100 % stock dividend is to give you a different stock , then this is typically due to a corporate reorganization or demerger/spinoff event . Some countries have different tax treatments for the events - for example , with demergers in Australia , Class Rulings need to be obtained from the Australian Taxation Office to declare demergers as tax free . A recent demerger was in Australia as South32 , demerged from BHP Billiton . References : <URL> <URL>
Short answer The second article you linked to ( on <URL> ) states it best : In forward contracts , the forward price and the delivery price are identical when the contract begins , but as time passes , the forward price will fluctuate and the delivery price will remain constant . In short , the forward price only equals the delivery price the moment the contract is created . After that , they can , and almost certainly will , differ . Long answer My somewhat longer answer to this question addresses each of the three time periods in the life of a forward contract ; the following uses three assumptions/pieces of notation . The delivery price is fixed . The contract matures at time . is just a parameter that represents the current time . Those points look exceedingly basic , and they are . I point them out merely for the sake of completeness . The three key periods are the moment the contract begins ( ) , the life of the contract ( ) , and the contract at maturity ( ) . In each of these periods , different factors affect the forward price , and the implications for the relationship between the forward price and the delivery price are different in each period . Contract begins ( ) : This is the simplest case . Two parties agree on the contract and create it . As the Investopedia article states , the forward price equals the delivery price . Life of the contract ( ) Over the life of the contract , the forward price depends on <URL> , especially the <URL> of the underlying asset . Because constantly-changing factors like supply and demand affect the spot price , the forward price can , in turn , vary considerably over the life of the contract . The same rationale applies for other factors that affect the forward price , like the risk-free interest rate , the cost of carry , etc. . This implies that in this time period , the delivery price is still fixed at the price specified in the contract , but the forward price is fluctuating as the spot price and other values change . In other words , they are n't equal . Contract matures ( ) At maturity , the forward price converges to the spot price of the underlying asset . Investopedia has a <URL> , but a quick explanation is that if these two prices did n't converge , an arbitrage opportunity would exist , and traders would quickly act on this and remove any price differential . Forward contracts are non-standard , however , so it 's completely possible that multiple contracts on the same underlying asset , each specifying a different delivery price , are maturing on the same date ( presumably with different parties and counterparties involved ) . Since there can be multiple delivery prices somewhere in the market , but only one spot price of the underlying asset , these wo n't be equal for all forward contracts maturing on the same date . Therefore , at maturity , the forward price/spot price ( which are now the same ) wo n't necessarily equal the delivery price .
The deadline for each year is June 30th of the next year . So if you became US resident in 2014 - the first FBAR has to be filed by June 30th , 2015 . As with tax returns , FBAR is filed for the previous calendar year .
<URL> has this definition of duration : The duration number is a complicated calculation involving present value , yield , coupon , final maturity and call features . Fortunately for investors , this indicator is a standard data point provided in the presentation of comprehensive bond and bond mutual fund information . The bigger the duration number , the greater the interest-rate risk or reward for bond prices . As for Yield Type , I suspect C would be Coupon bonds while M would be bonds that the interest would be paid at Maturity .
All bonds carry a risk of default , which means that it 's possible that you can lose your principal investment in addition to potentially not getting the interest payments that you expect . Bonds ( in the US anyway ) are graded , so you can manage this risk somewhat by taking higher quality bonds , i.e. in companies or governments that are considered more creditworthy . Regular bank savings ( again specific to the US ) are insured by FDIC , so even if your bank goes bust , the US Government is backing them up to some limit . That makes such accounts less risky . There 's generally no insurance on a bond , even if it is issued by a government entity . If you do your homework on the bond rating system and choose bonds in a rating band where you 're comfortable , this could be a good option for you . You 'll find , however , that the bond market also " knows " that the interest rates are generally low , so be ware that higher interest issues are usually coming from less creditworthy ( and therefore more risky ) issuers . EDIT Here 's some additional information based on the follow-up question in the comment . When you buy a bond you are actually making a loan to the issuer . They will pay you interest over the lifetime of the bond and then return your principal at the end of the term . ( Verify this payment schedule - This is typical , but you should be sure that whatever you 're buying works like this . ) This is not an investment in the value of the issuer itself like you would be making if you bought stock . With stock you are taking an ownership share in the company . This might entitle you to dividends if the company pays them , but otherwise your investment value on a stock will be tied to the performance of the company . With the bond , the company might be in decline but the bond still a good investment so long as the company does n't decline so much that they can not pay their debts . Also , bonds can be issued by governments , but governments do not sell stock . ( An " ownership share of the government " would not make sense . ) This may be the so-called sovereign debt if issued by a sovereign government or it may be local ( we call it municipal here in the US ) debt issued by a subordinate level of government . Bonds are a little bit like stock in the sense that there 's a secondary market for them . That means that if you get partway through the length of the bond and do n't want to hold it , you can sell the bond to someone else . Of course , it will be harder to sell a bond later if the company becomes insolvent or if the interest rates go up between when you buy and when you sell . Depending on these market factors , you might end up with a capital gain or capital loss ( meaning you get more or less than the principal that you put into the bond ) at the time of a sale .
There are no tax consequences when you exchange funds in a tax-deferred account .
100 ounces is the size of one contract , but the quote is in dollars per ounce . See the spec on <URL> and <URL> . Thus , one futures contract is for 100 ounces of gold , at 100 * $ 1174 = $ 117,400 . Similarly , for <URL> , the contract size is 1,000 barrels , but it 's quoted in dollars per barrel . I do n't know why FT shows the contract size for gold , and not for crude oil . The contract size and the amount per quote differ because the the contract size is going to be what makes sense to actually trade . 100 oz is a standard size for gold bars , and people do n't want to take delivery of a single ounce . It 's easier for people to talk about the price of an ounce of gold though , as opposed to an arbitrary amount like 100 oz , which is really more of a detail . You see similar things for options , where it 's quoted as the price per underlying share , but a contract is 100 options . So if a call option trades at $ 2.50 , buying one contract costs $ 250 , and is for 100 shares .
Unless stated otherwise , these terms apply to all bonds . Par value vs purchase price The <URL> or face value of a bond refers to the value of the bond when it 's redeemed at maturity . A bond with a par value of $ 10,000 simply means that if you purchase the bond and hold it until the maturity date specified in the contract , you receive $ 10,000 . The purchase price , however , is exactly that : it 's what you paid for the bond . Bonds may sell below , at , or above par . Continuing the example from above , if you paid $ 9,800 for a bought a bond with a $ 10,000 par value , you bought the bond below par . A bond selling below par is said to be selling at a discount . For bonds selling above bar , they 're selling at a premium . If the purchase price and the par value are the same , the bond is selling at par . Call price and call date These terms apply to <URL> only , which are bond contracts that allow the issuer of the bond ( in the case of municipal bonds , the institution or agency who created the contract ) to buy back from bond holders at a given date ( the call date ) and at a given price ( the call price ) before the bond reaches maturity and pays the holder the full par value . Coupon rate Yes , the <URL> is essentially the interest paid . It 's usually represented as a percent of the par value , so if the $ 10,000 in the example above had a 5 % coupon rate , this means that it paid out 0.05 * 10,000 = $ 500 each year . Usually , this payment is made as two semi-annual payments of $ 250 . Some bonds are <URL> , which means exactly what you would think ; they do n't make any coupon payments . U.S. Treasury Bills are one example of a zero-coupon bond . All of these factors are linked , because the coupon rate , callable provisions , and par value , along with the overall economic environment , can affect the purchase price of a bond .
end question
start question
What ETF or other security tracks closest to 30 year mortgage rates ?
Mortgage rates tend to track the <URL> on the 10-year Treasury note . The <URL> , TNX , is a security directly related to this rate . Divide the CBOE price of TNX by 10 to get the yield . One can also track the 10Y T-Note yield at <URL> using ticker symbol ( ^ TNX ) .
Making the advisable assumption that the quoted interest rate is the effective annual rate , then compounding daily or monthly will make no difference , e.g. . If your interest rate is not the effective rate but a nominal rate you should convert it . See the <URL> . By referring to the effective interest rate , confusion from mixing nominal daily rates and nominal monthly rates can be avoided . ( See also <URL> . ) Next , the main criterion is to match the compounding rate to the deposit frequency . I note you wanted to compare $ 240 weekly vs $ 1,040 monthly . I have just run one calculation for $ 240 monthly , but using the method below it should be straightforward to run your comparison . Based on a similar question <URL> , the annuity can be calculated using the following values : The formula for the future value of an annuity due is See <URL> In an annuity due , a deposit is made at the beginning of a period and the interest is received at the end of the period . This is in contrast to an ordinary annuity , where a payment is made at the end of a period . The formula is derived , <URL> , from the summation of the future values of every deposit . The initial value , with interest accumulated for all periods , can simply be added , as shown . If the interest rate is reduced to 2.9 % after two years it will affect the future value of the periodic deposits like so : This can also be found using the annuity formula : The future value of the $ 12,000 principal will also be affected by the rate change .
This is in the balance sheet , but the info is not usually that detailed . It is safe to assume that at least some portion of the cash/cash equivalents will be in liquid bonds . You may find more specific details in the company SEC filings ( annual reports etc ) .
As I 'm sure you are reading in Hull 's classic , the basic valuation of bonds depends on the chance of entity defaulting on those bonds . Let 's start with just looking at the US . The United States has a big advantage over corporations in issuing debt as it also prints the same currency that the debt is denominated in . This makes it much easier not to default on your debt as you can always print more money to pay it . Printing too much currency would cause inflation lowering the value of debt , but this would also lower the value of US corporate debt as well . So you can think of even the highest rated corporate bonds as having the same rate as government debt plus a little extra due to the additional default risk of the corporation . The situation with other AA rated governments is more complicated . Most of those governments have debt denominated in their local currency as well so it may seem like they should all have similar rates . However , some governments have higher and some actually have lower rates than the United States . Now , as above , some of the difference is due to the possible need of printing too much currency to cover the debt in crisis and now that we have more than one country to invest in the extra risk of international money flowing out of the country 's bonds . However , the bigger difference between AA governments rates depends more on money flow , central banks and regulation . Bonds are still mostly freely traded instruments that respond to supply and demand , but this supply and demand is heavily influenced by governments . Central banks buy up large portions of the debt raising demand and lowering rates . Regulators force banks to hold a certain amount of treasuries perhaps inflating demand . Finally , to answer your question the United States has some interesting advantages partially just due to its long history of stability , controlled inflation and large economy making treasuries valuable as one of the lowest risk investments . So its rates are generally on the low end , but government manipulation can still mean that it is not necessarily the lowest .
After the closing the lender does not matter . Many brokerages who do n't hold the note will sell the note after the closing anyway . The only real issues you should concern yourself with are the lenders responsiveness to help you close quickly and the terms of your loan . Also be proactive and confirm terms and closing documents BEFORE the actual closing . Tell your lender and attorney you want to see documents BEFORE the closing to avoid surprises and have time to confirm that the terms are what you agreed to . Some brokerage lender have a tendency to change some small terms before closing . Other than your terms and responsiveness . Your lenders do n't differ all that much .
Canada and the United States have a tax treaty , meaning that if you are resident in only one country , under most circumstances you would declare income only in the country of residence . The raw information can be found here on the Canadian Department of Finance Web Site : <URL> . The IRS info is here : <URL> The information is very technical . I would recommend that you speak with an accountant , particularly if you 're talking large sums of money . A less technical summary from the US Treasury : <URL>
This <URL> provides answers on how to short US Treasuries . Shorting US Treasuries is a way of betting that yields will rise on US Treasuries . Similar to hedging against rising interest rates .
Its based on demand and supply and what Bank think the future rates would be . Today Banks in India have a liquidity crunch as the Repo Rates by Reserve Bank of India [ Central Bank ] are high . Bank want to encourage more people to deposit money and hence are offering higher rates . Banks also believe that once the Inflation is under control , the Central Bank would ease the repo rates . This is likely to happen in a years time . Hence Banks one year down want to lower the Fixed Deposit rates . So essentially they would be at loss if they give higher rates for longer periods . So they are offering the highest rates for a period of year which motivates more people to invest for a year , even if they want to stay invested for long .
In short , yes . By " forward selling " , you enter into a futures contract by which you agree to trade Euros for dollars ( US or Singapore ) at a set rate agreed to by both parties , at some future time . You are basically making a bet ; you think that the dollar will gain on the Euro and thus you 'd pay a higher rate on the spot than you 've locked in with the future . The other party to the contract is betting against you ; he thinks the dollar will weaken , and so the dollars he 'll sell you will be worth less than the Euros he gets for them at the agreed rate . Now , in a traditional futures contract , you are obligated to execute it , whether it ends up good or bad for you . You can , to avoid this , buy an " option " . By buying the option , you pay the other party to the deal for the right to say " no , thanks " . That way , if the dollar weakens and you 'd rather pay spot price at time of delivery , you simply let the contract expire un-executed . The tradeoff is that options cost money up-front which is now sunk ; whether you exercise the option or not , the other party gets the option price . That basically creates a " point spread " ; you " win " if the dollar appreciates against the Euro enough that you still save money even after buying the option , or if the dollar depreciates against the Euro enough that again you still save money after subtracting the option price , while you " lose " if the exchange rates are close enough to what was agreed on that it cost you more to buy the option than you gained by being able to choose to use it .
The 401K match has limits , but it is not taxable until you withdraw the money from the account . You can think of it as an initial lump of interest or gain . When you leave the company you are allowed to keep it , if you are vested . You can then roll it over into a IRA , or another 401K . When you withdraw money in retirement you will pay taxes on the match and all the gains from the match . Taxes on what you contribute will depend on if it was pre-tax or post-tax , or if it was deposited into a Roth IRA . The amount you deposit pretax is noted on the W-2 , which you attach to the 1040 form . The company match does not appear anywhere on the w-2 or 1040 . It should show on your 401-K statements . Those statements should also tell you how much of the match has been vested .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
The owner of a long futures contract does not receive dividends , hence this is a disadvantage compared to owning the underlying stock . If the dividend is increased , and the future price would not change , there is an arbitrage possibility . For the sake of simplicity , assume that the stock suddenly starts paying a dividend , and that the risk free rate is zero ( so interest does not play a role ) . One can expect that the future price is ( rougly ) equal to the stock price before the dividend announcment . If the future price would not change , an investor could buy the stock , and short a futures contract on the stock . At expiration he has to deliver the stock for the price set in the contract , which is under the assumptions here equal to the price he bought the stock for . But because he owned the stock , he receives the announced dividend . Hence he can make a risk-free profit consisting of the divivends . If interest do play a role , the argument is similar .
In Canada , calculating the capital gain from selling a partial position is done based on average cost , as opposed to using First-In-First-Out ( FIFO ) or other rules distinguishing units based on date acquired . ( e.g. Canada does n't contrast " short-term " vs. " long-term " gains like the U.S. does . ) New units and old units in your non-registered accounts are all considered part of the same position when it comes to figuring the capital gains . The cost per unit you need to calculate to determine your capital gain is known officially as the <URL> , or ACB . From a simplistic perspective -- i.e. where no distributions were received -- the ACB per unit is the average price paid ( including commissions paid to acquire the shares or units . ) From this perspective , and probably incorrect for a mutual fund , your ACB would be : For typical company shares paying typical dividends , the ACB calculation would likely end there , as dividends are not a factor in the gain calculation -- unless you are <URL> . The ACB calculation is more complicated for mutual funds , exchange-traded funds , closed-end-funds , and income trusts , due to the kinds of distributions made by such investment vehicles . Distributions are frequently composed of more than just dividends . Fund distributions often contain components like <URL> ( ROC ) and distributed capital gains , i.e. when the fund itself realizes net gains on transactions in the portfolio and passes them through to you . Return-of-capital distributions reduce your ACB . Capital gain distributions increase your ACB . You do n't want to be taxed twice on distributed gains , so be sure to figure your ACB correctly . You can know if your fund issued those specific kinds of distributions by looking at the tax slips received , checking with the fund company ( e.g. their web site ) , or your broker/advisor . So , imagine if , in your example , you had also received $ 600 worth of distributions , identified as $ 80 dividends , $ 20 " other " income ( e.g. interest ) , $ 450 return-of-capital , and $ 50 capital gains . Then , your ACB per unit would then be : And so if you sold 300 units at $ 10 each , the net gain on the sale would be : ( And your $ 80 dividends and $ 20 " other " income would be taxed separately on your return , at their respective tax rates . ) I hope this helps . Here are some additional resources to check out : <URL> <URL> <URL>
You 'd need to talk with an attorney familiar with Social Security , or an appropriately qualified SSA representative to be sure - but all signs point to the idea that unfortunately Social Security does not work the way your father was told it would . And if he does n't file to receive benefits the reality is actually much worse than " throwing away free money " ! However , this is not due to a complete misunderstanding of the system ! Social Security does work the way he thinks in some instances , just that the rules do n't apply to his exact situation ! First of all , retroactive benefits come in a few forms : <URL> - BEFORE the age of 70 only ! In this method you apply for retirement , but you tell the SSA to suspend/delay your benefits . You are entitled to full lump sum of the payments you deferred ... but at a cost of getting lower monthly benefits permanently ( and that also lowers spousal and dependent children 's benefits , too - if those could apply to your dad ) . But note that at the age of 70 , <URL> , with no lump sum . This is a kind of emergency insurance policy for those who want to try to defer retirement benefits , but who want the opportunity to cash out and get the money they would have been getting " just in case " . You can get <URL> , such as if you wait past your exact retirement age to apply for benefits . But no more : " we can not pay retroactive benefits for any month before you reached full retirement age or more than 6 months in the past " . As for after-death benefits , an estate can only get benefits that were already due to be paid , which generally means a person died and did not get their benefits for that month , so SSA can re-issue a check to the estate <URL> . But as a person can not be due a lump sum payment after age 70 ( for more than 6 months at most ) , the estate will only be able to get at most 1-6 months of payments ( and 6 months is doubtful - you 'll need to ask a lawyer if that much would even be possible ) . If your father was below 70 and wanted to file-and-suspend , the question of lump on death would be more complex and I do n't know that answer - but once you are past 70 this does n't matter any more as you are n't due a lump anymore . What about lawsuits ? Given the above , we 've established pretty clearly that if you do n't claim your benefits within 6 months after age 70 , any months of payment you would have gotten are just forfeited to the system . But if you claim the benefits and stick them in the bank , can they be taken ? Well , if a lawsuit is really a worry , then yes these accumulated funds can required to pay a debt - but this potential for loss can be protected against without forfeiting the benefits entirely ! This is not very common , but if your father does n't need the money now he may be able to deposit some of the money into a special partially-lawsuit protected format of the Roth IRA ( which has no age limits ) <URL> . If he never gets sued , that 's OK - it 's still his money ! If he passes away , the value goes to his estate and does not disappear . And he does n't forfeit any of his earned retirement benefits . It 's Not Free Money - It 's His Money Finally , I would like to share one last thing with you and your father . These benefits are n't free - he has been paying a portion of his paycheck for decades into Social Security , and now he is eligible for the maximum amount of benefits per month that he will qualify for - and if he wants to keep working he loses no benefit and <URL> . That 's up to him . But not filing for benefits now will mean that all this money he 's been paying in for decades will just be lost - they 'll basically just be a tax he 's paid out to other retirees . His estate ( which means you kids ) wo n't get any of it , either . That 'd just be a waste for everyone involved . If you have continued doubts or questions , I would n't hesitate to consult a specialist lawyer or talk with the SSA directly to make sure this is all correct . It 's his money , and he has earned his benefits for many years . I very much hope he gets to enjoy as much of them as he can !
" I asked my realtor , but she recommends to go with just one banker ( her friend ) , and not to do any rate shopping . " You need a new realtor . Anyone who would offer such advice is explicitly stating they are not advocating on your behalf . I 'd do the rate shopping first . When you make an offer , once it 's accepted , time becomes critical . The seller expects you to go to closing in so many days after signing the P&amp;S . The realtor is specifically prohibited from pushing a particular lender on you . She should know better . In response to comment - Rate Shopping can be as simple as making a phone call , and having a detailed conversation . Jasper 's list can be conveyed verbally . Prequalification is the next step , where a bank actually writes a letter indicating they have a high confidence you will qualify for the loan .
The United States prepares a medical care cost index , which can be found at <URL> The following series are valid : CUSR0000SAM ( seasonally adjusted monthly ) , CUUR0000SAM ( not seasonally adjusted monthly ) , and CUUS0000SAM ( not seasonally adjusted semiannually ) I ca n't find a financial product which tracks this ( or another ) medical care cost index specifically , although many products are marketed to track the performance of the health care industry as a whole . Products in the latter category can track indexes such as the MSCI US Investable Market Health Care Index or the Dow Jones U.S. Health Care Index . The industry 's indexes ' behavior may show poor correlation with a medical care costs index 's behavior , however . For example , if medical care costs are stagnant , and if population increases , then one could expect ( all other factors being equal ) that the healthcare industry would be better off , while the costs index would be flat .
Wikipedia has a fairly detailed explanation of ETFs . <URL>
The income and recurring costs will be shown at the end of each year , however the initial cost is recorded at the time they are incurred meaning at t = 0 ( Jan 2014 ) The first net profits/loss of 658500 is recorded at the end of Dec 2014 ( t = 1 ) And the remaining four ones at the end of 2015 ( t = 2 ) 2016 ( t = 3 ) 2017 ( t = 4 ) 2018 ( t = 5 ) -8000000 658500 658500 658500 658500 6658500 t = 0 ) -8000000 t = 1 ) 658500 t = 2 ) 658500 t = 3 ) 658500 t = 4 ) 658500 t = 5 ) 6658500
From what I understand ( I never had an RESP but would consider one for a future child ) , with the right type of withdrawal , you can use the RESP money for anything education related . Basically , know that the RESP is considered to have three compartments within it : ( 1 ) your contributions , ( 2 ) contributions from the government through the <URL> , and ( 3 ) the return on the investment , or accumulated earnings . The government contributes an extra 20 % on top of your contributions annually by way of the CESG , up to a $ 500 max . Tuition As you noted , official tuition fees , reported on a fee slip , is where one large chunk of the RESP will go . This will be pulled out of your original contributions and is known as a Post-Secondary Education ( PSE ) Withdrawal . Different RESP administrators ( bank , discount brokerage , etc ) determine what sort of proof of enrolment would be required , but it ought to be similar between them and different educational institutions . This withdrawal is not taxable by either you or the student , since the contributions were made with after-tax dollars . Educational Assistance Payments ( EAPs ) EAPs are for other expenses that the student would incur by being at university . In the first 13 weeks of studies , you can request up to $ 5000 in EAP withdrawals ( full-time studies , $ 2500 for par-time ) , after which there is no limit . Each EAP payment is made up of the CESG and accumulated earnings portions of the RESP , whose proportions <URL> . This is considered taxable income for the student , or beneficiary , in the year the EAP withdrawal is made . It gets a bit fuzzy here , from my understanding . The student would ostensibly be able to purchase anything that they could rationalize as education-related , and I 'm not sure what sort of proof different banks would need . Maybe just the confirmation of enrolment is enough . This is the part of my post that should directly answer your question which , using this terminology , boils down to what sorts of expenses can I use the EAP withdrawals for ? To this , from what I 've read out there , I would say that you could probably purchase anything . From the student 's point of view , they are enrolled in a qualifying education institution , and if they do n't spend the money on education-related purchases , money required for those purchases will have to come from somewhere else anyway . Other withdrawals Any other type of withdrawal is like walking through a minefield . You can withdraw the original contributions without paying tax on them , but you would need to pay back the corresponding CESG back to the government . Other types of withdrawals would be taxable and may incur a 20 % penalty . I do n't have any more details on that . As I mentioned , this is from what I 've read and looked into for future RESP purposes . A new concept that has popped up is RESP vs TFSA . The TFSA provides the same tax shelter ( after-tax dollar contributions , no tax on the gains ) , but also allows for no tax on the withdrawals . To add to that , the TFSA withdrawals are tax-free as well . The main benefit that the RESP offers that the TFSA does n't is the CESG . My current opinion ( and I could be wrong ) is that you should contribute $ 2500 annually to the RESP in order to get the $ 500 max CESG , and anything else that you 'd like to contribute should go in a TFSA . But I digress . Hopefully my long-winded response makes some sense . Enjoy .
To get a good estimate , go <URL> or other similar sites and see . But basically , yes , you can save yourself a whole lot of money just by paying extra every month . One note though , do make sure you are specifying that you want the money to go towards principal , not escrow or toward prepaying interest .
end question
start question
How do you Record Revenue from ads ?
You can invoice your advertisers and use the date of the invoice for tax purposes . Some advertisers may want to pay monthly , weekly etc so that would require multiple entries as income on the relevant dates .
The fact that the option is deep in the money will be reflected in the market price of the option so you can just sell it at a profit . If there 's a ( n almost ) guaranteed profit to be had , however , you can always find someone who will lend you the money to cover the exercise ... they 'll charge you interest , however !
In short no you ca n't max out your contributions for the year and then switch to another non HSA plan or drop insurance altogether . You can contribute 1/12 of your contribution limit for each month you have a qualified HSA plan . The only exception is for December if you have a qualified HSA plan December 1st you can take the entire years worth of contributions , but in order to do so and not be penalized you must remain in an HSA plan for at least 1 year . You should keep this in mind if you have had your HSA plan for less than a year and maxed out your 2010 contribution . You would be advised to look at Pub 969 <URL>
Credit ratings are the same as credit score , but they very different from a credit report . A credit score is a calculated number based on a usually secret formula that attempts to quantify with math a consistent number that ranks everybody equally and uniformly as to the risk they present to a lender . Basically , we are all just a number ; the higher the better . Your credit report is a detailed list of all your accounts , how well you pay them and if you are behind or have settled them as agreed . It is a detailed history of how you use credit , who you have credit from , how long you have had credit , and how much credit and debt you carry . A credit report relies on lenders honestly and accurately stating how your account is performing with them . Some radio show hosts ( Clark Howard ) say that up to 70 % of United States citizens have a mistake on their credit reports . The credit report is the source of values that are computed into your credit score . By and large , your credit score gives a lender a good idea if you are acceptable , but if you number is on the line , they MIGHT choose to read your credit report to make a decision by a human . Your credit score is how retail stores can offer and immediately approve store cards . If you number is high enough , credit you get . Source : <URL> EDIT : I did n't read well the first time , but sine I typed it I will leave it here . Sorry for rushing and not reading well .
Since you are asking about mortgages let 's assume the rates you quote are nominal interest rates compounded monthly and the mortgage repayments are monthly . The following loan formula can be used : - <URL> where Taking a monthly rate , , the total repayments for the 5 year mortgage are : - The total repayments for the 4 year mortgage are : - To find the monthly rate , , that makes the 4 year mortgage cost the same as the 5 year mortgage the following equation is solved : - giving and a nominal rate compounded monthly : The 4 year mortgage is less costly than the 5 year 3 % mortgage at any nominal rate below 3.73545 % . Alternative calculation using AER If the rates you quoted were annual equivalent rates [ 1 . ] and repayments are still monthly the calculation is slightly different . <URL> Running the 5 year and 4 year calculations : - giving and an annual equivalent rate : Adjusting for inflation A fixed payment in the future will effectively cost less due to wage inflation so an adjustment for inflation can be made . Using the mortgage figures calculated for AER rates and taking inflation as 2 % AER , then the monthly inflation rate is and the adjusted totals are : - So we can see adjusting for inflation closes the gap between the 4 year and the 5 year mortgage from 3915.87 to 1753.08 : - Now the break-even rate for the 4 year mortgage can be found by solving which finds So the annual equivalent rate is Check $ 204,919 is the same as the inflation-adjusted present cost of the 5 year mortgage . So , adjusting for wage inflation at 2 % AER , the 4 year mortgage is less costly than the 5 year 3 % AER mortgage at any rate below 3.24212 % AER .
Congratulations on deciding to save for retirement . Since you cite Dave Ramsey as the source of your 15 % number , what does he have to say about where to invest the money ? If you want to have instantaneous penalty-free access to your retirement money , all you need to do is set up one or more ordinary accounts that you think of as your retirement money . Just be careful not to put the money into CDs since Federal law requires a penalty of three months interest if you cash in the CD before its maturity date ( penalty ! ) or put the money into those pesky mutual funds that charge a redemption fee ( penalty ! ) if you take the money out within x months of investing it where x can be anywhere from 3 to 24 or more . In Federal tax law ( and in most state tax laws as well ) a retirement account has special privileges accorded to it in that the interest , dividends , capital gains , etc earned on the money in your retirement account are not taxed in the year earned ( as they would be in a non-retirement account ) , but the tax is either deferred till you withdraw money from the account ( Traditional IRAs , 401ks etc ) or is waived completely ( Roth IRAs , Roth 401ks etc ) . In return for this special treatment , penalties are imposed ( in addition to tax ) if you withdraw money from your retirement account before age 59.5 which presumably is on the distant horizon for you . ( There are some exceptions ( including first-time home buying and extraordinary medical expenses ) to this rule that I wo n't bother going into ) . But You are not required to invest your retirement money into such a specially privileged retirement account . It is perfectly legal to keep your retirement money in an ordinary savings account if you wish , and pay taxes on the interest each year . You can invest your retirement money into municipal bonds whose interest is free of Federal tax ( and usually free of state tax as well if the municipality is located in your state of residence ) if you like . You can keep your retirement money in a sock under your mattress if you like , or buy a collectible item ( e.g. a painting ) with it ( this is not permitted in an IRA ) , etc. . In short , if you are concerned about the penalties imposed by retirement accounts on early withdrawals , forgo the benefits of these accounts and put your retirement money elsewhere where there is no penalty for instant access . If you use a money management program such as Mint or Quicken , all you need to do is name one or more accounts or a portfolio as MyRetirementMoney and voila , it is done . But those accounts/portfolios do n't have to be retirement accounts in the sense of tax law ; they can be anything at all .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
Think about your priorities in life . Everybody is a little different . In my case I have a wife and child , so these are priorities for me , and you might have your own depending on your story . I need a place for my family to live I need my family to be able to eat I need a clothes for my family to wear . So if I lost my job , and I have no more money coming in ( unemployment insurance runs out , savings depleted ) then the bank can have the house . I personally would probably drop the house long before it came to that point . The first thing you do is talk to your creditors and work out a deal . At the same time I would stop paying for ALL unnecessary things ( cable TV , extra cell phones , automobiles , leaving light bulbs on and turning the heat up over putting on a sweater ) . If I ca n't get a good deal from the creditors , I would stop paying the mortgage , find a place to live ( family , friends , cheap apartment ) while the credit is still good . My advice is to get yourself setup while your credit is good and you have SOME money in the bank . Waiting until the bank decides to foreclose is probably going to make your harder .
It does make sense to combine debts and pay off the worst ( highest interest rate ) . However , if you ca n't get any loan , you should focus on the worst debt and pay that off . Then take the same amount of money you were paying to the next worse debt , and so on until you 're clean . Let 's look at an example . Debt A is at 5 % , Debt B is at 10 % and Debt C is at 15 % . You are paying AB and C. On a monthly basis , you save 100 $ to pay off C . Once C is payed off , you keep on saving 100 $ and add whatever you were paying to Debt C to those savings . This way , you can pay off Debt B at an increased rate . When B is cleared , you save 100 $ + whatever you were paying to Debt B and Debt C to clear Debt A. That 's the theory .
" It 's more complicated than that . " Governments raise money in a number of ways . First , they tax economic activity within their borders and for connected companies and individuals . Then , some governments have actual revenues from state-owned enterprises ( licences , patents , courts , business revenues , and so on ) . Whatever shortage arises between state expenditure and this income is the deficit which is usually financed through debt . Government usually issues a bond ( <URL> ) of various types , some with extremely lengthy maturation dates . These bonds can be purchased both locally and by foreign investment funds . The nature of who buys is important . From the Wikipedia link you 'll see that most government debt is very highly rated based on the ability of the state to simply raise taxes in order to fund redemption . Pension funds are legally bound to only invest in highly-rated investment classes and the bulk of bonds may be purchased to support local pensioners . A state that defaults on debt will first hit its own most vulnerable citizens . In addition , the fall-out will result in a savage cut in ratings . Countries like Argentina and Zimbabwe , which have both refused to repay their debts even to the IMF , are currently unable to raise investment at all . This has a tremendous impact on local economic development . So , default is out of the question without severe penalties . The second part of your question is about paying down the debt . As debts increase , more and more of the revenue that a country does earn is spent on servicing debt repayments . Sometimes bonds are issued merely to refinance old debt . A country that spends too much on refinancing debt is no different from an individual . Less and less money is available to do other things . In conclusion : governments can neither default nor binge-borrow unless they wish to severely limit economic opportunities for their citizens .
I have a very hard time believing you pay 60 % of gross . Otherwise , I believe you 're right in the way this works : Suppose you make $ 100k and pay 25 % of that in taxes . 100,000 * .25 = 25,000 But if you spend $ 1,000 pretax , then it 's as if you were paid $ 99,000 99,000 * .25 = $ 24,750 So the difference is $ 250 . Which is the same as that $ 1,000 * .25 .
There are two scenarios to determine the relevant date , and then a couple of options to determine the relevant price . Relevant Date If the stocks were purchased in your name from the start - then the relevant date is the date of the purchase . If the stocks were willed to you ( i.e. : you inherited them ) , then the relevant date is the date at which the person who willed them to you had died . How to figure out You can check with the company if they have records of the original purchase . If it was in " street name " - they may not have such records , and then you need to figure out what broker it was to hold them . Figuring the price Once you figured out the relevant date , contact the company 's " investor relationships " contact and ask them for the adjusted stock price on that date ( adjusted for splits/mergers/acquisitions / whatever ) . That would be the cost basis per share you would be using . Alternatively you can research historical prices on your favorite financial information site ( Google/Yahoo/Bloomberg or the stock exchange where the company is listed ) . Last Resort If you can not figure the cost basis , or it costs too much - you can just write cost basis as $ 0 , and claim the whole proceeds as gains . You 'll pay capital gains tax on the whole amount , but that may end up being cheaper than conducting the investigation to reveal the actual numbers .
Here is an IRS <URL> covering records retention The publication covers many areas , including proof of income , bank statements , old tax returns . There is a table that talks about how long to keep the records . In general it is 3 to 6 years . But for property it is 3 to 6 years after you dispose of the property .
From what I understand , the answer is no . Banking systems and credit reporting services are different from country to country , each has their own rules and way of doing things , and I 'm under the impression that neither really talks to one another except in the case of sending money ( in which case there are other things involved , the least of which being conversion ) . Note that , although not the greatest example , as an American living in Japan , the banks here are totally different than those in the States . Banks in one location know nothing of my credit rating in the other , and moreover would not trust it or even care . ( Multinational banks like Citibank may be an exception though and is worth looking into . )
Sometimes 403b 's contain annuities or other insurance related instruments . I know that in many New York schools the local teacher unions administer the 403b plan , and sometimes choose proprietary investments like variable annuities or other insurance products . In New York the Attorney General sued and settled with the state teacher 's union for their endorsement of a high cost ING 403b plan -- I believe the maintenance fees were in excess of 3 % / year ! In a tax deferred plan like a 401k , 403b or 457 plan , the low risk " insurance fund " is generally a GIC " Guaranteed Investment Contract " . A GIC ( aka " Stable Value Fund " ) is sort of cross between a CD and a Money Market fund . It 's used by insurance companies to raise short term capital . GICs usually yield a premium versus a money market and are a safe investment . If your wife is in a 403b with annuities or other life-insurance tie ins other than GICs , make sure that you understand the fee structure and ask lots of questions .
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
Typically if the company is so out of whack that it 's liquidating , it wo n't have assets to even cover all its debts never mind enough to return anything back to owners . If there was any shot of the company continuing as an ongoing concern it would file an 11 and reorganize .
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
You do n't have to use an agent ( broker , as you call it ) , but it is strongly advised . In some counties lawyers are required , in some not . Check your local requirements . Similarly the escrow companies that usually deal with recording and disbursing of money . You will probably not be able to get a title insurance without using an escrow service ( I 'm guessing here , but it makes sense to me ) . You will not be able to secure financing through a bank or a mortgage broker without an escrow company , and it might be hard without an agent . Agents required by law to know all the details of the process , and they can guide you through what to do and what to look into . They have experience reading and understanding the inspection reports , they know what to demand from the seller ( disclosures , information , etc ) , they know how and from where to get the HOA docs and disclosures , and can help you negotiate the price knowing the market information ( comparable sales , comparable listings , list vs sales statistics , etc ) . It is hard to do all that alone , but if you do - you should definitely get a discount over the market price of the property of about 5 % ( the agents ' fees are up to 5 % mostly ) . I bought several properties in California and in other states , and I would n't do it without an agent on my side . But if you trust the other side entirely and willing to take the risk of missing a step and having problems later with title , mortgage , insurance or resale , then you can definitely save some money and do it without an agent , and there are people doing that .
Maybe just put all his correspondence back in the Post Box and mark it " Wrong address " ? Precisely . Without opening . Just tell the postman that that person does n't live there and have it returned to sender . The Revenue will figure it out . Most definitely do not accept any certified or registered mail not addressed to you personally .
end question
start question
What do the points in a stock market index epresent ?
The All Ords Index consists of the 500 largest companies by market capitalisation listed on the Australia Stock Exchange . Each stock in the All Ords . Index is given a weighting based on its market capitalisation . As the price of the stocks within the All Ords . Index change , so does the points on the index itself . The Index is more sensitive to changes in the larger capitalised stocks due to their larger weighting in the Index . Example : If a company has a weighting of 10 % and its price goes up by 10 % , and all other stocks in the Index do n't go up or down , then this will cause the All Ords Index to go up by 1 % ( 10 % of 10 % ) .
When a delisting happens , the primary process involves , the firm or the entity , trying to buy everyone out so that they can take the firm private by delisting from the stock exchanges . As the firm wants to buy everyone out , the current owners of the equity have the upper hand . They would n't want to sell if they believe the firm has a brighter future . So to compensate the existing holders , the buyer needs to compensate the current holders of any future loss , so they pay a premium to buy them out . Hence the prices offered will be more than the current existing price . And in anticipation of a premium the stocks price rises on this speculation . The other scenario is if the current holder ( s ) decide no to sell their holdings and are small in number , dependent on exchange regulations , and the buyer manages to de-list the stock , the holders might loose out i.e. they have to find another buyer who wants to buy which becomes difficult as the liquidity for the stock is very minimal . if any stock is DE-listed and then we can not trade on it , In India if the promoters capital is more than 90 % , he can get the stock de-listed . There is a process , he has to make an open offer at specified price to minority shareholders . The minority shareholder can refuse to sell . Once the stock is de-listed , it means it can not be traded on a given exchange . However you can still sell / buy by directly finding a buyer / seller and it 's difficult compared to a listed stock .
He is wrong . Using Total Return ( Reinvesting Dividend ) , from the peak in December 1999 , it only took 6 years to recover . You can check the data for free <URL> . Make sure you choose " Gross Index Level " . ACWI Index is Developed Markets + Emerging Markets . World Index is Developed Markets only .
The stock should fall by approximately the amount of the dividend as that is what is paid out . If you have a stock trading at $ 10/share and it pays a $ 1/share dividend , the price should drop to $ 9 as what was trading before the dividend was paid would be both the dividend and the stock itself . If the person bought just for the dividend then it would likely be neutral as there is n't anything extra to be gained . Consider if this was n't the case . Would n't one be able to buy a stock a few days before the dividend and sell just after for a nice profit ? That does n't make sense and is the reason for the drop in price . Similarly , if a stock has a split or spin-off there may be changes in the price to reflect that adjustment in value of the company . If I give you 2 nickels for a dime , the overall value is still 10 cents though this would be 2 coins instead of one . Some charts may show a " Dividend adjusted " price to factor out these transactions so be careful of what prices are quoted .
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Market cap is basically the amount of money that it would cost to buy all of the shares of public stock in a company . Or share cost * number of outstanding shares . It is a measure of how much a company is worth . <URL>
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
In general , a warrant is a security issued by a company allowing the holder to purchase a certain number of a particular class of shares at a certain price for a particular period of time . They differ from exchange traded options ( i.e. calls and puts ) in that they are issued by the company that issued the underlying shares that they allow you to purchase whereas calls and puts are generally written by other investors . The other big difference between options and warrants is that options are standardized . Any call or put you buy on a particular exchange has basically the same set of rules governing use . By contrast , a warrant may have all kinds of stipulations that must occur before you can execute , such as price events ( e.g. only if the stock hits a certain price ) or business events ( e.g. only if the company elects to defer payment on a bond issued at the same time as the warrant ) . Warrants are generally a bad choice for small and inexperienced investors since each warrant issue is different and you often need a lawyer or other qualified professional to fully understand all to possible outcomes .
When you want to short a stock , you are trying to sell shares ( that you are borrowing from your broker ) , therefore you need buyers for the shares you are selling . The ask prices represent people who are trying to sell shares , and the bid prices represent people who are trying to buy shares . Using your example , you could put in a limit order to short ( sell ) 1000 shares at $ 3.01 , meaning that your order would become the ask price at $ 3.01 . There is an ask price ahead of you for 500 shares at $ 3.00 . So people would have to buy those 500 shares at $ 3.00 before anyone could buy your 1000 shares at $ 3.01 . But it 's possible that your order to sell 1000 shares at $ 3.01 never gets filled , if the buyers do n't buy all the shares ahead of you . The price could drop to $ 1.00 without hitting $ 3.01 and you will have missed out on the trade . If you really wanted to short 1000 shares , you could use a market order . Let 's say there 's a bid for 750 shares at $ 2.50 , and another bid for 250 shares at $ 2.49 . If you entered a market order to sell 1000 shares , your order would get filled at the best bid prices , so first you would sell 750 shares at $ 2.50 and then you would sell 250 shares at $ 2.49 . I was just using your example to explain things . In reality there wo n't be such a wide spread between the bid and ask prices . A stock might have a bid price of $ 10.50 and an ask price of $ 10.51 , so there would only be a 1 cent difference between putting in a limit order to sell 1000 shares at $ 10.51 and just using a market order to sell 1000 shares and getting them filled at $ 10.50 . Also , your example probably would n't work in real life , because brokers typically do n't allow people to short stocks that are trading under $ 5 per share . As for your question about how often you are unable to make a short sale , it can sometimes happen with stocks that are heavily shorted and your broker may not be able to find any more shares to borrow . Also remember that you can only short stocks with a margin account , you can not short stocks with a cash account .
No . You should only donate appreciated stock . If you own a stock at a loss , you can only deduct the <URL> ( fair market value ) when you donate . Instead , you should sell it , take the loss on your taxes , and donate the cash .
See the FTSE Volatility Index . You can see the current index on the Bloomberg site ( just one place of many to read it ) : <URL> You can find background info on what brought the index about , and how to read it , here : <URL> FTA : " Market participants consider volatility indices to work like a barometer ; a high value translates to a greater degree of underlying index turbulence ; a low value is consistent with greater stability . "
Here are a couple of articles that can help highlight the differences between a broker and an online investment service , which seems to be part of the question that you 're asking . Pay attention to the references at the end of this link . <URL> Investopedia also highlights some of the costs and benefits of each side , broke and online investment services . <URL> To directly answer your question , a broker may do anything from using a website to making a phone call to submitting some other form of documentation . It is unlikely that he is talking directly to someone on the trading floor , as the volume traded there is enormous .
Not all limit orders add liquidity , but all market orders remove liquidity presuming there is liquidity to remove . A liquidity providing order is one that is posted to the limit book . If an order , even a limit order , is filled before being posted to the limit book , it removes liquidity . Liquidity is measured by a balance and abundance of quantities posted on the limit book and the best spread between the lowest ask and the highest bid .
I would disagree with your analysis . To me there are two purposes for a money market ( MM ) : Emergency Fund Pre-purchase money parking fund Your emergency fund should be from 3 to 6 months of expenses . Think of it of an insurance policy against Murphy . You may want to have some money designated for big expenses , or even sinking funds . For example , I keep some money in a MM for a car as both the wife , daughter , and I driver older vehicles . I may need to replace them . If you were planning on making a larger purchase car , house , boat , engagement ring I would put the money in a MM fund so you are not subject to the whims of the market . After that you are free to invest all your money . Its likely that you should have some money outside of tax advantaged funds so if you want to start a business you will not have to do high cost withdrawals .
WilliamKF explained it pretty well , but I want to put it in a more simplistic form : Stock : You own certain part of the company . The value of the stock derives from the value of the company . Bond : You lend money to the company . Company owes you money , but you do n't own a part in it . The value of the bond derives from the current rates , remaining payments on the loan , and company 's ability to make them .
If you 're investing for the long term your best strategy is going to be a buy-and-hold strategy , or even just buying a few index funds in several major asset classes and forgetting about it . Following " market conditions " is about as useful to the long term trader as checking the weather in Anchorage , Alaska every day ( assuming that you do n't live in Anchorage , Alaska ) . Let me suggest treating yourself to a subscription to <URL> and read it once a week . You 'll learn a lot more about investing , economics , and world trends , and you wo n't be completely in the dark if there are major structural changes in the world ( like gigantic housing bubbles ) that you might want to know about .
There still is some buying and selling to do in a passively-managed fund . The stocks might pay dividends . If the fund manager did n't reinvest these dividends , the fund would begin to accumulate a cash position , which would cause it to stray from being an index fund . Stocks come and go from an index as well ; if the fund is to maintain a composition that matches a particular index , this must be taken into account as well . The role of the manager is to ensure that the fund maintains the composition that it was intended to replicate . It does n't involve as much " stock picking " that active managers do . The manager has less leeway as to what s/he buys and sells , but there still is work involved .
Summary When you invest in an S&amp;P 500 index fund that is priced in USD , the only major risk you bear is the risk associated with the equity that comprises the index , since both the equities and the index fund are priced in USD . The fund in your question , however , is priced in EUR . For a fund like this to match the performance of the S&amp;P 500 , which is priced in USD , as closely as possible , it needs to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . If the fund simply converted EUR to USD then invested in an S&amp;P 500 index fund priced in USD , the EUR-priced fund may fail to match the USD-priced fund because of exchange rate fluctuations . Why hedging is important Here is a simple example demonstrating why hedging is necessary . I assumed the current value of the USD-priced S&amp;P 500 index fund is 1,600 USD/share . The exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR . If you purchase one share of this index using EUR , you would pay 1230.77 EUR/share : If the S&amp;P 500 increases 10 % to 1760 USD/share and the exchange rate remains unchanged , the value of the your investment in the EUR fund also increases by 10 % ( both sides of the equation are multiplied by 1.1 ) : However , the currency risk comes into play when the EUR/USD exchange rate changes . Take the 10 % increase in the price of the USD index occurring in tandem with an appreciation of the EUR to 1.4 USD/EUR : Although the USD-priced index gained 10 % , the appreciation of the EUR means that the EUR value of your investment is almost unchanged from the first equation . For investments priced in EUR that invest in securities priced in USD , the presence of this additional currency risk mandates the use of a hedge if the indexes are going to track . The fund you linked to uses <URL> , which I discuss in detail below , to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . Since these derivatives are n't free , the cost of the hedge is included in the expenses of the fund and may result in differences between the S&amp;P 500 Index and the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index . Also , it 's important to realize that any time you invest in securities that are priced in a different currency than your own , you take on currency risk whether or not the investments aim to track indexes . This holds true even for securities that trade on an exchange in your local currency , like ADR 's or GDR 's . I wrote an <URL> that goes through a simple example in a similar fashion to the one above in that context , so you can read that for more information on currency risk in that context . Process of hedging There are several ways to investors , be they institutional or individual , can hedge against currency risk . <URL> offers an ETF that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index and uses a over-the-counter currency swap contract called a <URL> to hedge against the associated currency risk . In these contracts , two parties agree to swap some amount of one currency for another amount of another currency , at some time in the future . This allows both parties to effectively lock in an exchange rate for a given time period ( a month in the case of the iShares ETF ) and therefore protect themselves against exchange rate fluctuations in that period . There are other forms of <URL> , <URL> , etc. that could be used to hedge against currency risk . In general , two parties agree to swap one quantity , like a EUR cash flow , payments of a fixed interest rate , etc. for another quantity , like a USD cash flow , payments based on a floating interest rate , etc. . In many cases these are over-the-counter transactions , there is n't necessarily a standardized definition . For example , if the European manager of a fund that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index is holding euros and wants to lock in an effective exchange rate of 1.4 USD/EUR ( above the current exchange rate ) , he may find another party that is holding USD and wants to lock in the respective exchange rate of 0.71 EUR/USD . The other party could be an American fund manager that manages a USD-price fund that tracks the FTSE . By swapping USD and EUR , both parties can , at a price , lock in their desired exchange rates . Final note I want to clear up something else in your question too . It 's not correct that the " S&amp;P 500 is completely unrelated to the Euro . " Far from it . There are many cases in which the EUR/USD exchange rate and the level of the S&amp;P 500 index could be related . For example : Troublesome economic news in Europe could cause the euro to depreciate against the dollar as European investors flee to safety , e.g. invest in Treasury bills . However , this economic news could also cause US investors to feel that the global economy wo n't recover as soon as hoped , which could affect the S&amp;P 500 . If the euro appreciated against the dollar , for whatever reason , this could increase profits for US businesses that earn part of their profits in Europe . If a US company earns 1 million EUR and the exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR , the company earns 1.3 million
The All Ords Index consists of the 500 largest companies by market capitalisation listed on the Australia Stock Exchange . Each stock in the All Ords . Index is given a weighting based on its market capitalisation . As the price of the stocks within the All Ords . Index change , so does the points on the index itself . The Index is more sensitive to changes in the larger capitalised stocks due to their larger weighting in the Index . Example : If a company has a weighting of 10 % and its price goes up by 10 % , and all other stocks in the Index do n't go up or down , then this will cause the All Ords Index to go up by 1 % ( 10 % of 10 % ) .
Trying to " time the market " is usually a bad idea . People who do this every day for a living have a hard time doing that , and I 'm guessing you do n't have that kind of time and knowledge . So that leaves you with your first and third options , commonly called lump-sum and dollar cost averaging respectively . Which one to use depends on where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . Dollar cost averaging ( DCA ) has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a trade-off . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up , which is especially true with an index fund ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
end question
start question
How to create a college savings account for a kid without his mom being able to tap into it ?
A 529 has a custodian and beneficiary . If , say , my Mom is custodian and my daughter the beneficiary , neither my daughter , my wife , nor I can access this account . In fact , if my daughter chooses not to attend college , Mom can change beneficiaries . So , a 529 is ideal for what you have described . By the way , your wife may have broken the law . Money in your child 's name/SSN can not simply be taken from the account at a parent 's whim . You have every right to ask for an accounting of that money and insist she return it to your child 's account . Edit - I was going to add that UTMA money may only be spent for the benefit of the child , and not for day to day items , food , clothing , etc. . The article <URL> provides a bit of support to my position on that .
" myRA " is a name for a proposal Obama made to make IRA more accessible to people who are employed but do n't have access to the traditional employer-sponsored retirement plans . However , other than making IRA more accessible - there 's nothing in that plan that does n't exist already . You can open IRA yourself and deposit money there yourself . The only thing " myRA " proposal adds is an ability to deduct money automatically from your paycheck and deposit it into your IRA without you doing it manually . Bottom line - it is just a proposal , not an existing program , that makes things you 're already doing easier for people who are not doing it yet .
To be in a health savings account you must be in a high deductible health plan , but the advantage is that the money rolls over from year to year if you do n't use it , but it can only be used for qualified medical expenses . A flexible spending account has its advantage as well : You can use it for dependent care as well as medical expenses , but it 's part of a cafeteria plan and you lose the money that you do n't spend by the end of the year ( rather than it simply rolling over to the next ) . Another benefit in a FSA is that if you allocate 200/mo to it , and you need to get surgery in January that costs 2400 dollars and then you lose your job in February , you just got 2400 dollars of surgery for 200 dollars pre-tax :) In summary : Move to France for real health care :) just kidding
The purpose of the transfer determines the taxability . If this is happening to frequent , it is advisable to keep proper records of the transaction so that if there is an enquiry from Tax authorities you can explain . Unless you explain the why the transfer is being made , I have put out some broad categories . Transfering the Money to you as Loan with expectation of repayment in future date . This is not taxable to you . When you transfer back the money to your friend the interest will be taxed to him as income . Proper paperwork required to be maintained with you to answer any queries to Tax Authorities . Transfering the Moeny to you as repayment of Loan . I.E. Your friend had borrowed from you and is repaying you . The interest is taxable to you . Proper paperwork required to be maintained with you to answer any queries to Tax Authorities . Sharing of Expense . i.e. you have both out of dinner / movie / renting an apartment and he is transfering his share of Expenses . No Tax obligation . Paper work required to justify that it was an shared expense . Receipts etc. . In absence of any of the above , the transfer will be termed as GIFT from you friend . There is an yearly limit of Rs 50,000 / - as Gift from Unrelated persons . Anything above that would have Gift Tax As Victor pointed out in comment , if its in return for work , then its definately your income and taxable .
No , in your situation it is not possible . Mostly , only three types of accounts are available to individuals : Savings ( Resident ) : You need to be in India to get this account . For identification , either only passport ( Indian passport ; or foreign passport with Indian work visa ) is required , or few other types of address and identity proofs are must . Maybe a foreigner living in India can get this , as anybody who lives in India for minimum 182 days in a financial year , is Indian resident for tax purposes . Obviously the ones on tourist visa can not stay that long , unless they are of Indian origin . NRE ( Non Resident ) . Any Indian citizen who is NOT in India for minimum 182 days in a year , is eligible to open this account . If he moves out , he is supposed to convert resident account to this or NRO . Money can come in only from outside India . You can spend this money freely in India . As of today there is no tax , and you can take the money out of India without any issues . NRO ( Non Resident ) same as above , except money can only come from inside India , there is a 30 % tax , and upper ceiling for repatriation of money . So , a complete foreigner can open account in India , only if he is working in India , a type of Savings account , and that account too will be linked to his resident status . If he leaves work , he needs to close this account . Edit : There are business accounts , and current accounts , but those are available only to businesses . Further read at <URL>
Any institution that issues checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the passive side . Any institution that clears checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the originating side . Not any institution that can be - in fact is . Your credit union does n't provide this service because they do n't want to . It costs them money to implement and support it , but they do n't see the required benefit to justify it . They can . My credit union does that .
The key is that you need to use your debit card to earn the higher interest rate . The bank can offer a higher interest rate on accounts connected with a debit card because : They earn additional income through debit card fees charged towards account holders , among other things . They offer the higher interest rate specifically to encourage people to use their debit cards . By offering a joint checking/savings account that requires you to use your debit card , the bank is assuming that you 'll keep more money in your account than you would in a standard checking-only account . Your higher balance translates into more money the bank can loan out or invest , which usually leads to higher profit for them . <URL> These fees represent another source of profit for the bank . The more you use your debit card , the more the bank earns in fees , so the bank encourages you to use your debit card more frequently through incentives like a higher interest rate or waiving fees on your account if you use your card enough . Plus , since it 's likely that an individual who maintains a fairly high balance in an account linked to a debit card is going to spend more ( simply because they can spend more ) , banks will sometimes waive fees on the consumer side for balances over a certain amount .
Assuming you are paying into and eligible to collect regular Employment Insurance benefits for the job in question , I do n't see how owning a side business would , by itself , affect your ability to participate in the workshare program . Many people own dormant businesses ( $ 0 revenue / $ 0 income ) , or businesses with insignificant net income ( e.g. a small table at the flea market , or a fledgling web-site with up-front costs and no ad revenue , yet ;-) I think what matters is if your side business generated income substantial enough to put you over a certain threshold . Then you may be required to repay a portion of the EI benefits received through the workshare program . On this issue , I found the following article informative : <URL> , from the Globe &amp; Mail 's Report on Business site . Here 's a relevant quote : " [ ... ] If you work elsewhere during the agreement , and earn more than an amount equal to 40 % of your weekly benefit rate , that amount shall be deducted from your work sharing benefits payable that week . [ ... ] " The definitive source for information on the workshare program is the <URL> . In particular , see the Work-Sharing <URL> , which discusses eligibility criteria . Section IV confirms the Globe article 's statement above : " [ ... ] Earnings received in any week by a Work-Sharing participant , from sources other than Work-Sharing employment , that are in excess of an amount equal to 40 % or $ 75 ( whichever is greater ) of the participant 's weekly benefit rate , shall be deducted from the Work-Sharing benefits payable in that week . [ ... ] " Finally , here 's one more interesting article that discusses the workshare program : <URL> .
The Interest rate of 3 % and 7.5 % is for funds held in regular savings account that are denominated in Rupee . Moving these funds back to US will require compliance with Indian Foreign Exchange Act . If you are not intending to move funds back to US , then this would be good move . However you would still need to pay tax in US on the interest generated as personal tax in US requires one to pay tax on income world wide . As also pointed out by others , there is a risk of FX Conversion . The other option is to hold funds in NRE or USD denominated acounts where funds can be moved back to US without any hassel and are held in USD . However the interest rate on these accounts is similar to what one would get in US , slightly better at best . So you need to figure out if you need the funds back in US , then I guess keeping it in US would be a good move . However if you do not need the funds back in US , then moving it to India would make sense .
The answer is , unfortunately , along the lines of " it depends " . It does depend a little on the bank - I 've had a US bank account for years before moving to the US , and I did n't have an SSN or any status when I opened the account . What I did have however was an address in the US that they could send the statements to , and proof that I was living abroad ( oh , and US citizen wife that had an account with the same bank ) . Not all banks will open a bank account for a foreigner with no status in the US , but it is generally possible . You will have to check with several banks and basically have paperwork showing your foreign address and proof of id ( passport , possibly a drivers license as well ) .
Generally , the paperwork realtors use is pre-written and pre-approved by the relevant State and real-estate organizations . The offers , contracts , etc etc a pretty straightforward and standard . You can ask a realtor for a small fee to arrange the documents for you ( smaller than the usual 5 % sellers ' fee they charge , I would say 0.5 % or a couple of hundreds of dollars flat fee would be enough for the work ) . You can try and get these forms yourself , sometimes you can buy them in the neighborhood Staples , or from various law firms and legal plans that sell standard docs . You can get a lawyer to go over it with you for almost nothing : I used the LegalZoom plan for documentation review , and it cost me $ 30 ( business plan , individual is cheaper ) to go over several purchase contracts ( $ 30 is a monthly subscription , but you do n't have to pay it for more than one month ) . But these are standard , so you do it once and you know how to read them all . If you have a legal plan from work , this may cover document review and preparation . Preparing a contract that is not a standard template can otherwise cost you hundreds of dollars . Title company will not do any paperwork for you except for the deed itself . They can arrange the deed and the recording , escrow and title insurance , but they will not write a contract for the parties to use . You have to come with the contract already in place , and with escrow instructions already agreed upon . Some jurisdictions require using a lawyer in a real-estate transaction . If you 're in a jurisdiction ( usually on a county level ) that requires the transaction to go through a lawyer - then the costs will be higher .
To me this sounds like a transaction , where E already owns a company worth 400k and can therefore pocket the money from D and give D 25 % of the profits every year . There is nothing objective ( like a piece of paper ) that states the company is worth 400K . It is all about perceived value . Some investors may think it is worth something because of some knowledge they may have . Heck , the company could be worth nothing but the investor could have some sentimental value associated to it . So is it actually the case that E 's company is worth 400k only AFTER the transaction ? It is worth what someone pays for it when they pay for it . I repeat - the 400K valuation is subjective . In return the investor is getting 25 % ownership of the product or company . The idea is that when someone has ownership , they have a vested interest in it being successful . In that case , the investor will do whatever he/she can to improve the chances of success ( in addition to supplying the 100K capital ) . For instance , the investor will leverage their network or perhaps put more money into it in the future . Is the 100k added to the balance sheet as cash ? Perhaps . It is an asset that may later be used to fund inventory ( for instance ) . ... and would the other 300k be listed as an IP asset ? No . See what I said about the valuation just being perception . Note that the above analysis does n't apply to all Dragons Den deals . It only applies to situations where capital is exchanged for ownership in the form of equity .
You should start with a credit card with lower underwriting standards . A gasoline card or department store card is a good example . Make modest purchases and pay them off early or on time in full . I 'm assuming that you 're not leaving out things like late rent payments , judgements , defaulted loans , etc. . Do that for a few months , and sign up for a card marketed towards students . I 'd personally recommend an American Express card with no annual fee .
Nice idea , but you will have a potential problem . State lawmakers have already considered this option : I looked at this site : <URL> because it include info for on all the plans . For Illinois it discuses income tax recapture . Effective January 1 , 2007 , rollovers from this plan to an out-of-state program are included in Illinois taxable income to the extent of prior Illinois deductions . Effective January 1 , 2009 , nonqualified distributions from this plan are included in Illinois taxable income to the extent of prior Illinois deductions . Most of the states have similar wording . When looking up the law the key word is recapture . The reason why there is no recapture provision at the federal level is that there is no tax deduction on contributions . The 10 % penalty make it less likely that somebody would want to have nonqualified distributions . If a state gives a tax deduction in the year of the contribution they want to demand that tax deduction back if the funds are not used for educational purposes . Generally there are of course provisions for scholarships , death , and disability .
if you bought gold in late ' 79 , it would have taken 30 years to break even . Of all this time it was two brief periods the returns were great , but long term , not so much . Look at the ETF GLD if you wish to buy gold , and avoid most of the buy/sell spread issues . Edit - I suggest looking at <URL> and decide whether long term gold actually makes sense for you as an investor . It 's sold with the same enthusiasm as snake oil was in the 1800 's , and the suggestion that it 's a storehouse of value seems nonsensical to me .
Believe it or not , there is a <URL> . That would be a good place to start .
This is not intended as legal advice , and only covers general knowledge I have on the subject of wills as a result of handling my own finances . Each state of the USA has its own laws on wills and trusts . You can find these online . For example , in Kentucky I found state laws here : <URL> and Title XXXIV is about wills and trusts . I would recommend reading this , and then talking to a lawyer if it is not crystal clear . Generally , if a lawyer does not draft your will , then either ( 1 ) you have no will , or ( 2 ) you use a form or computer program to make a will , that must then be properly witnessed before it is valid . If you do n't have it witnessed properly , then you have no will . In some states you can have a holographic will , which means a will in your own handwriting . That 's when you have that 3am heart attack , and you get out a pad of paper and write " I rescind all former wills hereby bequeathing everything to my mistress Samantha , and as to the rest of you go rot in hell . " One issue with these is that they have to get to court somehow , and someone has to verify the handwriting , and there are often state laws about excluding a current spouse , so you can guess for yourself whether that one might disappear in the fireplace when another family member finds it next to the body or if a court would give it validity . And there can be logic or grammar problems with do it yourself wills , made in your own handwriting , without experience or good references on how to write things out . Lawyers who have done a bunch of these know what is clear and makes sense . ( 1 ) In Tennessee , where I live , an intestate 's property , someone who died with no will , is divided according to the law . The law looks to find a spouse or relatives to divide the property , before considering giving it to the state . That might be fine for some people . It happened once in my family , and was resolved in court with minimal red tape . But it really depends on the person . Someone in the middle of an unfinalized divorce , for instance , probably needs a will help to sort out who gets what . ( 2 ) A form will is valid in Tennessee if it is witnessed properly . That means two witnesses , who sign in yours ' and each others ' presence . In theory they can be called to testify that the signature is valid . In practice , I do n't know if this happens as I am not a lawyer . I have found it difficult to find witnesses who will sign a form will , and it is disconcerting to have to ask friends or coworkers for this sort of favor as most people learn never to sign anything without reading it . But a lawyer often has secretaries that do it ... There is a procedure and a treaty for international wills , which I know about from living overseas . To streamline things , you can get the witnesses to each sign an affidavit after they signed the will . The affidavit is sworn written testimony of what happened , that they saw the person sign their will and sign in each others ' presence , when , where , no duress , etc. . If done correctly , this can be sufficient to prove the will without calling on witnesses . There is another option ( 3 ) you arrange your affairs so that most of your funds are disbursed by banks or brokers holding your accounts . Option ( 3 ) is really cheap , most stock brokers and banks will create a Transfer-On-Death notice on your account for free . The problem with this is that you also need to write out a letter that explains to your heirs how to get this money , and you need to make sure that they will get the letter if you are dead . Also , you ca n't deal with physical goods or appoint a guardian for children this way . The advantage of a lawyer is that you know the document is correct and according to local law and custom , and also the lawyer might provide additional services like storing the will in his safe . You can get personalized help that you can not get with a form or computer program .
Since you say you are a student , perhaps you should look carefully at the requirements for contributing to an IRA , whether Traditional or Roth . Unless Congress changed the law recently , one has to have earned income to contribute to an IRA . So if you were a teaching or research asssistant receiving W-2 wages while completing your Master 's degree , you are eligible , but if you had a fellowship you are not eligible ( unless you had other income , whether W-2 wages or self-employment income reported on Schedule C ) . The amount that one can contribute is the smaller of your earned income and $ 5000 ( $ 6000 for 50 and older people ) .
Banks work pretty hard to make themselves a big part of your life with bill pay , auto-deposit , loans and other services . You need to carefully unwind each one and be on the lookout for fees . If you close a savings account , will your checking account suddenly have fees ? If you stop auto deposit , will there suddenly be a fee ? Setup your new account somewhere Setup your new bill pay and use it Setup your new auto deposit , and put either most or all of you checks in the new account . Stop using your old bill pay Make sure your auto deposit stops Stop any auto withdrawals ( and then never set them up again , use bill pay instead ) Look back at a year of transactions to see anything that auto withdraws yearly Try to download as many statements and check images from the old bank as possible . Consider getting an entire year even if it costs a few dollars ( per mhoran_psprep ) Do you have a business that deposits money ? A Google Ad sense account ? PayPal or the equivalent ? These all might be tied to your bank accounts . Wait a couple of months , leaving enough cash in the old back to prevent fees if possible . If two months go by and there is n't any activity on the account , you can probably close it . After you are sure all the written checks have cleared , go to the back and get a counter check for the balance of the account . You could alternately just write yourself one more check for the remaining balance and call the bank to close the account . You could electronically transfer the funds if you wanted too . HOWEVER , it is important to be careful of the timing , the last thing you want to do is write a check or transfer the money after the account is closed . ( per Dilip Sarwate ) If you do the check and phone call thing , make sure you do it in a short enough period of time that you do n't incur a fee . Having and closing regular bank accounts wo n't have any tax implications in the US .
is the tax applied on these high valued deposits , No tax is not applied on high value cash deposits . These are monitored and tracked . For example one deposits Rs 15 lacs cash in his bank account . This will be reported to Tax Authorities . At year end if one files a return showing income of say Rs 40 lacs and tax paid accordingly , then fine . But if the return only show say Rs 2 lacs as income , then Tax Authorities will question from where you got Rs 15 lacs . If you have a explanation , then fine . So high value transactions are monitored by Tax authorities to find out if there is some kind of tax evasion . if I deposit Rs 10 Lakhs today and if I withdraw it back after two days , should I worry ? This transaction would be reported , if there is a query and you can explain then there is no reason to worry . The interest for 2 days would be around Rs 220 , and depending on other interest you may have to pay taxes .
end question
start question
Does PayPal reveal your bank account and debit ( credit ) card details ?
They just see your email address and in some cases your address ( for shipping ) . <URL> and <URL> ( scroll down to " There are lots of other reasons to use PayPal . " )
There are a few factors at play here . Depending on the bank that has offered you the card there are different types of overdraft protection that may have been set up . Typically , if they attempt to run the card with no money , if one of these is in play , you will be spared any overdraft fees by the transaction charging to a designated overdraft account , usually savings , or by the transaction failing due to insufficient funds . If you know the transaction went through , and you know there were not enough funds in the account to cover the transactions , then you have a few options . If you have overdraft protection that auto charges insufficient funds charges to a separate account , then you have nothing to worry about . If you do not , most banks offer a grace period where you have until the end of the day to zero out your account , that is to say pay the overdraft amount and bring your balance to at least $ 0 . If this is a charge that occurred in the past , and you have already been charged an overdraft fee , there may still be hope . I can not speak for all banks , but I know that Chase Bank offers a once per year overdraft forgiveness , where they will get rid of the charges if you agree to bring the account out of the negative . There is a chance other banks will do the same if you call their customer service .
FICO score tracks credit , not checking or savings . Unless there was a credit line attached , no impact at all .
I had a joint account at Chase , and each of us had own on-line login , and could access the account ( each of us also had non-joint accounts in Chase , and with the same login we already had we could access the joint accounts , but not the other 's non-joint accounts ) . It seems like your bank is really backwards on this , change the bank . By the way , in joint accounts you have the option of requiring both partners to sign on every document , so that every check or order you write will only be valid with both of your signatures . I do n't know if that 's what you need , but some may want that ( it is quite uncomfortable , IMHO ) .
Apparently it is up to the credit card company on how they want to report your available balance . Another disadvantage to the no-limit credit card may not be apparent to most people , but it is something noted by organizations like The Motley Fool , which is expert in many issues of finance and investment . Part of your credit score , about 30 % , considers the amount of money you have borrowed , and the limit on your present credit cards . A no-limit credit card company may report your limit as $ 0 if you have not used the card , or they may report a maximum limit available to you . They may not , nor are they obligated , to report times when you put tons of expenses on a credit card and then paid them off . While some companies will report your timely payments and paid off amounts , others simply report an extremely low limit . For instance if you spent $ 100 US Dollars ( USD ) , your limit might be considered $ 100 USD , or it may merely be reported as zero . You 'll need to check with a credit card company on how they report payments and limits on a no-limit credit card before you obtain one . Some people who are scrupulous are paying off their cards at the end of each month suffer major losses to their credit score , without even realizing it , if their spending ability is rated at zero , or their payments do n't count toward showing credit worthiness . <URL>
The " load " is the act of you directly putting money into the account for the card . The " maximum load " is thus the most possible money you can add to the account at one time . What makes this different from a " maximum balance " is that you can add money to your balance separately from a load - specifically , from getting a refund . So technically you could load 15000 onto the account , spend 5000 , load 5000 more , and that would be OK . If you get a refund before you spend more out , however , you would exceed the maximum balance and be in violation of your card agreement - even though you did n't violate the maximum load amount . The load is also mentioned later in that table , in the form of maximum annual load/spend ( which are both unlimited on that card ) , so this helps to clarify that this " maximum load " is actually the maximum amount you can load at any one time . Some cards actually have maximum daily/monthly loads which are different than their maximum balances or spend sums , which makes the difference in the definitiosn of " load " , " spend " , and " balance " to be important distinctions .
Your credit report has no historic utilization rates ( although it will note the highest balance you have had on a particular line of credit ) . It only factors in the last reported statements from your creditors . The actual delay depends on a combination of the creditor and the reporting agency . It will usually range from 1-3 months . If you have no plans to have your credit pulled in the near future , your utilization rate should not be a major concern .
Funds earned and spent before opening a dedicated business account should be classified according to their origination . For example , if your business received income , where did that money go ? If you took the money personally , it would be considered either a ' distribution ' or a ' loan ' to you . It is up to you which of the two options you choose . On the flip side , if your business had an expense that you paid personally , that would be considered either a ' contribution of capital ' or a ' loan ' from you . If you choose to record these transactions as loans , you can offset them together , so you do n't need two separate accounts , loan to you and loan from you . When the bank account was opened , the initial deposit came from where ? If it came from your personal funds , then it is either a ' contribution of capital ' or a ' loan ' from you . From the sound of your question , you deposited what remained after the preceding income/expenses . This would , in effect , return the ' loan ' account back to zero , if choosing that route . The above would also be how to record any expenses you may pay personally for the business ( if any ) in the future . Because these transactions were not through a dedicated business bank account , you ca n't record them in Quickbooks as checks and deposits . Instead , you can use Journal Entries . For any income received , you would debit your capital/loan account and credit your income account . For any expenses , you would debit the appropriate expense account and credit your distribution/loan account . Also , if setting up a loan account , you should choose either Current Asset or Current Liability type . The capital contribution and distribution account should be Equity type . Hope this helps !
You have not indicate your country of residence or that of your friend . The fees would depend on this . Normally within US transfer of funds between paypal acounts is free . Transfering Outside there is a small charge . Further if when you withdraw the money to your bank account there would be a small fee . Refer to <URL> on Paypal for more details .
I feel the need to separate my freelance accounts from my personal accounts . Yes , you should . Should I start another savings account or a current account ? Do you need the money for daily spending ? Do you need to re-invest in your business ? Use a current account . If you do n't need the money for business expenses , put it away in your savings account or even consider term deposits . Do n't rule out a hybrid approach either ( some in savings account , some in current account ) . What criteria should I keep in mind while choosing a bank ? ( I thought of SBI since it has a lot of branches and ATMs ) . If you are involved in online banking and that is sufficient for most of your needs , bank and ATM locations should n't matter all that much . If you are saving a good chunk of money , you want to at least have that keep up with inflation . Research bank term deposit interest rates . The tend to be higher than just having your money sit in a savings account . Again , it depends on how and when you expect to need the money . What do I keep in mind while paying myself ? Paying yourself could have tax implications . This depends on how are set up to freelance . Are you a business entity or are you an individual ? You should look in to the following in India : Personal income tax rates Corporate taxation rates Tax credits for small business The other thing to consider is rewarding yourself for the good work done . Pay yourself a reasonable amount . If you decide to expand and hire people going forward , you will have a better sense of business expenses involved when paying salaries . Tips on managing money in the business account . This is a very generic question . I can only provide a generic response . Know how much you are earning and how much your are putting back in to the business . Be reasonable in how much you pay yourself and do the proper research and paperwork from a taxation point of view .
I 'd interpret it as " Net Worth " reached 1M where " net worth " = assets - liabilities .
You can not carry a balance on a charge card ; the total balance is due as the payment each period . I guess some government use charge cards . There is no interest to be paid on them , so it is cheaper , but the credit companies still make some money on transaction fees . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Like Bluetie Grasper have said . Can I create a PayPal account and receive $ 200 ( or a similar amount ) without adding a bank account , credit card , or anything but my email address ? The answer is No . You can transfer the money to your PayPal account but until you verify it with your personal information with at least a credit card or mostly likely a bank account , PayPal will hold those funds until otherwise . Can I then use that money to buy on Amazon , still without adding anything but my email address ? If not , can I buy gift cards and use those on Amazon ? Amazon does not accept PayPal .
I removed the bank account because I could n't change the default , and now it uses my credit card as the default . I have n't noticed any downsides . I think Paypal is just trying to save paying credit card transaction fees . But I do n't much like their user-hostile method of doing so , personally . Most cards kick back some of those fees to cardholders via rewards . If Paypal wants us to use a bank account maybe they should consider giving out an incentive instead of making us do annoying extra clicks on every purchase !
QE2 will mean that there are about $ 500 billion dollars in existence which were n't there before . These dollars will all be competing with the existing dollars for real goods and services , so each dollar will be worth a little less , and prices will rise a little . This is inflation . You can probably expect 1.5 % -2 % annual inflation for the US dollar over the next several years ( <URL> in the aggregate , anyway ) . This is in terms of US-based goods and services . QE2 will also reduce the amount of other currencies you can get for the same dollar amount . The extent to which this will occur is less clear , in part because other currencies are also considering quantitative easing . Your long-term savings should probably not be in cash anyway , because of the low returns ; this will probably affect you far more than the impact of quantitative easing . As for your savings which do remain in cash , what you should do with them depends on how you plan to dispose of them . The value of a currency is usually pretty stable in terms of the local economy 's output of goods and services - it 's the value in international trade which tends to fluctuate wildly . If you keep your savings in the same currency you plan to spend them in , they should be able to maintain their value decently well in the intermediate term .
If they told you that the move wo n't affect your credit score , it wo n't . As you noted , neither MasterCard or Visa are the ones that hold your account ; the bank is . They are telling you that it is a new account , but that is just bookkeeping . As far as you are concerned , it is the same account , as all your history is moving from the old account to the new . If the bank is reporting it to the credit agencies in the same way , it wo n't affect your score . The fact that the account number is changing does n't matter ; credit card account numbers change all the time .
Mr. Sethi is 100 % correct , within reason . Open a few cards , but try to limit it to one or two per quarter . Lenders like , in this order : People who pay on time . People with long histories of paying on time . People who have an good credit utilization ratio . Lots of available credit and low utilization will not hurt you from a credit point of view . But ... lenders will close unutilized credit lines eventually .
There is no central government signature database . ( at least not in the US , and at least not yet ) For debit and credit card transactions , the merchant may check the signature on your reciept against the signature on back of the card . This is intended to verify that you did n't steal the card . So , if you want to change the signature on the back of the card , all you need to do is get a new card and re-sign it . Your card has an expiration date . When that happens , you will get a new card to re-sign . If your card expires soon , you can just wait . If you are impatient , you can call your bank and ask for a new card . If they give you a lot of grief about issuing a new card ( it is an unusual request ) , you can tell them you lost your card and need a new one . In that case they will typically disable the old card and issue a new one with a new account number . Note that if you want to change how you sign your name , there are some other places you should also update : All of your other debit and credit cards Your bank should have a " signature card " on file , which they use periodically to check the signature of your checks and endorsed deposits . You should have filled out a signature card when you opened your account . I believe most banks will let you fill out a new signature card , although you will probably have to show multiple forms of ID . ( Had to do this after my wife changed her name when we got married . ) Worst case , you can close your account and move to a new bank . The signature on your driver 's license . When signing a legal document , someone may ask to see your driver 's license to check it against the document . If you start signing your name differently , this may be an issue . So , you may need a new driver 's license issued . Call your local DMV . Also , keep in mind that people 's signatures naturally drift over time . This fact is generally understood and accepted by people who check signatures .
Your instructor 's numbers do not seem to have any basis in current reality . At <URL> you can see a comparison of interest rates offered by banks and credit unions . In the most recent table for June 2014 , banks paid an average interest rate of 0.12 percent on savings accounts , while credit unions paid an average of 0.13 percent . If you look back further , you will see that interest rates paid by banks and credit unions are generally comparable . Credit union rates tend to be a little bit higher , but certainly not 7 times higher . The last time any financial institution paid as much as 15 % on a savings account would probably be the early 1980s . You can see <URL> a historical chart of the " prime rate " for lending . Savings account rates ( at either banks or credit unions ) would typically be lower . ( This is based on the US , in accordance with your tag . Interest rates in other places , especially developing countries with less stable currencies , can be dramatically different . )
The credit card may have advantages in at least two cases : In some instances ( at least in the US ) , a merchant will put a " hold " on a credit card without charging it . This happens a lot at hotels , for example , which use the hold as collateral against damages and incidental charges . On a credit card this temporarily reduces your credit limit but never appears on your bill . I 've never tried to do it on a debit card , but my understanding is that they either reject the debit card for this purpose or they actually make the withdrawal and then issue a refund later . You 'll actually need to account for this in your cash flow on the debit card but not on the credit card . If you get a fraudulent charge on your credit card , it impacts that account until you detect it and go through the fraud resolution process . On a debit card , the fraudulent charge may ripple through the rest of your life . The rent payment that you made by electronic transfer or ( in the US ) by check , for example , is now rejected because your bank account is short by the amount of the fraud even if you did n't use the debit card to pay it . Eventually this will probably get sorted out , but it has potential to create a bigger mess than is necessary . Personally , I never use my debit card . I consider it too risky with no apparent benefit .
end question
start question
If/When the Fed raises the interest rate , how much will this affect my ARM ?
Each ARM has a rate that they follow . There is also an offset from that rate so it may be prime +1 or something similar . You can see if there is movement in that base rate . Each ARM also has a maximum amount they can move in one adjustment , and a maximum rate they can have during the life of the loan . Some arms adjust every year , others adjust less often . You need to check your documents to see what the rules are for your loan . Every ARM is different . If you are concerned about affording the increase you may consider refinancing to a fixed loan . You can also start to prepare by setting aside the extra amount that would be needed into a savings account to pretend the higher rates have already happened .
First , it is important for you to understand that there are multiple credit scores in the US . <URL> is the credit score usually used by lenders to evaluate potential borrowers , but Credit Karma shows you <URL> . Both scores use the same 300-850 scale , but differ in the actual formulas used . The exact formulas are proprietary secrets , and we ca n't know if your FICO score has been impacted as much in the last two months as your VantageScore . However , the credit score companies have revealed the types of things that impact your score . In the last two months , you have done several things that lower your score : Opening the new account required an inquiry on your credit report ( hard pull ) . Opening the new account lowered your average age of accounts . Adding debt on your new account has increased your utilization . For the first two items , these will both get better with time , and there is n't really a way to eliminate them faster . Utilization , however , is an instantaneous number with <URL> . When you pay off your debt , your utilization will improve immediately , and your score will improve with it . It is difficult to say how a credit line increase would affect your score . It has the potential to reduce your utilization number , but will also likely add another credit report inquiry . The best way , in my opinion , to improve your score is to pay off your debt and pay your bills on-time . If you do that , your score will take care of itself , as it had for you before you added " a bunch of debt . " Even at 730 , your score is <URL> . Trying to raise it by adding accounts and raising your available credit higher than you need does n't really give you an advantage .
The ACA , aka ObamaCare , was specifically designed to be paid for using measures other than a straight income tax increase , which was due to one of Obama 's campaign promises not to raise income taxes on the working class ( sub-250k ) . As such , the 85 % of Americans who are insured through their employers will see little , if any , change in their 1040s for TY2014 . Assuming that your employer will continue to offer healthcare benefits after 2014 ( a bigger if for some ) , the only change in your taxes is that your W-2 will reflect the fact that you are insured , as well as showing the amount of deductible premium payments made on the plan over the year . There may be an additional form sent to you directly by your insurer that will be attached to your return along with your other proof of income/expenses . You should not see any increase in your taxes owed between 2013 and 2014 ( you have likely seen an increase in withholding between 2012 and 2013 , as some of the Bush tax cuts and some payroll tax subsidies were allowed to expire ) . The flip side is that , since you already have employer-provided healthcare , you probably wo n't be able to reduce your tax bill any in 2014 . As the law stands now , tax subsidies for healthcare only apply to plans purchased on the healthcare exchanges by people whose employers do not offer healthcare , or for whom the employer plan is deemed " not affordable " , so you 'll only be considered for tax credits if the individual rate of coverage for the employer plan is more than 9.5 % of your gross income ( the threshold of " affordability " ) . On top of that , there 's an unfortunate loophole in the ACA regarding subsidies called the " family glitch " ; the " affordability " of an employer health plan is based only on the cost of the employee-paid portion of the employee 's own coverage . This is typically the cheapest portion of a family 's health insurance plan ; coverage for spouses and children can drastically inflate that cost , but will not make the employee or family eligible for subsidies on an exchange-provided plan . It 's unlikely the glitch will get fixed before the individual mandate kicks in on March 31 2014 ; making such a surgical change to the law will pretty much require Democratic control of both chambers and the White House , and the earliest opportunity for that is 2015 . However , by executive order , Obama has instructed the IRS not to levy the tax penalty ( in effect waiving the individual mandate ) on uninsured spouses/children in a household if the filing shows that the employer-provided plan would cost in excess of the affordability threshold . So if your employer plan is untenable under the new rules you do n't have to have insurance at all ( but ironically , uninsured families of covered wage-earners were one of the demographics the ACA was supposed to bring into the fold ) . Here 's a short and probably incomplete list of other things that might affect what comes out of your paycheck , whether you figure it on your 1040 or not : Over-the-counter ( OTC ) medicines are no longer accepted as tax-deductible medical expenses , including for FSA , HSA and similar tax-deferred spending . In 2012 , they were accepted as tax-deductible when a " letter of medical necessity " for these items was provided by a doctor or specialist ( you could have gone to your PCP with a shopping list of drugs for your medicine cabinet and get a LMN covering them all ) . This will no longer be the case starting in 2013 , so you can not use your FSA to pay for these , and you may likely reduce your FSA/HSA contributions accordingly , increasing withheld taxes . Persons using an HSA or Archer account for ineligible medical expenses will pay a tax penalty of 10 to 20 % on the amount of the expenditure , so be careful when whipping out that debit card at the pharmacy . The threshold for medical expenses as an itemized deduction is now 10 % of taxable income as of TY2013 , up from 7.5 % , so if you just barely spent enough on medical expenses last year and do n't expect to spend any more this year , you might find your expenses no longer qualify and your taxable income takes a jump . Brand-name prescription drugs now have an additional tax , which is directly paid by Big Pharma , but you can bet they 'll bump up prices across the board to compensate , so make sure your healthcare plan for 2014 includes good prescription copays . " Pay to Play " Tax : Insurers themselves will pay a percentage of all premium revenue , based on their market share . This will create a balancing act ; obviously the insurers will want to pass this on with higher premiums or reduced services , but they have other benchmarks to meet ( or face even more taxation or forced refunds ) that will limit their ability to do this . Medicare Tax Hike : Individuals earning over $ 200k and married couples earning over $ 250k will see a .9 % increase in their employee-paid Medicare taxes withheld from each paycheck . If you earn less than that you will not see any change , however your employer , if they make over
Short Answer : You 're going to end up paying taxes on it . Despite the home being your primary residence , you do n't meet the ownership test , and it is n't noted that you have had a change in employment , health , or other unforeseen circumstances that are " forcing " you to sell . Otherwise , you could qualify for a reduced maximum exclusion that might allow you to walk away without owing taxes , or with a reduced tax bill . You ca n't even do a 1031 exchange to re-invest into a new primary residence . You should check with a tax professional to see what adjustments you can make to the cost basis of the property to minimize your reported net profits . EDIT : Ownership and Use Tests During the 5-year period prior to the sale , you must have : Owned the house for at least 2 years , and lived in the house as your main home for at least 2 years . These periods do not necessarily have to coincide ( You do n't to live in it as your main house for 2 consecutive years , just 2 years worth of time of the last 5 ) .
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
I do n't know that this can actually be answered objectively . Maybe it can with some serious research . ( Read : data on what the issuers have been doing since the law went into affect . ) Personally , I think the weak economy and general problems with easy credit are a bigger issue than the new rules . Supposedly , there is evidence that card issuers are trying to make up for the lost income due to the new regulations with higher fees . I believe that your credit rating and history with the issuer is a larger factor now . In other words , they may be less likely to lower your rate just to keep you as a customer or to attract new customers . <URL> , issuers dropped their riskiest customers as a result of the new regulations . <URL> that new laws simply motivated the issuers to find new ways to " gouge " their customers . Here are two NYTimes blog posts about the act : <URL> <URL> As JohnFx states , it does not hurt to ask .
$ 400K is equity , $ 200K is principal owed on your mortgage . Cost basis is still $ 500K .
The bank will make this even more confusing because they use the terms from their own perspective . From the bank 's perspective ( printed on your statements ) credit : Money into your account ( increases the bank 's liabilities ) debit : Money out of your account ( decrease bank liabilities ) From your perspective : It depends on the nature of the transfer of money , but here are the most common for a personal account . Income into your account : Credit Expenses out of your account : Debit Payment on a loan made for an asset ( house/car ) : Credit for the loan account , debit for the equity account for the car/house/etc . Yes , it 's complicated . Neither credits nor debits are always a + or - . That 's why I agree with the advice of the others here that double-entry accounting is overkill for your personal finances . Note : I simplified the above examples for the purpose of clarity . Technically every transaction in double entry accounting includes both a credit and a debit ( hence the " double " in the name ) . In fact , sometimes a transaction involves more than one credit or debit , but always at least one of each . Also , this is for EACH party . So any transaction between you and your bank involves at least FOUR debits and/or credits when all involved are considered .
Bank have their own Capital , Deposits from Depositors and lend money to Borrowers . In a liquidity problem , it is typically that either the Borrowers are taking time to repay [ they are not yet defaulters ] or there is more pressure on withdrawals from Depositors or there is a short term of mismatch between deposits and loans ... in all these valid scenarios FED does lend out the banks to met these short terms obligations . Banks fail when the losses are actually booked in comparison to the overall Capital or loss would materialize ... for example the Mortgage crisis in US meant that quite a few Banks the actual loss had materialized or would have any ways materialized . In such situations the short term leading does not help and they would burn it out anyways as the borrowers are not paying back any time soon ...
The best solution is to " buy " the car and get your own loan ( like @ChrisInEdmonton answered ) . That being said , my credit union let me add my spouse to a title while I still had a loan for a title filing fee . You may ask the bank that holds the title if they have a provision for adding someone to the title without changing the loan . Total cost to me was an afternoon at the bank and something like $ 20 or $ 40 ( it 's been a while ) .
The FDIC periodically checks to make sure the bank is accurately accounting for all the deposits in the bank through a <URL> verifies whether the insured institution accurately calculates and reports data upon which the FDIC assesses deposit insurance ... issues a report discussing the institution 's compliance with assessment reporting requirements , the effectiveness of the institution 's documentation , and the institution 's responsiveness throughout the review process .
Do n't be afraid to shop around . Every couple of years when it 's time to renew my auto insurance I call a couple of places to see if I can get a better deal . It 's especially important to do this as you get older ( because your rates go down assuming you keep a clean driving record ) . Also as your life changes , e.g. if you get married , move , buy a home , get a new car , etc. . At 30 my rates dropped a lot . When I bought a home , I qualified for a discount by combining my home and auto insurance through the same carrier . My suggestion would be to call 3 insurance companies for quotes , all on the same day . You 'll need to be able to identify the car you 'll be insuring for the most accurate quote . Do you belong to any organizations that offer insurance discounts ? ( E.g. my college alumni association had a program with one of the larger carriers that had the best rates on auto + home that I could find . )
Assuming the rates are the same , and they will remain the same , and assuming that there is no real difference between the loans . Then by the simplest math it does n't make difference in the approach to paying the loan . If the loans worked more like credit cards , where there is a minimum payment of x % of the balance of y $ whichever is greater , and if the goal was to stretch a fixed amount of money over 4 accounts then paying off the smallest balance first makes sense . It allows the minimum payment for that account to be applied to the other accounts . If they had different rates the higher rate could make the most sense . That leaves only 2 reasons to pick an unbalanced approach to paying off the loans : psychology and logistics . Getting rid of one loan quickly makes you feel better , even though it does n't make you any closer to being debt free . If one of the loans is with a separate lender then it cuts down on the amount of transactions in your bank account and email , or snail mail . I have heard horror stories of people who left school unsure of how many loans they had , only to discover they forgot about one until it went to collections . They key to your question is that the loans are essentially the same , if they were n't then the math becomes more complex because it depends on the rate and balances .
The Fed board members are appointed by the US President and approved by the Senate . That is the only control the US government has over the Fed . Otherwise it is a private , unaudited bank that has the unique ability to print money . The Fed was created in <URL> ( or for a shorter <URL> ) on Jekyll Island by a bunch of bankers who disguised their identities so no one would know what they were meeting about . That seems like a great way to start a central bank . The Fed was created by bankers for bankers . The citizens of the US were not clamoring for a central bank . The bankers were the ones who desired a central bank since all fractional reserve banks are always teetering on the verge of bankruptcy . List of participants at the meeting on Jekyll Island : Senator Nelson W. Aldrich , Rockefeller in-law Henry P.Davison , Morgan partner ( banker ) Paul M.Warburg , Kuhn , Loeb &amp; Co. partner ( banker ) Frank A. Vanderlip , vice-president of Rockefeller 's National City Bank ( banker ) Charles D. Norton , president of Morgan 's First National Bank of New York ( banker ) A. Piatt Andrew , Harvard economist and staff assistant to Aldrich on the Monetary Commission .
I 'll answer your question , but first a comment about your intended strategy . Buying government bonds in a retirement account is probably not a good idea . Government bonds ( generally ) are tax advantaged themselves , so they offer a lower interest rate than other types of bonds . At no tax or reduced tax , many people will accept the lower interest rate because their effective return may be similar or better depending , for example , on their own marginal tax rate . In a tax-advantaged retirement account , however , you 'll be getting the lower interest without any additional benefit because that account itself is already tax-advantaged . ( Buying bonds generally may be a good idea or not - I wo n't comment on that - but choose a different category of bonds . ) For the general question about the relationship between the Fed rate and the bond rate , they are positively correlated . There 's not direct causal relationship in the sense that the Fed is not setting the bond rate directly , but other interest bearing investment options are tied to the Fed rate and many of those interest-bearing options compete for the same investor dollars as the bonds that you 're reviewing . That 's at a whole market level . Individual bonds , however , may not be so tightly coupled since the creditworthiness of the issuing entity matters a lot too , so it could be that " bond rates " generally are going up but some specific bonds are going down based on something happening with the issuer , just like the stock market might be generally going up even as specific stocks are dropping . Also keep in mind that many bonds trade as securities on a secondary market much like stocks . So I 've talked about the bond rate . The price of the bonds themselves on the secondary market generally move opposite to the rate . The reason is that , for example , if you buy a bond at less than face value , you 're getting an effective interest rate that 's higher because you get the same sized incremental payments of interest but put less money into the investment . And vice versa .
As I 've had several jobs over the last decade , I 've typically run two pension plans - a private one which I use for consolidating all my previous pensions into and my current corporate one ( often does n't allow consolidating ) where I take advantage of the corporate benefits associated with it ( large corporate institutions typically match your own contributions or contribute a fixed percentage of salary as a perk ) . This allows me to not worry about the previous pension schemes I was a part of as they are in a single place . With the very last corporate job I had , I was not allowed to keep my pension pot under their scheme terms ( unlike with a few others where it was allowed to stay in the scheme but contributions were no longer allowed by either party ) and so when I left , I provided the details of my private pension plan and the pot was transferred into it by my employer . I 've since turned to contracting and consolidated all my previous pensions into a single private pension pot which I still contribute to every month .
I 'm assuming that compound interest is paid monthly . In that case , the interest rate is ~ 0.9162 % per month ( i.e. an APR of 11.57 % ) . The following formula is the one you are interested in : sum _ { y = 0 } ^ 9 ( sum _ { m = 0 } ^ 11 ( 500 +50 * y ) * ( 1 + T ) ^ ( 120-12 * y-m ) ) = 149028 I did n't attempt to solve this , but instead used trial and error . The value T = 0.0091624 works nicely ; you can verify this in <URL> . Getting at APR/EAR is simply ( 1 + T ) ^ 12 - 1 .
FICO score tracks credit , not checking or savings . Unless there was a credit line attached , no impact at all .
Federal Funds Rate The interest rate at which a depository institution lends funds maintained at the Federal Reserve to another depository institution overnight . The federal funds rate is generally only applicable to the most creditworthy institutions when they borrow and lend overnight funds to each other . The federal funds rate is one of the most influential interest rates in the U.S. economy , since it affects monetary and financial conditions , which in turn have a bearing on key aspects of the broad economy including employment , growth and inflation . <URL>
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
end question
start question
What do Earnings Per Share tell potential shareholders ?
EPS tells you how much money a company makes . The EPS by itself means nothing . You usually have to compare the current EPS with past EPS for the conpany and with future expected earnings . If you want to invest is a financially healthy company you would look for one that is increasing EPS year after year and is forcast to keep increasing EPS . You should also check that the EPS is greater than the DPS ( Dividends Per Share ) , as you would be wise to invest only in companies who are earning more than what they pay out in dividends .
What you are probably interested in doing is a variant of the <URL> of paying down your debt . For an online calculator using a method like what you described , check out <URL> . Here 's the description from the site itself : Snowballing is all about paying your debts in the correct order . Generally speaking you should attempt to pay off the debts with the highest interest rate first . Some people , such as Dave Ramsey suggest you pay the card with the smallest balance first , that 's fine , and can help you feel you 're getting rid of the debt quicker , but it 's not the most efficient way . This calculator allows you to enter up to 20 different debts with their associated APRs , and the total amount you want to spend per month servicing your debts , and it 'll work out the order in which you should pay them together with the monthly payments . [ ... ] [ emphasis mine ] The tool appears to do what you are looking for . Note : The site is in the U.K. and the currency symbol shown is ' # ' , but if you ignore that and look at numbers only , it ought to calculate reasonable results for other countries .
Maybe just put all his correspondence back in the Post Box and mark it " Wrong address " ? Precisely . Without opening . Just tell the postman that that person does n't live there and have it returned to sender . The Revenue will figure it out . Most definitely do not accept any certified or registered mail not addressed to you personally .
You likely received the shares as ordinary income for services of $ 10k , since they withheld taxes at granting . Separately , you likely had a short term capital loss on sale of $ 2k , since your holding period seems to have been under one year .
You are likely making an assumption that the " Short call " part of the article you refer to is n't making : that you own the underlying stock in the first place . Rather , selling short a call has two primary cases with considerably different risk profiles . When you short-sell ( or " write " ) a call option on a stock , your position can either be : covered , which means you already own the underlying stock and will simply need to deliver it if you are assigned , or else uncovered ( or naked ) , which means you do not own the underlying stock . Writing a covered call can be a relatively conservative trade , while writing a naked call ( if your broker were to permit such ) can be extremely risky . Consider : With an uncovered position , should you be assigned you will be required to buy the underlying at the prevailing price . This is a very real cost -- certainly not an opportunity cost . Look a little further in the article you linked , to the <URL> section , and you will see the covered call mentioned there . That 's the kind of trade you describe in your example .
Contributions to a traditional IRA are treated as ordinary income when they 're withdrawn , as well as the earnings .
The All Ords Index consists of the 500 largest companies by market capitalisation listed on the Australia Stock Exchange . Each stock in the All Ords . Index is given a weighting based on its market capitalisation . As the price of the stocks within the All Ords . Index change , so does the points on the index itself . The Index is more sensitive to changes in the larger capitalised stocks due to their larger weighting in the Index . Example : If a company has a weighting of 10 % and its price goes up by 10 % , and all other stocks in the Index do n't go up or down , then this will cause the All Ords Index to go up by 1 % ( 10 % of 10 % ) .
Assets held within an ISA or New ISA <URL> , so you wo n't have to pay either income tax or capital gains tax .
You will be hit every time , once every buy order and once every sell order . Commissions to the broker are paid every time they do something for you . This is true regardless if it is a security in which you are already invested . It is true regardless if you make or lose money . It is just as sure as death and taxes .
It means that the company earned 15 cents per share in the most recently reported quarter . Share price may or not be affected , depending on how buyers and sellers value the company . Just because profits " jumped , " does not mean the shares will follow suit . An increase in profits may have already been priced into the stock , or the market expected the increase in profit to be even higher . As the shareholder , you do n't actually get any of these profits into your hands , unless the company pays out a portion of these profits as a dividend .
<URL> of what 's required to handle the reporting of tip income . To address this question specifically , here 's the relevant instructions from that post : If your allocated tips are less than what 's recorded in your daily log , and you reported your tips to your employer , then it is likely that something is wrong with your employer 's recordkeeping system . You can ask your employer to correct your W-2 . You should report the allocated tips on Form 4137 , plus any additional tips you show in your daily records .
The IRS publishes an exhaustive set of explicit lookup tables in <URL> Determine the payroll period-weekly , biweekly , monthly , etc. . For bonuses and exceptional payments there several options available . Determine your exemption , a function of the allowances you reported on W-4 and payroll period ( and technically , citizenship status ) . Take the gross amount in the check . Subtract the exemption . Cross reference the net amount in the lookup table for the payroll period . That 's the amount withheld .
Deposits are contributions . You deposit say , $ 5000 , and over time you have $ 6000 . The $ 5000 can be withdrawn any time with no issue . It 's tracked via <URL> . With this in mind , I wrote an article <URL> , suggesting that since one can withdraw deposits with no issue , the Roth can be used to hold emergency money .
If the first one is literally a company name , then ' company name ' is fine . However , companies can issue shares more than once , and those shares might be traded separately , so you could have ' Google ordinary ' , ' Google preference ' , ' Google ordinary issue B ' . Seeing the name spelled out in full like this is n't as common as just the company name , but I 'd normally see it referred to as ' display name ' . The second one is ' symbol ' , ' ticker ' , ' ID ' , and others . Globally , there are many incompatible ways of referring to a stock , depending on where it 's listed ( companies can have dual listings , and different exchanges have different conventions ) , and who 's referring to it ( Bloomberg and Reuters have different sets of IDs , with no predictable mapping between them ) . So there 's no one shorthand name , and the word you use depends on the context . However , ' symbol ' or ' ticker ' is normally fine .
In the context of EDV , 4.46 is the indicated dividend rate . The indicated dividend rate is the rate that would be paid per share throughout the next year , assuming dividends stayed the same as prior payment . sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Shares are partial ownership of the company . A company can issue ( not create ) more of the shares it owns at any time , to anyone , at any price -- subject to antitrust and similar regulations . If they wanted to , for example , flat-out give 10 % of their retained interest to charity , they could do so . It should n't substantially affect the stock 's trading for others unless there 's a completely irrational demand for shares .
After talking with a tax representative it seems that this amount would be listed under box 14 of the W2 , which is not in my case . So , I will fill in a 0 .
I think I understand what you 're trying to achieve . You just want to see how it " feels " to own a share , right ? To go through the process of buying and holding , and eventually selling , be it at a loss or at a gain . Frankly , my primary advice is : Just do it on paper ! Just decide , for whatever reason , which stocks to buy , in what amount , subtract 1 % for commissions ( I 'm intentionally staying on the higher side here ) , and keep track of the price changes daily . Instead of doing it on mere paper , some brokers offer you a demo account where you can practice your paper trading in the same way you would use a live account . As far as I know , Interactive Brokers and Saxo Bank offer such demo accounts , go look around on their web pages . The problem about doing it for real is that many of the better brokers , such as the two I mentioned , have relatively high minimum funding limits . You need to send a few thousand pounds to your brokerage account before you can even use it . Of course , you do n't need to invest it all , but still , the cash has to be there . Especially for some younger and inexperienced investors , this can seduce them to gambling most of their money away . Which is why I would not advise you to actually invest in this way . It will be expensive but if it 's just for trying it on one share , use your local principal bank for the trade . Hope this gets you started !
Generally the number of shares of a U.S. exchange-listed stock which have been shorted are tracked by the exchange and reported monthly . This number is usually known as the open short interest . You may also see a <URL> , which is the short interest divided by the average daily volume for the stock . The short interest is available on some general stock data sites , such as Yahoo Finance ( under Key Statistics ) and dailyfinance.com ( also on a Key Statistics subpage for the stock ) .
I once bought both preferred and common shares in a bankrupt company . It is true that those preferred shares had less potential for appreciation than the common shares . The reason is because the preferred shares were trading around $ 50 and had a face value of $ 1000 . This means that if the bankruptcy proceedings ended up finding enough assets to make the preferred shares whole , then the preferred shareholders would be paid $ 1000 per share and no more than that . So if you bought the preferred shares at $ 50 and received $ 1000 per share for them , then you made a 1900 % gain . But if the bankruptcy proceedings found enough assets to pay not just the preferred shareholders but also the common shareholders , then the common shareholders had the potential for a greater gain than the preferred shareholders . The common stock was trading around 20 cents at the time , and if enough assets were found to pay $ 10 per share to the common shareholders , then that would have been a 4900 % gain . The preferred shares were capped by their face value , but the common shares had no limit on how high they could go .
end question
start question
Are there any Social Responsibility Index funds or ETFs ?
Vanguard offers an index fund . Their FTSE Social Index Fund . For more information on it , <URL> .
The idea of an index is that it is representative of the market ( or a specific market segment ) as a whole , so it will move as the market does . Thus , past performance is not really relevant , unless you want to bank on relative differences between different countries ' economies . But that 's not the point . By far the most important aspect when choosing index funds is the ongoing cost , usually expressed as Total Expense Ratio ( TER ) , which tells you how much of your investment will be eaten up by trading fees and to pay the funds ' operating costs ( and profits ) . This is where index funds beat traditional actively managed funds - it should be below 0.5 % The next question is how buying and selling the funds works and what costs it incurs . Do you have to open a dedicated account or can you use a brokerage account at your bank ? Is there an account management fee ? Do you have to buy the funds at a markup ( can you get a discount on it ) ? Are there flat trading fees ? Is there a minimum investment ? What lot sizes are possible ? Can you set up a monthly payment plan ? Can you automatically reinvest dividends/coupons ? Then of course you have to decide which index , i.e. which market you want to buy into . My answer in the other question apparently did n't make it clear , but I was talking only about stock indices . You should generally stick to broad , established indices like the MSCI World , S&amp;P 500 , Euro Stoxx , or in Australia the All Ordinaries . Among those , it makes some sense to just choose your home country 's main index , because that eliminates currency risk and is also often cheaper . Alternatively , you might want to use the opportunity to diversify internationally so that if your country 's economy tanks , you wo n't lose your job and see your investment take a dive . Finally , you should of course choose a well-established , reputable issuer . But this is n't really a business for startups ( neither shady nor disruptively consumer-friendly ) anyway .
On a similar quest . One of the lists I check daily are Google Finances lowest Betas bit.ly / GFscreener12 Shows me a handful of companies with healthy financials and each correlated to the market by 0.33 or less , so it does n't have to tank along with the S&amp;P 500 as much . Another using similar criteria but sorted by highest dividend yields : bit.ly / GFscreener11 To try and keep the results little correlated to each other , run that screener once for each of the 12 sectors , for example . Somewhere I used to use a site that measures and graphs direct correlations . Let me find that link and post back . <URL> 's one popular Correlation Tracker . Ah , yes . Remembered the one that 's been my favorite : <URL>
<URL> references a product at least in terms of being a bond fund that exists , Target Date Bond ETFs . While the article is a bit old as it came out 7 months ago , " AMT Free Municipal Bonds by iShares " would be the product to explore and see if the ticker exists . <URL> may be the product you want assuming a 5 year time frame as the final date referenced in the article is Aug. 31 , 2018 approximately . Remember to do your own research but this would seem to be what you wanted .
What the automation mostly does is make short-term trading that much more difficult . Day trading is a zero-sum game , so if they win more , everyone else wins less . Long term trading ( years to decades ) is a positive-sum game ; the market as a whole tends to move upward for fairly obvious reasons ( at its basis it 's still investing , which in turn is based on lending , and as long as folks make fairly rational decisions about how much return they demand for their investment and the companies are mostly producing profits there will be a share of the profit coming back to the investors as dividends or increased share value or both . Day-to-day churn in individual stocks gets averaged out by diversification and time , and by the assumption that if you 've waited that long you can wait a bit longer if necessary for jitters to settle out . Time periods between those will partake of some mix of the two .
They are n't qualified , because the REIT is a special kind of company , and not double-taxed like a regular corporation ( as you mention ) . The income from the real estate holdings gets passed straight through , similar to how a mutual fund passes any interest or capital gains it earns straight through to shareholders . To avoid the double tax the REIT has to agree to distribute 90 % of its income to shareholders , rather than keeping it inside the company . That ensures that while the taxation is only " single , " it does n't get deferred indefinitely into the future . For a normal corporation , paying a dividend is optional and can be put off forever if desired .
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
What happened in my case . I deposited the amount in my Chase account , and it was available for me the next morning . I did tell the teller that it was kind of urgent and she told me that it will be available after clearing at midnight . I was not able to cash the check at BofA , as they said the branches will not have that kind of cash with them and my only option was to clear the check .
That info is n't in the credit card transaction data record . Keep and scan your receipts .
Yes , you can do everything that Fidelity promises with the cash management account . Your benefits are : Free checks ATM fees reimbursed Free bill pay Free account Relatively easy to set up direct deposit or ACH transfers . Free debit card The downsides ? They do n't have branches everywhere , so if you do need to see a person , you may not be able to do so . Likewise , you wo n't be able to do cash deposits . Before anyone says it 's too good to be true , brokerages like Schwab and Fidelity offer this because the hope is that you 'll end up establishing or using other services they offer , so they do have ways to profit from this . Still , compared to the joke that is many other banks , it 's a good deal provide you 're aware of the two downsides listed above this .
Assuming the debt is legitimate , this does indeed constitute a delinquent account . However , this is a civil matter , not a criminal matter . This account would not constitute a criminal conviction or even a criminal act . You would be aware had you been criminally convicted . You 'd have been charged by a police officer and would have had to show up in court . That sort of thing does n't happen to bad debts except in extreme circumstances . Obtained monies through fraud ? Filed false tax returns ? Then you may be criminally charged . But short of that , no . Note that I have a guy who stiffed me out of about $ 12,000 for computer programming work I did for him . I filed a civil suit against him and won . Even then , he never paid up . But because this was a civil matter , he could still honestly swear he has never been convicted of a criminal act . Off-topic , but note that pretty much every member of the population has committed a criminal act of some sort ; it 's almost impossible to avoid . You should be careful stating otherwise . Most forms would only ask if you 've ever been convicted , or perhaps if you have ever been charged .
The uptick rule is gone , but it was weakly reintroduced <URL> , applied to all publicly traded equities : Under the terms of the rule , a circuit breaker would be triggered if a stock falls by 10 % or more in a single day . At that point , short selling would only be allowed if the price is above the current national best bid , a restriction that would apply for the rest of the day and the whole of the following day . Derivatives are not yet restricted in such ways because of their spontaneous nature , requiring a short to increase supply ; however , this latest rule widens options spreads during collapses because the exemption for hedging is now gone , and what 's more a tool used by options market makers , shorting the underlying to offset positive delta , now has to go to the back of the selling line during a panic . Bonds are not restricted because for one there is n't much interest in shorting because bonds usually do n't have enough variance to exceed the cost of borrowing , and many do not trade frequently enough because even the cost to trade bonds is expensive , so arranging a short in its entirety will be expensive . The preferred method to short a bond is with swaps , swaptions , etc. .
I think the IRS doc you want is <URL> I believe the answers are : funds tracking different indexes : not substantially identical ; the indexes could behave differently funds tracking same index : substantially identical ( though apparently it is n't 100 % for sure according to <URL> , I would n't want to argue it in court ) option on stock you sold : according to <URL> their bullet point 3 under Wash Sales , a contract to buy a substantially identical stock is automatically a wash sale ( even if the contract itself is not substantially identical to the stock ) . presumably applies to a short put as well for example . switch from group of stocks to similar ETF : probably not substantially identical unless your holdings matched the ETF 's index exactly ( same principle as 1 and 2 )
Appreciation of a Capital Asset is a <URL> . In the United States , Capital Gains get favorable tax treatment after being held for 12 months . From the <URL> : Capital gains and losses are classified as long-term or short-term , depending on how long you hold the property before you sell it . If you hold it more than one year , your capital gain or loss is long-term . If you hold it one year or less , your capital gain or loss is short-term . The tax rates that apply to net capital gain are generally lower than the tax rates that apply to other income . For 2009 , the maximum capital gains rate for most people is15 % . For lower-income individuals , the rate may be 0 % on some or all of the net capital gain . Special types of net capital gain can be taxed at 25 % or 28 % . The IRS defines a Capital Asset as " most property you own " with a list of exclusions found in <URL> . None of the exclusions listed relate to Bond ETFs .
The charts on nasdaq.com are log based , if you look closely you can see that the spacing between evenly incremented prices is tighter at the top of the chart and wider at the bottom . It 's easiest to see on a stock with a wide price range using candlestick where you can clearly see the grid . I 'm also not seeing the " absurdism " you indicate when I look at google finance with the settings ticked to use log on the price axis . I see what I 'd expect which is basically a given vertical differential on the price axis representing the same percentage change in price no matter where it is located . For example if I look at GOOG from the earliest date they have ( Aug 20 2004 ) to a nice high point ( dec 7 2007 ) I see a cart where the gap from the the bottom of the chart ( seems to be right around 100 ) to the 200 point , ( a 100 % increase ) is the same as from 200 to 400 ( a 100 % increase ) is the same as 400 to 800 ( a 100 # increase ) That 's exactly what I expect from a ' log ' chart on a financial site , each relative move up or down of the same distance , represents the same relative change in value . So I 'm having difficulty understanding what your complaint is . ( note : I 'm using chrome , which is the browser I 'd expect to work best with any google website . results with other browsers could of course vary ) If you want to do some other wacky math with the axis then I humbly suggest that something like Excel is your friend . Goto the charts at nasdaq.com get the chart displaying the period you care about , click the chart to display the unlying data , there will be an option to download the data . cram it into excel and go wild as you want with charting it out . e.g. go to the nasdaq basic charting page , for example <URL> move your mouse on top of the chart and click a new window opens that has a table with the data from the chart , and at the top is a link that says ' Download This File in Excel Format ' click that link . note that step 2 links to client side javascript , so you will need javascript enabled , if you are running something like noscript , disable it for this site . Also since the data opens in a new window , you may also need to enabled ' popups ' for the site . ( and yes , I sometimes get an annoying news alert advert popup and have to close it when the chart first appears . . oh well it pays the rent and nasdaq is not charging you so for access so such is the price for a free site . )
In general , the goal of an S&amp;P 500 index fund is to replicate the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index . To do this , the fund will buy the same stocks in the same proportions as the weighting of the Index . The S&amp;P 500 Index is free-float capitalization weighted . This means that the higher capitalization stocks ( based on publicly traded shares only ) are more heavily weighted and factor into the Index value more heavily than the smaller capitalization stocks , or the stocks that have a smaller publicly traded value . For example , companies like Apple , ExxonMobil , and Microsoft have a much larger weight in the index value than smaller companies . Alternatively , there are some S&amp;P index funds that are equal-weighted . In these funds , the managers have chosen to purchase all 500 of the stocks in the index , but in equal proportions instead of the weighted proportions of the index . These equal-weighted funds will not as closely match the index price as the traditionally weighted index funds . Instead , they might do better or worse than the index , depending on how the individual stocks do . You 'll need to look at the prospectus of the index funds you are interested in to see which approach the fund is taking .
Hope springs eternal in the human breast . No actively managed fund has beaten the indices over a long period of time , but over shorter periods , actively managed funds have beaten the indices quite often , sometimes quite spectacularly , and sometimes even for many years in a row . Examples from the past include Fidelity Magellan and Legg Mason Value Trust . So people buy actively managed funds hoping to cash in on such good performance . The difficulty is , of course , that many people do n't even think about investing in a fund until it is listed in some " Top Forty Funds of last year " compilation , and for many funds , they have already peaked , and new buyers are often disappointed . Some people who invested earlier plan on getting out of the fund before the fund falls flat on its face , and fewer even succeed in doing so . As to why 401k plans often have high-cost actively managed funds , there are several reasons . A most important one is that there are numerous companies that act as administrators of 401k programs and these companies put together package deals of 401k programs ( funds , administrative costs etc ) , and small employers perforce have to choose from one of these packages . Second , there are various rules that have come into existence since the first days of 401k ( and 403b ) programs such as the investment choices must include funds of different types , and actively managed funds ( large cap , small cap etc ) are one of the choices that must be offered . Gone are the days when the only choice was a variable annuity offered by the insurance company administering the 401k program . Finally , program participants also have hopes ( cf. opening sentence ) and used to demand that the 401k program offer a few actively managed funds , not just index funds .
You 're thinking that by rolling over your Roth 401 ( k ) to Roth IRA the whole amount becomes " contribution " . That is not so , you 're not losing the characteristics of the amounts within the account . The grouping rules of <URL> still apply , and you still need to separate contributions from earnings . See specifically this text in the statute : Any distribution allocated to a qualified rollover contribution under clause ( ii ) ( II ) shall be allocated first to the portion of such contribution required to be included in gross income . So no , you do not get to withdraw earnings tax free just because you rolled them over . As a general rule , when you read the IRS pub 590 - consider your rollover from Roth 401 ( k ) as if it was a roll-over from a different Roth IRA . But do consult a tax professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) as there are intricacies . You seem to be confused about various holding period limitations ( " 5-year rules " ) for Roth IRA . There are two : You can not have qualified distributions unless you had the Roth IRA for at least 5 years . You can not withdraw earnings on amounts from conversions without penalty ( additional 10 % ) within the first 5 years of conversion . These are two separate and unrelated limitations . Since you 're talking about Roth 401 ( k ) roll-over - the second one does n't apply , since you did n't do any conversion . The first one does . See <URL> for in-depth discussion on this . In any case , you pay tax ( with or without the additional 10 % penalty ) on distribution attributed to earnings , unless it is qualified distribution .
No , there are no issues . When you form the corp in DE , you pick a business there to serve as your " agent " ( essentially someone who knows to get in contact with you ) . The " agent " will notify you about taxes and any mail you get , but besides the fee they charge you for being the agent , you should file all the taxes directly with DE ( franchise tax is easy to file on the web ) instead of going through the agent and paying a surcharge . When your LLC files taxes , you 'll do so in DE and then the LLC will issue you a federal and state K1 . You 'll file taxes where you reside and use the federal K1 , but I think you might have to file DE state taxes ( unsure about this part , feel free to edit or comment and I 'll correct ) .
An index fund tracks the performance of an index by investing in securities in the benchmark in the same proportions as the benchmark . The funds track their indexes pretty closely , with the following factors contributing to deviations : Dividends . Some indexes exclude the dividends in their numbers , while the fund invested in the stocks of the index earns dividends . This helps the fund outperform the index . Cash . Because of redemptions and contributions , some of the fund 's funds are in cash rather than securities . Example : if 5 % of the fund is in cash , only 95 % is subject to growth or decline . If the market goes up 1 % , the fund 's value goes up 0.95 % . Similarly if the market goes down 1 % the fund loses 0.95 % . This helps the fund outperform in bad markets and underperform in bad markets . Fee : the fund incurs expenses for management , infrastructure , administrative fees , etc. . The index is a theoretical portfolio . This hurts the fund 's performance relative to the index . Trading : Funds incur trading costs any time contributions or redemptions occur . Also some indexes are rebalanced frequently , causing funds that follow them to trade more frequently to keep matched to the benchmark . This hurts performance . Benchmark deviations : While the funds attempt to mirror the index , they can never do it 100 % at all times due to market fluctuations , purchase timings , etc. . This can either hurt or help the performance of the fund . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
At Questrade , based on the commission schedule , does an investor need to buy a minimum of 495 shares ?
It means what it says , 1c per share , but not less than $ 4.95 , meaning you 'll pay $ 4.95 even for one share . The $ 9.95 maximum means that even if you buy 1000 shares , you 'll pay just the $ 9.95 , not that 995 shares are the most they 'll let you trade . seems like a question for <URL>
If you 've got shares in a company that 's filed for U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy , that sucks , it really does . I 've been there before and you may lose your entire investment . If there 's still a market for your shares and you can sell them , you may want to just accept the loss and get out with what you can . However , shares of bankrupt companies are often delisted once bankrupt , since the company no longer meets minimum exchange listing requirements . If you 're stuck holding shares with no market , you could lose everything -- but that 's not always the case : Chapter 11 is n't total and final bankruptcy where the company ceases to exist after liquidation of its assets to pay off its debts . Rather , Chapter 11 is a section of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that permits a company to attempt to reorganize ( or renegotiate ) its debt obligations . During Chapter 11 reorganization , a company can negotiate with its creditors for a better arrangement . They typically need to demonstrate to creditors that without the burden of the heavy debt , they could achieve profitability . Such reorganization often involves creditors taking complete or majority ownership of the company when it emerges from Chapter 11 through a debt-for-equity swap . That 's why you , as an investor before the bankruptcy , are very likely to get nothing or just pennies on the dollar . Any equity you may be left holding will be considerably diluted in value . It 's rare that shareholders before a Chapter 11 bankruptcy still retain any equity after the company emerges from Chapter 11 , but it is possible . But it varies from bankruptcy to bankruptcy and it can be complex as montyloree pointed out . Investopedia has a great article : <URL> . Here 's an excerpt : If a company you 've got a stake in files for bankruptcy , chances are you 'll get back pennies to the dollar . Different bankruptcy proceedings or filings generally give some idea as to whether the average investor will get back all or a portion of his investment , but even that is determined on a case-by-case basis . There is also a pecking order of creditors and investors of who get paid back first , second and last . In this article , we 'll explain what happens when a public company files for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws and how it affects investors . [ ... ] How It Affects Investors [ ... ] When your company goes bankrupt , there is a very good chance you will not get back the full value of your investment . In fact , there is a chance you wo n't get anything back . [ ... ] Wikipedia has a good article on Chapter 11 bankruptcy at <URL> .
If you go to a grocery store and purchase retail gift cards along with other products , and you pay with a credit card , your credit card company generally does not know what you spent the money on ; they do n't get an itemized receipt . * If this is the case with your rewards card , then yes , you would get the cashback reward on the gift cards , because all the credit card company knows is that you spent $ 100 at the grocery store ; they do n't know ( or care , really ) that $ 50 of it was for an Olive Garden gift card . This , of course , should be fairly easy to test . Buy the gift card , wait for your statement , and see if they included the purchase when calculating your rewards . * Note : I do n't have an American Express card , but from some quick googling I see that it is possible that American Express does actually receive itemized billing details on your purchases from some merchants . If your grocery store is sending this data to AmEx , it is possible that the gift cards could be excluded from rewards . But again , I suggest you just test it out and see .
Your ETF will return the interest as dividends . If you hold the ETF on the day before the Ex-Dividend date , you will get the dividend . If you sell before that , you will not . Note that at least one other answer to this question is wrong . You do NOT need to hold on the Record date . There is usually 2 days ( or so ) between the ex-date and the record date , which corresponds to the number of days it takes for your trade to settle . See the rules as published by the SEC : <URL>
1 . What forms do I need to file to receive money from Europe None . Your client can pay you via wire transfer . They need to know your name , address , account number , and the name of your bank , its SWIFT number and its associated address . The addresses and names are required to make sure there are no typos in the numbers . 2 . What forms do I need to file to pay people in Latin America ( or any country outside the US ) None . 1099s only need to be filled out when the contractor has a US tax ID . Make sure they are contractors . If they work for you for more than 2 years , that can create a problem unless they incorporate because they might look like " employees " to the IRS in which case you need to be reporting their identitites to the IRS via a W-8BEN form . Generally speaking any foreign contractor you have for more than 2 years should incorporate in their own country and you bill that corporation to prevent employee status from occurring . 3 . Can I deduct payments I made to contractors from other countries as company expense Of course .
Unissued capital is only a token restriction . When a company is incorporated a maximum number of shares is specified in the legal documentation . Most companies will make this an extremely large number so they never face that limitation . See <URL> . You would n't necessarily expect the stock price to change . The reason a company issues new stock is as a way to raise capital . Although new stock is issued , the cash raised by the sale becomes an Asset on the company 's balance sheet . There 's a good worked example in <URL> . Following a rights issue the Liabilities of the company will increase to account for the increase in owner 's equity , but the Assets will also increase by the same amount with the cash received . Whether the stock price changes will depend upon what price the stock is issued at and on the market 's opinions about the company 's growth potential now it has new capital to invest . If the new stock is issued at the same price as the current market price , there 's no particular reason to expect the share price to change . Again Wikipedia has <URL> . When new stock is issued it is usually offered to existing shareholders first , in proportion to their current holding . If the shareholder decides to purchase the new stock in full then their position wo n't be diluted . If they opt not to buy the new stock , they will now own a smaller percentage of the company as their stocks will make up a smaller part of the now larger number of shares .
A falling exchange rate is an indication of falling confidence in a currency . Countries like Iran or Venezuela , with a <URL> , set their exchange rates at a higher value than the market accepts . Such market expectations may be influenced by poor government management , interventions into markets ( such as nationalising businesses ) or general instability / scarcity . The governments act to manage that uncertainty by limiting the availability of foreign exchange and pegging the exchange rate . Since there is an inadequate supply of trusted foreign currency people turn to informal exchanges in order to hedge their currency risk . This creates a negative feedback loop . People in government who have access to foreign exchange start to trade on informal markets , pocketing the difference in the official and unofficial rates . The increasing gap between the two rates drives increasing informal market exchange and can result in speculative bubbles . Driving instability ( or economic contradiction ) is that the massive and increasing difference between the official and market exchange rates becomes a powerful form of rent for government officials . This drives further state-led rent-seeking behaviour and causes the economy to become even more unstable . If you 're interested in a more formal academic study of how such parallel markets in currency arise , <URL> at the University of Pretoria is a useful source .
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
The cost to you for selling is 3/8 % of a years salary , this is what you wo n't get if you sell . Tough to calculate the what-if scenarios beyond this , since I ca n't quantify the risk of a price drop . Once the amount in he stock is say ,10 % , of a years salary , if you know a drop is coming , a sale is probably worth it , for a steep drop . My stronger focus would be on how much of your wealth is concentrated in that one stock , Enron , and all .
Here are a couple of articles that can help highlight the differences between a broker and an online investment service , which seems to be part of the question that you 're asking . Pay attention to the references at the end of this link . <URL> Investopedia also highlights some of the costs and benefits of each side , broke and online investment services . <URL> To directly answer your question , a broker may do anything from using a website to making a phone call to submitting some other form of documentation . It is unlikely that he is talking directly to someone on the trading floor , as the volume traded there is enormous .
From <URL> : Banq ( also Banc , banc-corp , bancorp , or bancorporation ) is an intentionally erroneous spelling of the word bank , but pronounced the same way . It has been adopted by companies which are not banks but wish to appear as such , and satisfy legal restrictions on the usage of the word bank . ... For instance , if the original company is known as Bank of America , then the new investment banking entity may be known as Banc of America Securities LLC . If the original company is known as Bank of Manhattan , then its insurance business might be known as " Banc of Manhattan Insurance " and its holding company might be called " Manhattan Bancorp " . This practice originates from legal necessity : Under the laws of most states , a corporation may only use the word " bank " in its name if it has obtained a banking charter under state or federal banking laws . So , " Banc of America " is the subsidiary of BoA that does n't have appropriate licenses to be called " bank " . Wonders of complex regulation :)
Neither . Market orders are executed immediately ( assuming there 's a sell/buy pair of orders that can be matched ) , and the matching between the buyer and the seller is done by the exchange , not the broker . The sell price for the seller is the buy price for the buyer , always ( for stocks ) .
An article linked from <URL> has some great advice , which I think are good rules of thumb . Do n't file a small claim . A claim should be at least $ 200 beyond your deductible before you file , and quite possibly further . Stick with one company . They are more likely to forgive than if you switch companies constantly . If your Homeowners and Auto insurance are through the same provider , they are less likely to want to lose you business Keep your home safe , such that you are less likely to need insurance claims . Put in burglary protection , trim trees , etc. . Also , at least my insurance gives a premium price for those who have n't filed a claim in 5 or more years for homeowners or rental insurance . See if you have a similar discount , will loose it , and guess how much that will cost you over 5 years . My rule of thumb : Your premium might go up quite a bit , possibly as much as triple , especially for a large claim . But , it is certainly worth it if you are going to get more than triple your premium through your claim . The worst case : Mortgage mandated insurance , which will be about triple your current cost .
Books would be considered Personal-Use Property according to Canada 's income tax laws . The most detailed IT I was able to find is <URL> , which says : GAINS AND LOSSES 3 &#46; A gain on the disposition of personal-use property is normally a capital gain within the meaning of paragraph 39 ( 1 ) ( a ) . Where the property is a principal residence , the gain > is computed under paragraph 40 ( 2 ) ( b ) or ( c ) . 4 &#46; Under subparagraph 40 ( 2 ) ( g ) ( iii ) , a loss on a disposition of personal-use property , other than listed personal property , is deemed to be nil . [ ... ] This part of the bulletin indicates that a gain might be considered a capital gain - not income . However , you do n't get to book a loss as a capital loss . This is the first hint that your book sale - which is actually an exempt capital loss - should n't go on your tax return unless it 's one of the " listed " items : LISTED PERSONAL PROPERTY 7 &#46; Listed personal property is defined in paragraph 54 ( e ) to mean personal-use property that is all or any portion of , or any interest in or right to , any ( a ) print , etching , drawing , painting , sculpture , or other similar work of art , ( b ) jewellery , ( c ) rare folio , rare manuscript , or rare book , ( d ) stamp , or ( e ) coin . So unless you 're selling rare books , the disposition ( sale ) of them is essentially exempt as income , regardless of whether you sold it at a profit or at a loss . If it is rare , then you might be able to consider it a capital loss , which does n't help you much unless you had other capital gains , but you can carry over capital losses to future years . There 's also a newer IT related to hobbies and " collecting " items , <URL> . This one says : 11 &#46; In order for any activity or pursuit to be regarded as a source of income , there must be a reasonable expectation of profit . Where such an expectation does not exist ( as is the case with most hobbies ) , neither amounts received nor expenses incurred are included in the income computation for tax purposes and any excess of expenses over receipts is a personal or living expense , the deduction of which is denied by paragraph 18 ( 1 ) ( h ) . On the other hand , if the hobby or pastime results in receipts of revenue in excess of expenses , that fact is a strong indication that the hobby is a venture with an expectation of profit ; if so , the net income may be taxable as income from a business . The current version of IT-504 , Visual Artists and Writers , discusses the concept of " a reasonable expectation of profit " in greater detail . Where a hobby consists of collecting personal-use property or listed personal property , dispositions should be accounted for as described in the current version of IT-332 , Personal-Use Property . ( emphasis mine ) In other words , if it 's not the type of thing where you 'd make a tax deduction when you bought it in the first place , then you clearly do n't need to report it as income when you sell it . Just to be absolutely clear here : The fact that you are selling them at a loss is not actually what 's important here . What 's important is that , if the books are n't collectibles , then you would have had no expectation of profit . If you did have that expectation then you could have made a tax deduction when you first purchased them . So in this case , it is probably not necessary for you to report the income ; however , for the benefit of other readers , in some cases you might need to report it under " other income " or book it as a capital gain/loss , depending on what those personal items are and whether or not you made a net profit .
Insurance on something that you could replace out of your own pocket is almost always not worth it . If you have the discipline to put $ 1,000 in a savings account , and only use that to replace the phone , you 'll be ahead , plus you 'll also get to pocket the interest .
I think not . I think a discussion of optimum mix is pretty independent of age . While a 20 year old may have 40 years till retirement , a 60 year old retiree has to plan for 30 years or more of spending . I 'd bet that no two posters here would give the same optimum mix for a given age , why would anyone expect the Wall Street firms to come up with something better than your own gut suggests ?
" Minimum investment " is what you need to put into the account to open it . They may charge you maintenance fees if you fall below some amount , but once you 're in you 're in . They 'll be more than happy to take their management fee . :)
The Roth IRA is worth it . My initial reaction - there are no " fees and stuff " and your colleagues do n't know what they are talking about . That said it depends on your IRA provider . You will setup the Roth IRA with a bank , credit union or brokerage . If they charge something , go elsewhere - another bank , Vanguard , etc. . Remember an IRA is different from a 401k . An IRA is also just a label , not an account . The vehicle/account/place you put your money can be a CD , money market account or mutual fund . You could put $ 1000 into an IRA CD and $ 1000 into an IRA mutual fund . Next year you can do something different with a different bank . You could hold those two accounts with two different banks even . There is a lot of flexibility and it 's all your own choice . The amount you are legally <URL> to put into an IRA ( Traditional and/or Roth ) is capped each year by whichever is lower : $ 5000 ( though the amount may increase in future years ) Amount you earn ( taxable income ) So if you only earn $ 4000 after taxes in a year , then you can only put $ 4000 max into a Roth IRA . I 've mentioned two different types of IRA ; if that is confusing and you do n't feel like researching/reading further then just choose a Roth IRA . Congrats on saving early !
There are a few reasons why an index mutual fund may be preferable to an ETF : Index mutual funds do n't typically have transaction fees and ETFs usually do because ETFs trade like stocks . If you pursue a dollar cost averaging strategy ( i.e. buying stocks every two weeks ) , ETF transaction costs can add up . Fractional index mutual fund shares can be owned , so you can invest a constant amount in an index mutual fund ( which also works well with a dollar cost averaging strategy ) . You ca n't buy 18.3 shares of an ETF . Similar to stocks , ETFs have liquidity risk . ETFs can trade at a premium or discount to Net Asset Value , similar to a close-ended mutual fund ( this means the price of an ETF can stray from the value of its underlying assets ) . I looked at the <URL> and it has an expense ratio of 0.07 % . The Vanguard Admiral S&amp;P 500 index has an expense ratio of 0.05 % and the Investor Shares have an expense ratio of 0.17 % , do I do n't necessarily agree with your statement " admiral class Vanguard shares do n't beat the iShares ETF " .
It may depend on a couple of things : ( a ) whether the grantors ( your grandparents ) died or not , and ( b ) when . There were some rules <URL> that may affect step-up in basis for grantors to irrevocable trusts that died in 2010 . But I would n't think the basis would be zero in either case . The stocks cost something at some point , and if anything , the stocks ' basis would be at the very least the lower of the market price at the time of purchase or the time of transfer ( step-down in basis ) .
end question
start question
Why is a coin an asset whereas a note is a liability on the Federal Reserve 's balance sheet ?
Coins are assets because its the actual money . Notes are liabilities because the Federal Reserve is obligated to pay money on these notes . Basically a Federal Reserve $ 1 note in your pocket is an " I OWE YOU " from the Federal Reserve , not money . While a <URL> is not a " I OWE YOU " but the actual $ 1 worth of currency . Coins are minted by the US Government , the only authority to mint coins and create physical currency in the US . Federal Reserve does n't mint coins , and does n't create physical currency in the strict sense . It only prints its own obligations that are accepted as legal tender on par with coins . Printing more of the obligations does n't create more money , as opposed to what many people are thinking and saying . It only creates more liability for the Federal Reserve . The Fed covers this liabilities with the US Treasury bonds , which it can use to cover its debts , and thus the Fed notes are covered by the US government indirectly . Coins are no longer made of precious metals since the 1960 's . Last circulating coin made of silver was the <URL> . All the rest of the denominations stopped being made of silver after 1964 . Since then precious metals are only used for collectibles and bulions .
When the market is open , the price displayed is the last traded price . If you are using Google then there may be a delay in which you may be seeing the last traded price 15 + minutes ago . Similarly when the market closes , the price you see is the last traded price prior to the close .
Without having researched that particular fund , I believe that they bought bonds in the past , say five years ago , interest rates were higher . As the interest rates have dropped , those bonds became more valuable , so their price rose . As a result what you are seeing is not just the direct interest rate that bonds have , but also the boost that bonds get when interest rates fall . Of course , in the future , if interest rates should rise , then you 'll see the opposite effect where bond funds will deliver lower returns .
Sounds like you 've got a good approach on the cost/benefit calculation and just lack one of the variables . My own findings are confirming that information on specific insurance company defensive driving discounts are n't generally disclosed , and discounts are n't consistent across companies . Some insurance company pages I found do confirm many offer a discount , but not exactly what percentage that discount would be . Further browsing revealed : an <URL> : " they offer a 10 % discount if I take a defensive driving class " a mention from <URL> & sup1 ; that " Some insurance companies give a reduction in rates to course participants " -- meaning , other insurance companies might not ! <URL> : " Courses may also qualify the student for a discount on car insurance . " [ my emphasis ] An <URL> stating " varies [ ... ] but discounts of 5-15 % are common . " So if we told you " between zilch and 15 % " , does that satisfy or would you still be wondering ? ;-) I think you need to seek out information specific to your case . IIWY , I would call my car insurance company and ask : " If I qualified for your defensive driving discount , how much would I be paying for my policy , all else being equal ? What specific or kinds of courses would qualify me ? Online , or in-car only ? " It 's in their interest to inform you on this , since better trained policy-holders are less likely to claim . & sup1 ; Note : I do n't endorse any particular company ; this was just an example from my search results .
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
Some banks waive the normal holds for check clearance for paychecks .
" Minimum investment " is what you need to put into the account to open it . They may charge you maintenance fees if you fall below some amount , but once you 're in you 're in . They 'll be more than happy to take their management fee . :)
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
Is there any practical reason ... to hold off on making payments until I receive a billing statement ? Yes , a few : You <URL> . If there is an issue with your purchase , you have better ability to file a dispute with the credit card company . You have additional liquidity , so that ( in an extreme example ) if someone comes up and demands lots of money or they 'll kill you , you might have enough that you can stay alive for a bit longer . This also applies to other sudden unexpected expenses , especially ones that ca n't go on a credit card . Parking or traffic tickets , for example , often ca n't be paid with credit card and are lower amounts if you pay early ( though it 's best to just not get them at all if you can avoid them ) . The extra liquidity sometimes buys you a little more time and financial breathing room . <URL> , you get the float , but especially in our current low-interest-rate environment that might not matter that much unless your bank balance is near some boundary point there 's an incentive to stay above . <URL> , at least some credit cards report your balance due and ( sometimes ) payments made to at least some credit bureaus and this information shows up on your credit report when requested by lenders ( or by you ; you can and should request/review a free copy at least yearly ) . An account that regularly shows $ 0 balance due and $ 0 high balance shows up as an account that 's not actively used . Regularly borrowing and paying off money demonstrates you 're a more reliable repayer than someone who just does n't use the card , and it helps your credit score to have a small but nonzero balance reported , which you pay off in full without incurring interest charges . <URL> has more detail , at least nominally including quotes from reliable sources : As for a zero balance , FICO consumer affairs manager Barry Paperno says , " The idea here is the lower , the better , in terms of the utilization percentage , but something is better than nothing ... The score wants to see some kind of activity . " How low should you go ? In a recent interview , FICO spokesman Craig Watts said , " If your utilization is 10 percent or lower , you 're in great shape as far as utilization goes . " That being said , there are downsides especially if you wind up forgetting to make a payment . The easiest thing to do ( also from a time management perspective ) is to get your billing statement once a month , verify the purchases on it , and at that time you receive the statement schedule an online bill payment so that it will be paid in full before the due date . <URL> , you do n't have to wait for a paper bill in hand or even an e-mail notification ; you can go online after your statement date to get the statement . This makes sure you wo n't have extra costs related to unreliability of mail ( if you still receive paper statements ) / e-mail , though it does require remembering to check ( and/or setting a recurring calendar reminder ) . Paying much in advance of that , as is your current practice , might be a good idea to free up available balance if you are planning a purchase that would take you over your credit limit , but this should be relatively rare ( and some credit card companies will raise that limit if you have been paying well and ask nicely , though find out first if they do a " hard pull " of your credit report for that ) .
By a remarkable coincidence , there actually is a title " Balance Sheets for Dummies " . I 've not read this particular title , but the series has yet to disappoint . If you 'd like a start , the 6 page <URL> is a decent article .
The fund should be reporting returns net of expenses , so your interpretation is right ; it made something like 0.42 % ( which sounds plausible , based on current yields on short-term securities ) , and the 0.05 % is what 's left after expenses . I 've never seen a regular mutual fund report raw returns before expenses . If one does , the my personal opinion would be that they 're trying to snooker you , as that number is n't actually representative of anybody 's actual returns . If you look carefully , you should be able to find a table that reports several kinds of adjusted returns for the fund : Returns before taxes ( but after expenses ) . Loosely speaking , this is the return you would have gotten if you held the fund in a tax-sheltered account like an IRA . Returns after taxes on distributions . Any interest or dividends paid out by the fund will have taxes due . This figure should tell you how your account balance would have grown over time , if you held the fund in a taxable account . Returns after taxes on sale of shares . When you sell your shares in the fund , you will owe taxes on the amount by which the shares have appreciated since you bought them . Therefore , this figure represents what you would have actually realized had you bought and held the shares for the specified amount of time ( typically 1 , 3 , 5 , or 10 years ) . A money market mutual fund probably wo n't report this number because they manage their distributions to keep their share value at exactly $ 1 . As to what happens if a fund ca n't earn enough returns to cover its expenses , in that case the value of the fund shares will decrease . This happens from time to time with riskier funds . It should n't happen with a money market fund because both the returns and the expenses are fairly predictable , so the fund managers should be able to avoid it , unless they get caught up in a major crisis like the 2008 banking crisis . In ordinary times , a money market fund managers who could n't keep expenses below income would find themselves looking for a new job fairly quickly . Finally , for what it 's worth , 0.37 % is a really high expense ratio for a money market fund . If you were to shop around , you could easily find comparable funds with expenses less than half that .
The US mint produces several gold coins . The two that are produced each year are the American Buffalo , which is 24k gold , and the ( much older ) American Gold Eagle , which is 22k . Both coins are bullion coins minted in specific fraction of Troy ounces ( 1 oz to 1/10 oz ) , although they also bear a face value , which is much lower than their metal value . The mint produces these bullion coins in normal finish , and distribute them from a series of dealers . There are many large sellers of gold in the US , and they are generally competitive and reliable as long as you stick to those bullion ( and not rare , antique , or so called investment grade ) coins . Examples include Kitco , Blanchard , and Apmex . The mint also strikes these coins in special proof , reverse proof , etc finish for collectors . It sells these coins both directly and through its network of retailers . Those coins are sold at a high premium over melt value , and are a very dicey proposition from an investment return standpoint . The US mint also produces a variety of commemorative coins , some of which are minted in gold and silver . These gold coins are typically 22k , and contrary to the bullion coins above , they are minted in weights that mimic those of the old , pre-1929 circulation gold coins . They are not simple fraction of Troy ounces . Here is an example of a commemorative for 2011 : - <URL> - <URL>
Trusts are useful for a number of situations , country-centric or not . If there are inheritance tax issues , a trust as owner of the insurance policy can help keep the insurance payout out of the deceased 's estate . If a beneficiary is n't capable of handling a large sum of money , a trust adds a layer of fiduciary responsibility . With that might come the risk of theft as with any third party .
While volume per trade is higher at the open and to a lesser extent at the close , the overall volume is actually lower , on average . Bid ask spreads are widest at the open and to a lesser extent at the close . Generally , bid ask spreads are inversely proportional to overall volumes . Why this is the case has n't been sufficiently clearly answered by academia yet , but some theories are that Liquidity providers in the option market have to rapidly resolve imbalanced dynamic hedges resulting from a gap between the previous day 's closing price and the current day 's opening price , Imbalances from overnight trading in foreign markets between the price overseas and in the US provide a brief opportunity for spatial arbitrage , Liquidity providers dynamically hedge at the end of the day in such a way to anticipate the price changes between today 's close and the next open . Day traders prefer to have no overnight exposure thus open positions after the open and close positions after the close , Mutual funds are believed to trade near the close , but there does n't seem to be sufficient evidence to support this , and Traders randomly start and finish their days at different times which would not occur if trading were continuous , allowing volumes to be more constant .
The <URL> pertaining to the subject . In general the best I can say is your business expense may be deductible . But it depends on the circumstances and what it is you want to deduct . Travel Taxpayers who travel away from home on business may deduct related expenses , including the cost of reaching their destination , the cost of lodging and meals and other ordinary and necessary expenses . Taxpayers are considered " traveling away from home " if their duties require them to be away from home substantially longer than an ordinary day 's work and they need to sleep or rest to meet the demands of their work . The actual cost of meals and incidental expenses may be deducted or the taxpayer may use a standard meal allowance and reduced record keeping requirements . Regardless of the method used , meal deductions are generally limited to 50 percent as stated earlier . Only actual costs for lodging may be claimed as an expense and receipts must be kept for documentation . Expenses must be reasonable and appropriate ; deductions for extravagant expenses are not allowable . More information is available in Publication 463 , Travel , Entertainment , Gift , and Car Expenses . Entertainment Expenses for entertaining clients , customers or employees may be deducted if they are both ordinary and necessary and meet one of the following tests : Directly-related test : The main purpose of the entertainment activity is the conduct of business , business was actually conducted during the activity and the taxpayer had more than a general expectation of getting income or some other specific business benefit at some future time . Associated test : The entertainment was associated with the active conduct of the taxpayer 's trade or business and occurred directly before or after a substantial business discussion . Publication 463 provides more extensive explanation of these tests as well as other limitations and requirements for deducting entertainment expenses . Gifts Taxpayers may deduct some or all of the cost of gifts given in the course of their trade or business . In general , the deduction is limited to $ 25 for gifts given directly or indirectly to any one person during the tax year . More discussion of the rules and limitations can be found in Publication 463 . If your LLC reimburses you for expenses outside of this guidance it should be treated as Income for tax purposes . Edit for Meal Expenses : Amount of standard meal allowance . The standard meal allowance is the federal M&amp;IE rate . For travel in 2010 , the rate for most small localities in the United States is $ 46 a day . <URL> Alternately you could reimburse at a <URL>
The intent behind your question defeats the purpose of investing in this fund . The point of " go anywhere " funds is to get away from Morningstar style boxes . You should not even seek to categorize this fund in your asset allocation . Rather , if you tend to make your investment decisions based on the relatively narrowly defined Morningstar style boxes , you should not invest in this fund . This particular fund seems like the only appropriate category for it would be " equity " , so if you tend to make an asset allocation decision between fixed income and equity , you could at least continue to use this fund as part of that allocation .
A simple response is that it 's a good political/strategic move . Ford have effectively said , " We know we still have debt , but we think the long term future is so good we can go back to paying dividends . " It builds investor confidence and attracts new money . It can also be seen as a way of Ford indicating that they believe the type of debt ( regardless of the amount ) is okay for them to carry .
In an adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM ) , the starting interest rate is guaranteed for a certain period . After this period , the rate can go up or down . The monthly payment on these loans is calculated as if the rate never changed over the life of the loan . However , if the rate does change , the monthly payment also changes to cover the change in interest so that the mortgage is still paid off in the same amount of time . Using your example , let 's say that you have a 25-year mortgage that is a 5-year ARM . The initial interest rate is 3 % , which means that for the first 5 years , your rate is fixed at 3 % . The monthly payment for those first 5 years is the same as it would be if you had a 25-year fixed rate mortgage at 3 % . Here is the formula : <URL> where : P = monthly payment L = Loan amount c = monthly interest rate . This is the annual interest rate divided by 12 . n = number of months in the loan ( years * 12 ) In our example , if the loan is $ 100,000 , the interest rate is 3 % ( monthly interest rate is 0.25 % , or 0.0025 ) , and the number of months is 300 ( 25 years ) , the monthly payment will be $ 474.21 . Now , 5 years into a 25 year mortgage , the <URL> tells us that the remaining principal will be $ 85,505.48 . So if the rate jumps to 4 % at that point in time , the monthly payment will be recalculated so that the loan is still paid off in the original 25-year time . To find the new payment , use the above formula again , but this time L = $ 85,505.48 , c = 0.04 / 12 = 0.0033333 , and n = 20 * 12 = 240 . The new monthly payment is $ 518.15 . If , instead , you had a loan where the payment will be constant over the entire loan period , but the interest rate changes during the period ( this is not common ) , there is a formula for that as well . See <URL> for the details .
Given the context , I 'd imagine you need to give at least 24 hours notice of viewings so that the landlord can inform the tenant ( probably due to a clause in the lease )
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
end question
start question
How quickly does decreasing credit utilization affect your credit score ?
Your credit report has no historic utilization rates ( although it will note the highest balance you have had on a particular line of credit ) . It only factors in the last reported statements from your creditors . The actual delay depends on a combination of the creditor and the reporting agency . It will usually range from 1-3 months . If you have no plans to have your credit pulled in the near future , your utilization rate should not be a major concern .
They have a relationship with Transunion . Soft . No record of the credit pull on your report . No It 's supplied by one of the three large scoring agencies . There is no one FICO score , each of the big three will differ a bit .
Credit utilization , when you 're talking about your credit report/credit score , is based on what is reported to it by the credit card companies . This means several things . First , most companies only report your balance periodically . Monthly is most common , though other frequencies can apply ; you would have to talk to your card issuer to find out exactly what they do . Most often , they report your <URL> , which is the amount that was finalized on your card as of the statement date . That amount would n't typically contain ' pending ' charges , though the issuer usually allows some time for pending charges to be finalized before issuing the statement . Since they often report the statement balance , if that 's the case with your issuer , you may need to pay your balance more than once a month to keep utilization low . They may also report on the first of the month rather than the statement balance , in which case you 'd want to contact the issuer to find out exactly when they report . You can usually identify the statement balance , if that 's what they report , by checking your credit report periodically and comparing the reported balance to your past statements .
The short float ratio and percent change are all calculated based on the short interest ( the total number of shares shorted ) . The short interest data for Nasdaq and NYSE stocks is published every two weeks . <URL> shows the exact dates for when short interest is published for Nasdaq stocks , and also says the following : FINRA member firms are required to report their short positions as of settlement on ( 1 ) the 15th of each month , or the preceding business day if the 15th is not a business day , and ( 2 ) as of settlement on the last business day of the month . * The reports must be filed by the second business day after the reporting settlement date . FINRA compiles the short interest data and provides it for publication on the 8th business day after the reporting settlement date . The <URL> also shows the exact dates for when short interest is published for NYSE stocks , and those dates are exactly the same as for Nasdaq stocks . Since the short interest is only updated once every 2 weeks , there is no way to see real-time updating of the short float and percent change . That information only gets updated once every 2 weeks - after each publication of the short interest .
If they told you that the move wo n't affect your credit score , it wo n't . As you noted , neither MasterCard or Visa are the ones that hold your account ; the bank is . They are telling you that it is a new account , but that is just bookkeeping . As far as you are concerned , it is the same account , as all your history is moving from the old account to the new . If the bank is reporting it to the credit agencies in the same way , it wo n't affect your score . The fact that the account number is changing does n't matter ; credit card account numbers change all the time .
<URL> That 's the official site for getting your free yearly credit report ( one free per year from each of the 3 reporting bureaus ) .
If you mean closing credit card accounts it will hurt your credit score in two ways : 1 ) It will reduce your available credit , which in turn will increase the utilization percentage of your credit if you owe a balance on any other card . 2 ) It will reduce the average age of your open accounts unless it was the last card you obtained .
It could be due to your " Credit Utilization " rate . If you have one credit card with a limit of $ 5,000 and charge $ 4,500 each month and pay it off in full you 'll get dinged . If you look at your credit report , per links in others ' comments , they 'll typically have a value that shows the maximum balance you had at any time . If this max balance exceeds 50 % ( maybe as low as 33 % now ) of your total revolving credit line it is viewed as a negative . The assumption is that you are living beyond your means and are at a high risk for late payments , default or bankruptcy . Suggestions : for 6 months do n't have a balance that exceeds 25 % of your total revolving credit limit , then check your score request a credit line increase but do n't increase the amount you charge to the card open additional credit card accounts but do n't use them . This will increase your total revolving credit limit , thereby reducing the utilization rate for your first card . Note you will need to use the other cards ' occasionally ' to prevent a non-use closure 1 is the best option as # 2 &amp; 3 will immediately lower your credit score . Assuming you do n't change your spending patterns then the impact to your score from # 2 &amp; 3 should be shortlived .
Apparently it is up to the credit card company on how they want to report your available balance . Another disadvantage to the no-limit credit card may not be apparent to most people , but it is something noted by organizations like The Motley Fool , which is expert in many issues of finance and investment . Part of your credit score , about 30 % , considers the amount of money you have borrowed , and the limit on your present credit cards . A no-limit credit card company may report your limit as $ 0 if you have not used the card , or they may report a maximum limit available to you . They may not , nor are they obligated , to report times when you put tons of expenses on a credit card and then paid them off . While some companies will report your timely payments and paid off amounts , others simply report an extremely low limit . For instance if you spent $ 100 US Dollars ( USD ) , your limit might be considered $ 100 USD , or it may merely be reported as zero . You 'll need to check with a credit card company on how they report payments and limits on a no-limit credit card before you obtain one . Some people who are scrupulous are paying off their cards at the end of each month suffer major losses to their credit score , without even realizing it , if their spending ability is rated at zero , or their payments do n't count toward showing credit worthiness . <URL>
Paying off your loan in full will most likely not help your credit score , and could potentially even hurt it . Because car loans are installment loans ( and thus differ from consumer credit ) , lenders really only like seeing that you responsibly pay off your loans on time . They do n't really care if you pay it off early -- lenders like seeing open lines of credit as long as you manage them well . The hard inquiry will simply lower your credit score a few points for up to two years . So , from a credit score perspective , you 're really not going to help yourself in this scenario ( although it 's not like you 're going to be plummeting yourself either ) .
If I had a business and was able to claim a feature , I would . It 's simple marketing . If in fact , opting out helped your score , the site would promote that feature . Soft pulls for prescreened offers are not counted . No more than my constant peek at my score through Credit Karma . Opt out , if you wish . The benefit of course is less mail , which saves trees . Less risk of identity theft , someone can take the application and try to forge from there . Less risk of an infected paper cut opening this mail ( do n't ask . ) I am a compulsive mail shredder , so I peek and these and shred . A year ago I received an offer of $ 30,000 zero interest , max transfer fee $ 50 . I sent the entire sum to my 5 % mortgage . Now I refinanced and paying that back . It saved me $ 1500 over the year . Too much trouble for some , but how long does it take to make $ 1500 ? For 40 % of this country 's families , that 's a week 's pay . The monthly extra bill did n't bother me . This last paragraph is an anecdote , not so much addressing question . I did that first .
Your credit utilization is calculated on your closing date when your statement is posted , and only then does it affect your credit score . Also , utilization affects your score in <URL> , which means that if you have high credit utilization one month , e.g. when you buy tickets home , but low credit utilization the next month , your credit score will reflect the most recent utilization . You should n't necessarily stress about the months where you have high utilization ; just keep your utilization lower the next month . If you still want to keep your utilization low every month , <URL> , if you can afford it . Be sure to leave some balance on your card on your closing date , however , because 0 % utilization is n't good for your score either . As long as you leave a small balance on the card when your statement is posted , your credit score will reflect a low utilization . If you can also quickly acquire credit limit increases , though , that 's another good way to lower your utilization , as long as it does n't lead you to spend too much .
Your social security number is broken into parts which you noted , the first basically what state ( variations in the number designate which county ) and the middle is group ( basically if you were to slice the country into strips vertically , which one you are in ) and finally the last 4 which do appear to be random but are actually based on unique algorithms used from each state that generate the first 3 numbers based on your DOB , last name , DOI and the last digit is what number of people have that number and you increment . So for example , if your info yields 123x and there are 4 people with that as well , you become 1235 and if you are say the 46th person with that , you become 1276 and etc. . Now the combination of state , group yield which algorithm to use and applies it to the last 4 to see if its valid , if it does n't pass validation , it will be rejected immediately and they usually send you a letter asking you to provide copies of stuff . If it passes the validation , then it allows them to request a soft inquiry of your credit with whichever bureau they happen to use , I believe TU for most , EX for far west and EQ for far east , and go from there . Just keep in mind , its not JUST your DOB and Last 4 , they also have your name . If there is a vague response from the system ( meaning matches multiple people hits ) then OSCAR will use some heuristics to find the best match with your peripheral information but if not , then it will kick it to " further review " where a human needs to take over . Hope that helps .
FICO score tracks credit , not checking or savings . Unless there was a credit line attached , no impact at all .
yes , when you apply for a new loan the loan originator will do a ' hard pull ' on your credit history which will result in your score going down . In my experience your score may go down by 20 points or so . You should be able to recover it fairly soon by making timely payments . I was also told that you can do as many hard pulls as you want within 48 hours and it will effect your just like one pull . So when shopping around for a mortgage probably a good idea to allow them to check your credit score on the same day . Unlike soft pulls when credit card companies just check it for marketing purposes . This does n't effect your credit score . Here some information explaining the difference <URL>
It would n't hurt . Even if you have n't had any credit or loan activity , someone may have gotten a card or a loan under your name : identity theft . That gives you the opportunity to clear things up before you apply the first time . Granted , it may be a long shot , but as littleadv said : " Why not ? "
S&amp;P does n't use a fixed schedule . I emailed Standard and Poor 's Rating Desk to ask , however , and they confirmed that : There is no set schedule for the updating of our Sovereign Credit Ratings . Furthermore , these ratings are reviewed at least once every 1-2 years , and the reports are updated whenever a review is completed . They also sent me a PDF with information on how they rate sovereign debt . I believe the actual PDF is only available to users that register ( their website says registration is free ) , but you can find a <URL> on Google . In the section titled " Process For Rating Government Issuers " , it says : For government issuers , Standard &amp; Poor 's rating process is typically initiated when the issuer or its representative requests a rating for a particular debt issue . ... Most sovereign issuers have rating agreements with us , but some sovereign ratings are classified as " unsolicited " because we do not have a rating agreement with the issuer . We continue to rate these sovereigns when we believe there is significant market interest in them and there is also sufficient public information of reliable quality to support our analysis and ongoing surveillance . The portion I emphasize probably explains why ratings were published more frequent during the height of various debt crises ; not only is the market more interested in credit ratings during such periods , but new information relevant to market conditions was continually coming to light in some cases . On their <URL> , S&amp;P states that their ratings for the UK are unsolicited . I asked for clarification on this and they responded that although there are n't any set dates for such reviews , they usually take place " once or twice a year . " Ratings are published once the review is completed , which according to the document linked above , " typically takes four to six weeks to complete , but can run longer or shorter . " Short answer : You can probably expect new ratings to be published about twice a year for the UK because it 's a sizable economy and major issuer of sovereign debt , but apart from that , S&amp;P does n't follow a set schedule .
You can think of it like this : the credit report is the raw data , and the FICO score is the quick-and-dirty number that sums up for creditors how risky you are . Your FICO score determines whether or not you 're given a credit card or a loan , as well as what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score is calculated based on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of paying your bills on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compared to the total of all your credit limits ( i.e. how much of your credit you 're currently using ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've been applying for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit cards and loans . ( I used Suze Orman 's <URL> to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report lists every creditor you currently or recently have had a relationship with . ( I think old creditors drop off 7 years after the account is closed . ) For each credit card or loan , it lists the date you opened the account , your current balance , the starting balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment was on time , or late . There are three bureaus that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit reports once a year through <URL> . Each of the bureaus will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 months or so . One last note about FICO scores ... the " FICO " part is important . The FICO score is the real one . I 've seen lots of offers from credit cards , etc , offering a " free credit score . " If they 're not saying it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : <URL> . Enjoy !
If you have a bill for $ 100 due at the end of the month and only pay $ 80 of it , you will have failed to meet your obligations and this will be another hit on your credit score . On the other hand , if you pay $ 80 early in the month and $ 20 late in the month , making the full payment before the due date , that would be an example of you meeting your credit obligations and would reflect positively , the same as making a single $ 100 payment . The article is n't talking about making multiple partial payments in a month , it is talking about making single , insufficient , partial payments .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
end question
start question
Can you bill customer service for your time if they were in the wrong ?
Did you have an agreement with the company , in advance , that you were performing a service for them at a stipulated rate ? Else , your " work " was pro-bono , charity , free , whatever you want to call it . Too bad , so sad . On the other hand , if you did suffer demonstrable damages as a result of their error , you could try and pursue it in court , but , 2 hours of your time ? ... good luck with that ;-) Your best bet is to ask for some kind of credit , if you 're willing to put a bit more time into it and talk to the right people at the company . But you might get nothing . While a credit is n't cash , if you were to continue using their services , it 's something , and some companies make it a practice to offer credit to satisfy a long-time customer 's complaint .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
Although I am not a tax professional , and in this case you would be better off with a professional advice , my understanding ( at least of Arizona , New York and California individual tax regulations that I 've been dealing with ) is that you only pay taxes in the state in which you 're domiciled . Lottery winnings are payed by States/State-run corporations and as such sourced to the State that pays it . Buying a ticket in SC links you to the lottery run in that State , even if you live in another . You 'll be claiming your winnings in SC , not in NC , and the winnings will be sourced to SC , not NC . As such SC will be taxing them . NC will be taxing them as well , since you 're NC resident .
For Qualified or Safe Harbor Matching/Profit Sharing they have legal requirements over 59.5 . For everything else it 's based on the plan document what is allowed . The plan document can be ( and usually is ) more restrictive than the law .
She can apply for her own card as well . So long as her credit is ok and she can be approved on her own score , it should n't be an issue . Keep in mind , most airline cards have an annual fee , $ 80 or so , which is why we decided to get the card in my name and I could always get tickets in any family member name . A card in her name will get you the new bonus ( maybe 20,000 miles ? ) but after a year , the fee kicks in .
my taxable income was roughly $ 230,000 in 2012 . Indeed it is relevant . <URL> for deductible IRA contributions is 112K . So no , IRA contribution will not help you reducing your tax bill this year . The deduction phases out starting from AGI limits of $ 10K in certain cases ( for married filing separately ) , and phases out entirely for anyone at AGI of 112K ( for 2012 ) . The table linked describes the various deduction phase-out parameters depending on your filing status , and will probably be updated yearly by the IRS . However this is only relevant if your company provides a retirement plan , as Joe mentioned . If your company does n't provide a retirement plan but your spouse 's does - then <URL> . If neither you nor your spouse ( if you have one ) is covered - then there 's no AGI limit , and you can indeed make an IRA contribution before April 15th that would be attributed to the previous year and reduce your tax bill . Note that " provides " means the plan is available , even if you do n't participate in it , any time during the year .
He will be able to collect the full amount . From <URL> , emphasis added : If you were born January 2 , 1943 , through January 1 , 1955 , , then your full retirement age for retirement insurance benefits is 66 . If you work , and are full retirement age or older , you may keep all of your benefits , no matter how much you earn . If you 're younger than full retirement age , there is a limit to how much you can earn and still receive full Social Security benefits . If you 're younger than full retirement age during all of 2015 , we must deduct $ 1 from your benefits for each $ 2 you earn above $ 15,720 . If you reach full retirement age during 2015 , we must deduct $ 1 from your benefits for each $ 3 you earn above $ 41,880 until the month you reach full retirement age .
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
Do you still enjoy living in your home ? Can you afford the mortgage payments ? Is there a reason for you to move , such as a relocation for work , or your third kid is on the way and your current house is already crowded with two ? Those questions are more important than " Is my home worth more than what I owe on it " . Ultimately , it 's your home . You probably chose it for more than just its price , and those qualities should still make it valuable to you in some way beyond the monetary value which goes up and down with the market . You have a few options : Walk away . This would make sense if you do n't want to live there anyway , or if you really ca n't afford it ( lost your job , etc. ) You will destroy your credit rating by taking this route . Talk with your bank . If you can afford your payments and everything , they are n't likely to give you anything , but if you have a good relationship with them , maybe they will . It 's worth a try . Stay in your home long enough that your head is above water again . You 're paying down your mortgage , and home values track inflation over the long term . Eventually those curves will cross . This may be ten years out , but if you enjoy living there and it 's still the " right home for you " , why not stay ?
It costs money to pull credit information , and there 's a record of who requested the info . And hard pulls are only a temporary , short-term ding on your score . Basically , if someone wants to make trouble , there are better ways to do so .
If you 're a cash-based taxpayer then you only recognize the income you 've actually received . If you 're accrual tax payer , then you recognize the income invoiced . How you deal with the missing $ 20 , if you 're accrual basis , depends on why they 're missing . If they just decided to not pay it - then it 's accounts receivable , until you either sue them to recover , or they declare bankruptcy , or you find another way to write it off ( talk to your licensed tax adviser about the legal ways to write unrecoverable debts off ) . If the fee is something you 've agreed to , then you write it down as an expense , provided they provide you with documentation and your contract supports the fee . While you do n't need to account for it if you 're cash-based , I suggest you check the legality of their actions nonetheless . Talk to your lawyer .
You ca n't really tell if a website is legitimate or not just by looking at it . In fact , it 's the same thing for every ( not widely used ) internet service , not only for forex signaling services . They will be asking for money to access the private part of the website ( or email subscription ... ) to access the service . And since you ca n't be sure of the quality of the service before paying , you can be scammed . What you can easily do , is try to find the information of the society holding the website . If the site is legitimate , there should be an " about us " section somewhere which discloses information about the company ( like registration number or name ) . With those references , in some countries , you can access a database of registered companies , thus trying to find is there is really something serious behind the website ( I often do that before an interview to get financial information and the owners ' names ) . But , the owner of the services could try to impersonate a company by putting false information , so , just ask the company more information about the signaling service , if its not theirs , they will tell you . Also , even if the company is legitimate , that does not mean that they wo n't try to scam you ( like Madoff ) . But if they do , at least you know what/who is behind the website , which makes it easier to find them in case there is a problem . Also , most scam websites do n't have an address on the contact us page . ( Most do n't have a " contact us " page at all . ) Be aware of such websites . Never give in to websites that promise huge return on investments . These are scammers and they try to tempt you and then loot you . You might end up losing money and personal financial information like your credit card number , bank details , etc. .
What does this mean and how do you do it ? Consider that there are may be more than a few different objectives when it comes to investing : Retirement College education Vacation Home purchase as new primary residence Investment property purchase Emergency fund Each of these is a different objective that can have different timelines , objectives for the money as well as possible accounts and investment choices . In a sense the question could be stated as " How much money do you need and when do you need it ? " Is it trying to figure out how much money you hope to have for retirement , or does it include short term expenses The objective could be retirement but does n't have to be . The short term expenses can be included in various ways . The retirement funds could include what kind of method would be used to make sure expenses can be met as if one is looking at retirement just a few years away the " short term expenses " may come up as part of the retirement living .
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
the <URL> in this exact situation . On page 4 : Gross receipts DOES NOT include : Tax billed to the buyer ( i.e. , gross receipts tax , governmental gross receipts tax , leased vehicle gross receipts tax , interstate telecommunications gross receipts tax and local option taxes ) . Example : When the seller passes tax to the buyer , the seller should separate , or " back out " , that tax from the total income to arrive at " Gross Receipts , " the amount reported in Column D of the CRS-1 Form . ( Please see the example on page 48 . ) and on page 48 : How do I separate ( " back out " ) gross receipts tax from total gross receipts ? See the following examples of how to separate the gross receipts tax : 1 ) To separate ( back out ) tax from total receipts at the end of the report period , first subtract deductible and exempt receipts , and then divide total receipts including the tax for the report period by one plus the applicable gross receipts tax rate . For example , if your tax rate is 5.5 % and your total receipts including tax are $ 1,055.00 with no deductions or exemptions , divide $ 1,055.00 by 1.055 . The result is your gross receipts excluding tax ( to enter in Column D of the CRS-1 Form ) or $ 1,000 . 2 ) If your tax rate is 5.5 % , and your total gross receipts including tax are $ 1,055.00 , and included in that figure are $ 60 in deductions and another $ 45 in exemptions : a ) Subtract $ 105 ( the sum of your deductions and exemptions ) from $ 1,055 . The remainder is $ 950 . This figure still includes the tax you have recovered from your buyers . b ) Divide $ 950 by 1.055 ( 1 plus the 5.5 % tax rate ) . The result is $ 900.47 . c ) In Column D enter the sum of $ 900.47 plus $ 60 ( the amount of deductible receipts ) * , or $ 960.47 . This figure is your gross receipts excluding tax .
It is true that this is possible , however , it 's very remote in the case of the large and reputable fund companies such as Vanguard . FDIC insurance protects against precisely this for bank accounts , but mutual funds and ETFs do not have an equivalent to FDIC insurance . One thing that does help you in the case of a mutual fund or ETF is that you indirectly ( through the fund ) own actual assets . In a cash account at a bank , you have a promise from the bank to pay , and then the bank can go off and use your money to make loans . You do n't in any sense own the bank 's loans . With a fund , the fund company can not ( legally ) take your money out of the fund , except to pay the expense ratio . They have to use your money to buy stocks , bonds , or whatever the fund invests in . Those assets are then owned by the fund . Legally , a mutual fund is a special kind of company defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 , and is a separate company from the investment advisor ( such as Vanguard ) : <URL> Funds have their own boards , and in principle a fund board can even fire the company advising the fund , though this is not likely since boards are n't usually independent . ( a quick google found this article for more , maybe someone can find a better one : <URL> ) If Vanguard goes under , the funds could continue to exist and get a new adviser , or could be liquidated with investors receiving whatever the assets are worth . Of course , all this legal stuff does n't help you with outright fraud . If a fund 's adviser says it bought the S&amp;P 500 , but really some guy bought himself a yacht , Madoff-style , then you have a problem . But a huge well-known ETF has auditors , tons of different employees , lots of brokerage and exchange traffic , etc. so to me at least it 's tough to imagine a risk here . With a small fund company with just a few people - and there are lots of these ! - then there 's more risk , and you 'd want to carefully look at what independent agent holds their assets , who their auditors are , and so forth . With regular mutual funds ( not ETFs ) there are more issues with diversifying across fund companies : becomes tough to rebalance you may not qualify for lower expenses and fees ( Vanguard and probably many others lower your fees if you have more assets with them ) more risk of someone breaking in to your online accounts just because you have more increased complexity is never good , since it leads to procrastinating and less clarity With ETFs , there probably is n't much downside to diversifying since you could buy them all from one brokerage account . Maybe it even happens naturally if you pick the best ETFs you can find . Personally , I would just pick the best ETFs and not worry about advisor diversity . Update : maybe also deserving a mention are exchange-traded notes ( ETNs ) . An ETN 's legal structure is more like the bank account , minus the FDIC insurance of course . It 's an IOU from the company that runs the ETN , where they promise to pay back the value of some index . There 's no investment company as with a fund , and therefore you do n't own a share of any actual assets . If the ETN 's sponsor went bankrupt , you would indeed have a problem , much more so than if an ETF 's sponsor went bankrupt .
Sounds like you need a cash account . Suggest you do as follows : Add an account to represent cash on hand -- let 's call it " Cash " . Record a deposit of the full $ 750 to " Cash " . Record the payment of the vendor 's invoice from " Cash " . Record the deposit/transfer from " Cash " to your checking account . This better models what actually happened in real life , rather than trying to adapt things into a system that lacks a cash account .
The Homebuyers Tax Credit was unrelated to whether or not a mortgage was part of the purchase . You will have no issue with this credit if you refinance .
FBAR is enforced by the IRS , and OVDP is administered by the IRS , and as part of the program your tax returns will be examined . So I 'd personally say that the answer is yes - treat it as part of the tax preparation fees . If you want to deduct tax preparation fees , you can do it as part of your itemized deductions , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold , so yes - you have to itemize . It is entered on <URL> .
end question
start question
How do I export or sync data from TD Ameritrade into Google Finance or another online Finance site ?
<URL> is one alternative . If you want the raw data in CSV format , you can use " Export " feature under
Credit card , without a doubt . The reason is dispute resolution . If you dispute a charge on debit card - the money has left your account already , and if the dispute was accepted - you 'll get it back . If . Eventually . In the mean time your overdraft will be missing $ $ $ . For credit cards , you can catch a fraud action before the money actually leaves your pocket and dispute it then . In this case the charge is set aside , and you will only be required to actually pay if the dispute is rejected . I.e. : The money stays in your pocket , until the business proves that the charge is legit . In both cases , if the dispute is justified ( i.e. : there was indeed a fraud ) neither you nor the bank will lose money at the bottom line , it 's just who 's got the money during the dispute resolution process ( which may be lengthy ) that matters .
The OP invests a large amount of money each year ( 30-40k ) , and has significant amount already invested . Some in the United States that face this situation may want to look at using the bonus to fund two years worth of IRA or Roth IRA . During the period between January 1st and tax day they can put money into a IRA or Roth IRA for the previous year , and for the current year . The two deposits might have to be made separately , because the tax year for each deposit must be specified . If the individual is married , they can also fund their spouses IRA or Roth IRA . If this bonus is this large every year , the double deposit can only be done the first time , but if the windfall was unexpected getting the previous years deposit done before tax day could be useful . The deposits for the current year could still be spread out over the next 12 months . EDIT : Having thought about the issue a little more I have realized there are other timing issues that need to be considered . If the decision is made to spread the deposits over a long period of time , there are still investment minimums that need to be considered . Assume $ 65K to be invested this year , that would be ~ $ 5400 a month , If the decision is to fund several investments ( Large Company , emerging markets , bonds ) and if these are new funds , the deposits may have to be lumpier than desired to make sure that the minimums are reached . Keep in mind that the OP currently invests daily and weekly . In a similar concern , some funds/investment companies change fees and classes of funds based on the amount invested in their funds , getting to those minimums quickly has advantages . Another type of investment also has deadlines : putting money into a 529 . Unfortunately to credit the investment for a year it must be done by December 31st . The amount of money that can be invested in one year , the maximum tax credit/deduction , and lifetime maximums depend on the state .
Most of the points by MrChrister are valid . I ca n't say much for Philippines , however there is a reason for one to go with individual insurance from my experience in India . Most of the insurance require you to stay with them for a period of 3 yrs before some of the other illness are covered under insurance . In this case it makes sense to continue for a single insurance with an insurer of your choice . Sometimes group insurance waive off or reduce the minimum period for some critical illness , you may need to check if there is any such clause in your employees insurance . Most of the company insurance is for a small amount . With rising medical costs this amount may not be sufficeint.Having your own insurance adds to a higher level of cover . For example if your employer has covered you for 100,000 and you have additional 100,000 on your own , and if you get hospitalized for an amount of 150,000 you can still get this covered as your overall limit is now 200,000 . Continuity Clause : Most of the insurance require you to prove that the illness is contracted during the priod of coverage and in certain cases this would be difficult to prove and one could be denied . For example my friend had a fall and a ligament tear , which he ignored for sometime . During this time he also changed jobs and was on other companies Medical Insurance policy . He had to later undergo a surgery to rectify this , but was n't paid because the doctor mentioned that this was pre-existing and could ' nt date this . Having a continious personal insurance will ensure these cases are avoided . Altough one can buy insurance when one is out of job , most of the time one is averse to spending / investing and one ends up not buying an insurance and the risk of this can turn out to be high .
I 'm not sure you can get a refund . In the US , companies are n't required by law to offer one . You could contact GoDaddy 's customer service and ask them , but I would guess that they 'll agree with the contents of the legal agreement . Unless there is another part of the agreement that does allow you to get a refund ( there might be , I have n't read it ) , you 're probably out of luck . And yes , this is legitimate . It 's a legal agreement , and by checking the box ( if there was one ) , going through with the purchase , etc. you indicated that you read and agreed to the legal agreement , and therefore accepted that you would n't be offered a refund . GoDaddy is n't responsible if someone purchases something from them without reading the agreement before agreeing to it . Furthermore , the legal agreement is n't the only place where the refund policy is stated . GoDaddy 's page , <URL> says : Your purchase is non-refundable and non-transferable . This is a help page , not something you explicitly agree to ( and therefore not legally binding ) , but as a lesson for the future , always read the description of what you 're purchasing before you purchase it . For general reference : if for some reason you were the victim of fraud , e.g. a company offered a refund in their legal agreement but refused to give it you , and you paid with a credit card , you have more options because you could work with your credit card company to potentially get your money back . In this case , however , the agreement was clear , so this is n't an option .
Yahoo Finance does n't offer this functionality ; I remember looking for this exact feature a couple of years ago for coffee futures . Your best option is to look at the <URL> . However , Yahoo Finance 's future chains are n't always complete , since you 'll notice that the futures chain for NYMEX crude oil omit the June contract . The contract <URL> , but Yahoo does n't list it in its own futures chain or in the <URL> .
This is a reasonable requirement which many banks probably have . The reason is that after you deposit a check , ACH or direct deposit - they may be reversed after a couple of days ( check bounced , payment canceled , etc ) . If you wire the money out , and then the check by which you got the money gets bounced - the bank is left hanging because money wired out is very hard to return . Wire transfers are generally irreversible unless its a mistake in the wire . After 10 days , these transactions can not be reversed and the money is bound to remain on the account , so you can wire it out . By the way , it also goes for cashier 's checks as well , I had a similar discussion with my banker ( do n't remember if it was WF or Chase ) when I needed one based on a ACH transfer from my savings account elsewhere . They gave me the check , but said that its because I proved that the transfer was from my own account .
All of the above . There are <URL> . Generally the " people with clipboards " is the most reliable , but is also the most expensive , so some might be getting the data directly from the retailers with some <URL> for verification . The " margin of error " percentage is directly related to the method chosen .
You should look into a <URL> : A home equity line of credit ( often called HELOC and pronounced HEE-lock ) is a loan in which the lender agrees to lend a maximum amount within an agreed period ( called a term ) , where the collateral is the borrower 's equity in his/her house . Because a home often is a consumer 's most valuable asset , many homeowners use home equity credit lines only for major items , such as education , home improvements , or medical bills , and choose not to use them for day-to-day expenses .
ATM to ATM transfer is not possible . Do you mean to say account to account transfer using an ATM machine ? Online transfer between account or between an account and credit card is possible . Almost every Bank offers Online transfers using Internet Banking . The person wishing to initiate a Debit must subscribe to Internet Banking . Once you login to Internet Banking , you would need to add beneficiary Account [ account where you need to transfer funds ] . Adding of Beneficiary at times takes a Day for the Beneficiary to be activated . Once the Beneficiary is activated , you can transfer funds . The funds are credited to Beneficiary account within 2 hrs . If the both the accounts are in same bank , then some Bank 's ATM 's [ HDFC / Citi etc ] allow you to transfer funds between account using the Bank 's ATM .
For stock splits , let 's say stock XYZ closed at 100 on February 5 . Then on February 6 , it undergoes a 2-for-1 split and closes the day at 51 . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 51 on Feb 6 , but all of the closing prices for the previous days will be divided by 2 . So for Feb 5 , it will say the closing price was 50 instead of 100 . For dividends , let 's say stock ABC closed at 200 on December 18 . Then on December 19 , the stock increases in price by $ 2 but it pays out a $ 1 dividend . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 200 on Dec 18 and 201 on Dec 19 . Yahoo adjusts the closing price for Dec 19 to factor in the dividend .
In Houston , Texas USA where I went to a private high school they had a half-semester class in personal finance , but it was optional and did n't give you any credits towards graduation . You are right though , it should be a standard class . After all , who does n't need that information in their adult lives , and not everyone goes to college .
It 's not just the US based mailing address for registration or US based credit-card or bank account : even if you had all these , like I do , you will find that these online filing companies do not have the infrastructure to handle non-resident taxes . The reason why the popular online filing companies do not handle non-resident taxes is because : Non-residents require a different set of forms to fill out - usually postfixed NR - like the 1040-NR . These forms have different rules and templates that do not follow the usual resident forms . This would require non-trivial programming done by these vendors All the NR forms have detailed instructions and separate set of non-resident guides that has enough information for a smart person to figure out what needs to be done . For example , check out <URL> . As a result , by reading these most non-residents ( or their accountants ) seem to figure out how the taxes need to be filed . For the remaining others , the numbers perhaps are not significant enough to justify the non-trivial programming that need to be done by these vendors to incorporate the non-resident forms . This was my understanding when I did research into tax filing software . However , if you or anyone else do end up finding tax filing software that does allow non-resident forms , I wil be extremely happy to learn about them . To answer your question : you need to do it yourself or get it done by someone who knows non-resident taxes . Some people on this forum , including me for gratis , would be glad to check your work once you are done with it as long as you relieve us of any liability .
Just so I 'm clear - the end result is a long call , and you think the stock is going up . There is nothing wrong with that fundamentally . Be aware though : That 's a <URL> trade . This means if your stock does n't increase in price during the remaining time to expiration of your call option , the option will lose some of its value every day . It may still lose some of its value every day , depending on how much the stock price increases . The value of the call option just goes down and down as it approaches maturity , even if the stock price stays about the same . Being long a call ( or a put ) is a tough way to make money in the options market . I would suggest using an out-of-the-money butterfly spread . The potential returns are a bit less . However , this is a cheap positive theta trade so you avoid time decay on the value of the option .
Be precise : If you are off by coins , how can you be sure that you only made a typo and did n't miss a transaction ? To start off , I would strongly you find a way to be precise . It does n't matter so much in the accounting , but the habit of doing a thorough job will pay off in other dividends down the line . Good books mean you will understand where you money really went Understanding where your money went , helps you create a trustworthy budget , Having a trustworthy budget will tell you where you need to spend less to achieve a goal Having realistic goals means you can achieve them predictably And getting real results is a positive feedback loop that will help you continue budgeting . Basically , do the pennies now . Tryout some free online software to save the headache of data entry . But ... ... Since my primary goal is to get you to do the budgeting , and if you really hate the coins , just be consistent in how you fudge the debits and the credits . Always round down to the nearest whole in income , and always round up on expenses . You wo n't overspend this way , and your back account should have a little bit of padding because you will assume less money in and more money out . Honestly , I do tracking in both Quicken and Mint.com , so the transaction size is no big deal to me . If I did it all in Excel , I would round to whole notes . You did n't tag your question with a country , so I do n't know if or similar is available to you .
You can only make deposits into an ATM that your bank owns ( or has some special relationship with ) . You can make withdrawals from any ATM . UPDATE : Comments show that there are some credit unions that have special relationships with other banks/credit unions and allow you to make deposits into their machines .
Should I just create a new account code , i.e. Lawyer 's Trust Account ? Yes , you should . I have a generic " escrow " account just for that .
First : what 's your risk tolerance ? How long is your investment going to last ? If it 's a short-term investment ( a few years ) and you expect to break even ( or better ) then your risk tolerance is low . You should not invest much money in stocks , even index funds and " defensive " stocks . If , however , you 're looking for a long-term investment which you will put money into continually over the next 30 years , the amount of stock you purchase at any given time is pretty small , so the money you might lose by timing the market wrong will also be rather small . Also , you probably do a remarkably poor job of knowing when to buy stocks . If you actually knew how to time the market to materially improve your risk-adjusted returns , you 've missed your calling ; you should be making six figures or more on Wall Street . :)
That is a pretty exclusive club and for the most part they are not interested in highly volatile companies like Apple and Google . Sure , IBM is part of the DJIA , but that is about as stalwart as you can get these days . The typical profile for a DJIA stock would be one that pays fairly predictable dividends , has been around since money was invented , and are not going anywhere unless the apocalypse really happens this year . In summary , DJIA is the boring reliable company index .
You will need to file your tax return ( form 1040 ) with the form 2555/2555-EZ attached to it . Usually , retail tax preparation services , especially on-line websites , are not tailored for such a unique need and people working there are likely not train to understand what it is that you 're talking about . If you 're up to doing the research yourself you can use the IRS free fillable forms or just mail in paper return which you can fill manually . Otherwise , check with a local US-licensed tax prepare or find a US-based tax prepare working with expats . @Eric raises a good point - this is a good time to remind you that you also need to file <URL> ( separately of the tax return ) and maybe other reports .
end question
start question
How are proceeds from writing covered calls taxed ?
The tax comes when you close the position . If the option expires worthless it 's as if you bought it back for $ 0 . There 's a short-term capital gain for the difference between your short-sale price and your buyback price on the option . I believe the capital gain is always short-term because short sales are treated as short-term even if you hold them open more than one year . If the option is exercised ( calling away your stock ) then you add the premium to your sale price on the stock and then compute the capital gain . So in this case you can end up treating the premium as a long-term capital gain . See IRS pub 550 <URL> Search for " Writers of puts and calls "
Options : Buy Vanguard Bond Funds that are tax free for wherever you live . Put the money into the highest yield savings account you can find ( for amounts over 5k this is probably going to be 1.25 % ) Put the money into the highest yield CD you can find . ( personally I did the first and it is working well ) .
They generally issue the extra fraction as cash . When they do a reverse split this is the way to get rid of small investors . They take 1000 shares pre-split and turn it into 1 share post split . If you own less than a share you are given cash . If those shares are part of a larger fund ( ie in a 401K ) the fund will take care of this because each member can own fractional shares . The documentation for the merger should discuss the fractional shares and how they handled and when any cash will be received .
You are missing something very significant . The money in a traditional IRA ( specifically , a deductible traditional IRA ; there is not really any reason to keep a nondeductible traditional IRA anymore ) is pre-tax . That means when you pay tax on it when you take it out , you are paying tax on it for the first time . If you take ordinary money to invest it in stocks , and then pay capital gains tax on it when you take it out , that is post-tax money to begin with -- meaning that you have already paid ( income ) tax on it once . Then you have to pay tax again on the time-value growth of that money ( i.e. that growth is earned from money that is already taxed ) . That means you are effectively paying tax twice on part of that money . If that does n't make sense to you , and you think that interest , capital gains , etc. is the first time you 're paying tax on the money because it 's growth , then you have a very simplistic view of money . There 's something called time value of money , which means that a certain amount of money is equivalent to a greater amount of money in the future . If you invest $ 100 now and end up with $ 150 in the future , that $ 150 in the future is effectively the same money as the $ 100 now . Let 's consider a few examples . Let 's say you have $ 1000 of pre-tax income you want to invest and withdraw a certain period of time later in retirement . Let 's say you have an investment that grows 100 % over this period of time . And let 's say that your tax rate now and in the future is 25 % ( and for simplicity , assume that all income is taxed at that rate instead of the tax bracket system ) . And capital gains tax is 15 % . Put it in a Traditional IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 grows to $ 2000 , you pay 25 % taxes , end up with $ 1500 Take it in your paycheck , and then invest it in the stock , and withdraw it at the end : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax to $ 750 , the investment grows to $ 1500 , but then you pay capital gains tax of 15 % x $ 750 = $ 112.50 . You end up with $ 1387.50 Put it in a Roth IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax on it to $ 750 ; it then grows to $ 1500 ; you pay no taxes on that You see a few things : Traditional IRA and Roth IRA are equivalent if the tax rates are the same . This is because , in both cases , you pay tax one time on the money ( the only difference between paying tax now and later is the tax rate ) . It does n't matter that you 're paying tax only on the principal for the Roth and on the principal plus earnings for Traditional , because the principal now is equivalent to the principal plus earnings in the future . And you also see that investing money outside fares worse than both of them . That is because you are paying tax on the money once plus some more . When you compare it against the Roth IRA , the disadvantage is obvious -- in both cases you pay income tax on the principal , but for Roth IRA you pay nothing on the earnings , whereas for the outside stock , you pay some tax on the earnings . What may be less obvious is it is equally disadvantageous compared to a Traditional IRA ; Traditional and Roth IRA are equivalent in this comparison . 401 ( k ) s and IRAs have a fundamental tax benefit compared to normal money investment , because they allow money to be taxed only one time . No matter how low the capital gains tax rate it , it is still worse because it is a tax on time-value growth from money that is already taxed .
Did you just buy them in 2010 ? If you owned them prior , you might have to amend your returns . Rental property income and expenses is declared on a <URL> and once you add all your expenses along with depreciation , you may show a loss . You can take that loss against ordinary income if your gross income is under a certain level , $ 100k MAGI begns the phaseout range . Otherwise , it carries over . A gain flows to your 1040 as ordinary income . I just saw your edit . You bought these 8 and 3 years prior to posting this question . How were you handling your taxes all this time ?
It sounds like you want to lock-up your money in something relatively safe , and relatively hard to touch . You may want to consider a <URL> ( <URL> I found in a quick search ) - from what I see it 's the closest thing to a US <URL> . You wo n't get much back , but if you pick a 5-year term , you ca n't spend it * easily . Other options might be to buy an <URL> , or get into <URL> s - but that will depend on your risk comfort . Also - to add from the comment <URL> left - be sure to pay off any high-interest debts : especially if they 're on a credit card , it will help you later on . * easily . . you can withdraw , but there 're generally penalties
See <URL> regarding the relationship between a HDHP ( High Deductible Health Plan ) and an HSA ( Health Savings Account ) . In brief , to qualify for an HSA you must have a <URL> : HDHPs are plans with a minimum deductible of $ 1,200 for self-only coverage and $ 2,400 for self-and-family coverage . The maximum amount out-of-pocket limit for HDHPs is $ 5,950 for self-only coverage and $ 11,900 for self-and-family coverage . As mentioned by Stainsor , your insurance can either come from your employer , or it can be an individually purchased plan . The HSA can be bundled as part of a package with the insurance , or it can be an account you set up separately . Contributions you make to the HSA are tax deductible . You 'll report the amount you contributed when you file your taxes the following year . E.g. in April 2012 you 'll report ( and deduct ) the amount of HSA contributions you made for tax year 2011 . I 'm not sure what kind of trouble you 'll get into if you have an HSA without having a qualified HDHP . To answer the main part of your question : Different HSAs may have slightly different features , but I 've typically seen them provide the following ways to withdraw funds : Via a debit card issued with the account . You can use the debit card to pay for things like drugs at the pharmacy , or at a doctors ' office that requires payment at the time of service . Via online bill pay . You can use this to pay bills from hospitals , doctors ' offices , or other healthcare service providers that send you bills . Via paper checks . For doctors ' offices that require payment at time of service but do n't accept plastic . ( Or if you prefer not to use online bill pay . ) Via withdrawal at a teller window or ATM . You can use this to " reimburse yourself " for healthcare expenses that you paid out of pocket . The issue of documenting legitimate expenses and/or qualifying for the account with an HDHP is between you and the IRS . The bank at which your HSA is kept does n't really care whether you comply with the tax laws .
Each of those is a network . Merchants displaying their logos - participate in their network and will accept cards that bear the same logo . Most merchants participate in more than one network . Discover is mostly used in the US , while Visa , Mastercard and American Express are more widely spread in the world ( Amex less , Visa and MC are much more widely spread ) . In addition to being widely spread in the US , Discover is accepted everywhere where UnionPay is accepted ( mostly in China ) and Diners Club ( mostly in EMEA ) . Advantages/disadvantages ? You 'll have to compare specific cards , but if you 're a traveler in the world - then Discover will probably not be as appealing as Visa or Mastercard .
There 's likely to be a period where you will own both houses . Although everyone wants " simultaneous closing " , it can be very rarely achieved . To achieve that , what is usually done is that the purchase of house B is contingent on the sale of the house A within a certain period of time . Then , you close both sales together with the proceeds from A going towards the purchase of B . It also means that you must stay in an hotel with all your stuff in a storage , because when you close the deal , A must already be empty ( because the buyer takes possession at closing ) and B will be empty ( because you also take possession at closing ) , leaving you in a limbo but without the need of paying two mortgages at once . As a side-note - I never understood the need in staging . IMHO its just another way for realtors to pocket money . When I was looking for an apartment not far from where you live , I saw both staged and non-staged , and in some cases even places where people were still living . I did n't see any difference re the asking price or the price I would offer . With a good inspection you can see straight through the " staging " so it does n't really fool anyone .
Scenario 1 Only your company can tell you if you can still exercise the options , and under what terms . Part of the agreement to sell a company includes dealing with the employee 's benefits and options . Since the company that gave you the options no longer exists - there 's no default answer , you should check your specific situation . In many cases , in this scenario , options are replaced by the options to the new company , with a new vesting schedule . Scenario 2 In this scenario , you exercised the options before the startup was bought , which effectively made you one of the shareholders selling . Your income will be based on the valuation of the company , and if it is not a publicly traded company - its a fairly complicated matter . You should get a professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) to work on this with your company . When you sell your shares in the buyout by the new owner , you will realize gain which is of course taxed . That would be taxed as capital gain , based on the difference between the valuation you 've been taxed upon , and the sales price . A thing to remember : if you 're exercising the options and keeping the stocks - you may get hit by the AMT . I suggest talking to a professional adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) to plan accordingly .
It has more to do with who is paying the credit processors for the service , than what the goods really are . Essentially speaking , when you purchase goods worth $ 100 using your card , the store has to pay about $ 2 for the transaction to the company that operates that stores ' credit card terminal . If you withdraw cash from an ATM , you might be charged a fee for such a transaction . However , the ATM operator does n't pay the credit processor such a transaction fee - thus , it is classified as a cash transaction . It 's an attempt to discourage certain behavior . It is also used ( at least deciding to accrue interest immediately ) to prevent users from paying back one CC using a cash advance from another - this way one could run on grace periods indefinitely . Additionally , performing cash advances off a CC is a rather good indicator of a bad financial health of the user , which increase the risk of default , and in some institutions is a factor contributing to their internal creditworthiness assessment .
Yes , as long as you write a call against your stock with a strike price greater than or equal to the previous day 's closing price , with 30 or more days till experation there will be no effect on the holding period of your stock . Like you mentioned , unqualified covered calls suspend the holding period of your stock . For example you sell a deep in the money call ( sometimes called the last write ) on a stock you have held for 5 years , the covered call is classified as unqualified , the holding period is suspened and the gain or loss on the stock will be treated as short-term . Selling out of the money calls or trading in an IRA account keeps things simple . The details below have been summarized from an article I found at investorsguide.com . The article also talks about the implications of rolling a call forward and tax situations where it may be advantageous to write unqualified covered calls ( basically when you have a large deferred long term loss ) . <URL> Two criterion must be met for a covered call to be considered a qualified covered call ( QCC ) . 1 ) days to expiration must be greater than 30 2 ) strike price must be greater than or equal to the first available in the money strike price below the previous day 's closing price for a particular stock . Additionally , if the previous day 's closing price is $ 25 or less , the strike price of the call being sold must be greater than 85 % of yesterday 's closing price . 2a ) If the previous day 's closing price is greater than 60.01 and less than or equal to $ 150 , days to experation is between 60-90 , as long as the strike price of the call is greater than 85 % of the previous days close and less than 10 points in the money , you can write a covered call two strikes in the money 2c ) If the previous day 's closing price is greater than $ 150 and days till expiration is greater than 90 , you can write a covered call two strikes in the money .
So which one is it ? Is double taxation a real thing where you 're taxed up to the sum of both countries ' tax rates for anything above that exemption number , or do the treaties in place make it so that in practice you 're never getting double taxed ? Many countries recognize foreign taxes paid on foreign sourced income , and the US is not an exception . You have the foreign tax credit ( FTC ) available in this situation , which will drastically reduce the US tax exposure . This is regardless of any treaty as the US tax treaties usually do n't apply to US citizens . The double taxation elimination clause usually does apply , but the FTC covers it . Where can you be truly double-taxed ? At the State level . Some States ( like California ) do n't conform to the Federal law and do n't recognize the Federal treaties . Most treaties do n't explicitly include State taxes , so if you 're considered a resident of that State you 'll end up paying taxes to it on your full income regardless of any foreign taxes paid . That is why it is a good idea to change residency to a State with no income taxes , or at least conforming to the Federal law , before moving outside of the US . Foreign earned income exemption is another tool to avoid double taxation , but it only works for earned income . It does n't apply to passive income like capital gains or rents , so if you have foreign source for that income you 'll only be able to use FTC . In some cases the US taxes what other countries do n't . Pensions are a good example : while the US has explicit treaties with some countries to cover that topic ( e.g. : Canada ) , with most there are none , so employer contributions to ( usually locally tax-free ) pension/retirement savings are considered current wages by the US . This leads to very problematic double basis accounting - you have no tax basis under local law , but you have some under the US law , and you need to account for that for the time when you start getting distributions . Similarly with many other tax-free/tax-deferred compensation schemes in many countries . Last but not least - the FTC calculations . This is not a 1 for 1 credit . You do n't get credit of $ 1 for each $ 1 of the foreign tax paid . There 's a certain calculation , for different income types . In other countries the same income may be categorized differently . So you may end up with lower capital gains tax in the US on something that 's considered higher-rate taxed regular income in the other country and vice-versa , and because of that the FTC will not cover fully the taxes on one type , while you 'll end up with unused credit on another . Investments ( like PFIC ) are a another good example where you can easily be double taxed without any help from FTC . What 's considered a trivial investment in a mutual fund in any other country ( even in the US , if you invest in a US fund ) , becomes an extremely complicated and dangerous tax exposure if you 're a US tax resident . Taxes on investment mutual funds outside of the US are at least at regular income rates for Americans , and can be much higher - while everywhere else it would be considered regular capital gains , or not even taxed at all . The fact that the US taxes its citizens regardless of their residency is a pain in the a $ $ for many who work or live out of the country . Even if you do n't end up paying extra tax because of all the credits and exemptions , just dealing with this and paying tax advisers to prepare 100s of pages of tax returns is a tax on its own : it costs hundreds , if not thousands , of dollars just to be in compliance even if there 's no tax owed .
CDIC covers deposits at financial institutions ... typically banks and trust companies ... insurance companies and co-ops have their own version of it . The limit is $ 100,000 per account . This can be in things like bank accounts , GICs , term deposits , etc. . Terms of up to 5 years are covered . You can have more than one account at an institution and have them both insured . For example , an open or non-registerd account is insured separately from a RRSP account , and if you have a joint account , that is also separate . In addition to the above , you would be separately insured if you had deposits at different institutions , for example , 2 different banks .
Congratulations . The first savings goal should be an emergency fund . Think of this not as an investment , but as insurance against life 's woes . They happen and having this kind of money earmarked allows one to invest without needing to withdraw at an inopportune time . This should go into a " high interest " savings account or money market account . Figure three to six months of expenses . The next goal should be retirement savings . In the US this is typically done through 401K or if your company does not offer one , either a ROTH IRA or Traditional IRA . The goal should be about 15 % of your income . You should favor a 401k match over just about anything else , and then a ROTH over that . The key to transforming from a broke college student into a person with a real job , and disposable income , is a budget . Otherwise you might just end up as a broke person with a real job ( not fun ) . Part of your budget should include savings , spending , and giving . All three areas are the key to building wealth . Once you have all of those taking care of the real fun begins . That is you have an emergency fund , you are putting 15 % to retirement , you are spending some on yourself , and giving to a charity of your choice . Then you can dream some with any money left over ( after expenses of course ) . Do you want to retire early ? Invest more for retirement . Looking to buy a home or own a bunch of rental property ? Start educating yourself and invest for that . Are you passionate about a certain charity ? Give more and save some money to take time off in order to volunteer for that charity . All that and more can be yours . Budgeting is a key concept , and the younger you start the easier it gets . While the financiers will disagree with me , you can not really invest if you are borrowing money . Keep debt to zero or just on a primary residence . I can tell you from personal experience that I did not started building wealth until I made a firm commitment to being out of debt . Buy cars for cash and never pay credit card interest . Pay off student loans as soon as possible . For some reason the idea of giving to charity invokes rancor . A cursory study of millionaires will indicate some surprising facts : most of them are self made , most of them behave differently than pop culture , and among other things most of them are generous givers . Building wealth is about behavior . Giving to charity is part of that behavior . Its my own theory that giving does almost no good for the recipient , but a great amount of good for the giver . This may seem difficult to believe , but I ask that you try it .
That 's really not something that can be answered based on the information provided . There are a lot of factors involved : type of income , your wife 's tax bracket , the split between Federal and State ( if you 're in a high bracket in a high income-tax rate State - it may even be more than 50 % ) , etc etc. . The fact that your wife did n't withdraw the money is irrelevant . S-Corp is a pass-through entity , i.e. : owners are taxed on the profits based on their personal marginal tax rates , and it does n't matter what they did with the money . In this case , your wife re-invested it into the corp ( used it to pay off corp debts ) , which adds back to her basis . You really should talk to a tax adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your State ) to learn how S-Corps work and how to use them properly . Your wife , actually , as she 's the owner .
It is just a different category of stock issued by a company that gives its owners different treatment when it comes to dividend payment and a few other financial transactions . Preferred stock holders get treated with some preference with regard to the company 's profits and assets . For example , dividends are typically guaranteed to preferred stock holders whereas the leadership in the company can elect at any time not to pay dividends to common stockholders . In the event the company is liquidated , the preferred stockholders also get to be in line ahead of common stockholders when the assets are distributed .
I 'm not an expert on reverse mortgages but from my understanding the closing costs are much higher than traditional mortgages and the LTV is generally pretty low . So the bank makes money by not loaning out all that much compared to the value of the property and by charging high fees on the front end .
The MER is deducted invisibly to you and is reflected in the share price . The number of shares you own does not change ; their price does . In your example , the share price will decline from $ 10 per share to $ 9.90 per share over the year . The reduction is included in the price shown as the daily Net Asset Value ( NAV ) of the shares as shown on the fund 's website . You ca n't tell when the reduction is occurring ( on a daily basis at 1 % / 365 per day , or monthly basis of 1 % / 12 per month etc ) . If you are considering investing in a no-load index fund that is charging a MER of 1 % in the US , do n't .
The tax comes when you close the position . If the option expires worthless it 's as if you bought it back for $ 0 . There 's a short-term capital gain for the difference between your short-sale price and your buyback price on the option . I believe the capital gain is always short-term because short sales are treated as short-term even if you hold them open more than one year . If the option is exercised ( calling away your stock ) then you add the premium to your sale price on the stock and then compute the capital gain . So in this case you can end up treating the premium as a long-term capital gain . See IRS pub 550 <URL> Search for " Writers of puts and calls "
end question
start question
Do I have to list a SSN to take a child exemption ?
Straight from the <URL> ; Applying for a Social Security card and number for your newborn is voluntary . But , your child needs a Social Security number if you plan to -
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
The question reads " could " , not would for a reason - you do n't have to include him as a dependent if you do n't want to , but if you are allowed - he can not claim the exemption . So yes , he has to amend and fix it whether you actually claim him or not . If you do claim him , it will be very easy for the IRS to notice the discrepancy and come to him asking questions .
The estate tax laws change almost year to year , so an explanation of bypass trust is probably in order . For this example , assume a $ 1 million estate exemption . If a couple has $ 2 million in assets , you 'd think they can pass it along with no estate tax . But when the husband dies , and the wife has $ 2M in assets , on her death , the excess million is subject to estate tax . Enter the bypass trust . On hubby 's death , the maximum exemption amount ( here , the million ) goes into the trust . The wife is permitted limited withdrawal , usually just interest , but the principal is out of her estate . Now , to answer the question , no , the annual limit does n't apply , but as the trust is not irrevocable , the lifetime limit does n't come in to play . Often , these trusts are worded so the limit in effect the year you die is the amount that funds the trust . Else , one might need an attorney visit every year .
The <URL> does not explicitly specify a minimum spending requirement . It does though , have the following catch-all clause for closing the account : We may : • cancel your Account , • suspend the ability to make charges , • cancel or suspend any feature on your Account , and • notify merchants that your Account has been cancelled or suspended . If we do any of these , you must still pay us for all charges under the terms of this Agreement . We may do any of these things at our discretion , even if you pay on time and your Account is not in default . If your Account is cancelled , you must destroy your cards . We may agree to reinstate your Account after a cancellation . If we do this , we may : • reinstate any additional cards issued on your Account , • charge you any applicable annual fees , and • charge you a fee for reinstating the Account . One would suspect that American Express would happily collect the fee from anyone who holds the card , but is not using it ( in any way ) . Someone , though , that is n't spending the expected amount of money , but is availing themselves of the 24 hour concierge service , etc. , would probably find their privileges revoked and/or their card canceled .
In accrual accounting , you 're not meant to book expenses before they happen . The " accrual " part means you recognize ( accrue ) expenses as they are incurred , which is not necessarily when they are paid ( which often happens later ) . The idea with accrual accounting is to recognize that unpaid liabilities are still a claim against current assets , even if the cash to pay has n't left the bank account yet . Under accrual accounting , consider that if you had prepaid future expenses , the prepaid expense amount would actually be recognized in the books as an asset , up until the point where the company actually incurs the expense . Only when the expense gets incurred is it booked as an expense , using up a portion of the prepaid amount . What ought to be clear from accrual 's treatment of prepaid expenses is that you generally do n't get to claim as a liability any expense that has not yet been incurred . That being said -- while financial accounting ( and the tax man ) says you should maintain your books as an accurate historical record , you are still free for your own purposes to make separate " forward looking " projections of your company 's income or other metrics . Forward-looking projections for informing decision making is generally what management accounting is concerned with . Just do n't book these fictitious liabilities in your books of record -- work in a separate spreadsheet or on a copy of your books . Your actual books should reflect what has actually happened , not what might .
No . It 's either/or . For those who are able to take the credit , the math usually favors that option .
There is no difference in taxation in India if you transfer every month or bulk . If you use specialized remittance services from leading Indian Banks , there would be little difference in fees . Assuming you are keeping the funds in NRE account in India and hold it in GBP , you get a slight better rate of interest that what you would get in UK . The interest would not be taxable in India , however it would be in UK . If you convert the funds at hold it in NRE , Rupee account , you would get still better rate of interest . However you are taking the Fx risk when you try and convert this back to GBP incase you decide to stay on . There are no right or wrong answers Edit : There is no limit on the amount of funds earned as NRE that can be got into India tax free . There is a time limit of 7 Years to get the funds back to India tax free . From a tax point of view if you transfer into NRE account its easy . If you transfer into Normal Savings account you would need some paperwork .
Uncrossed postal orders can be turned directly into cash and thus definitely take no time to clear . Crossed postal orders have to be paid into a bank account , and so it 's possible the bank would take some time to clear them . However they ca n't be rejected because of insufficient funds , as the sender already paid for it . I do n't have any personal experience of them and in particular I 'm not quite sure what happens if you pay in a postal order that either already has been or is subsequently reported lost or stolen . The <URL> is my main source of information .
It 's not so much about time but about intent . If your intent is to move there permanently , it would be when you arrive in the state for the purposes of living there ( i.e. not from a while before that when you went to check a place out or for an interview ) . I believe that most ( if not all ) states expect you to get a Driver 's License from that state within 30-days of moving there . Something like a Driver 's License or State ID would be proof of your residency . These things vary greatly from state to state , so you 'd have to research particular states . Or find someone who 's done that already . A bit of searching , specifically for Texas , brought me to this <URL> : If you / he wish to establish residency here -- here being Texas -- get a Texas Driver 's License and Voter Registration here . Government issued ID with a Texas address is pretty much bulletproof defense against being found to be a resident of elsewhere . Your battle , if there is one , will not be with Texas , but with your present home of record state and/or local government if there are income taxes associated with having been a resident there during the tax year . Which brings up the other question : You would need to make sure that California does not have some provision that would cause you issues . ( This is n't so much a case of income from a company in the state as it about capital gains , but it is still prudent to check . )
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
In India , in the money options get exercised automatically at the end of the day and is settled at T +1 ( Where T is expiry day ) . This means , the clearing house takes the closing price of the underlying security while calculating the amount that needs to be credited/debited to its members . Source : - <URL>
Yes , you can have a buy-to-let mortgage on a rental property at the same time as a residential mortgage on your own property . A lot of landlords do this . I would n't go expecting your rental property to contribute much to paying off your residential mortgage . Most of it will go on the various costs and fees of renting out a property ( not least the buy-to-let mortgage ! ) . The main financial benefit in the UK of owning a rental property with a substantial mortgage on it is that the value of the property goes up ( in a rising market , which it normally seems to be ) .
The best practices for this sort of thing : Do n't keep too much money and valuable jewerly around . You should have no more than a couple of thousand dollars lying about . Keep the exterior of your house clean and well-lit . Gates and doors , even if not locked , should be in good repair and consistently closed . Secure stuff like bikes , lawnmowers , etc in a place not visible from the outside of the street , preferably in a shed . Have decent locks and keep accessible windows closed and locked when you 're not home . Get a dog . In terms of electronics and such , you 're always at risk for some crackhead busting in your door and grabbing your iPod or whatever . Thieves do n't really care about clothes ... they want items quickly converted to cash : small electronics with resale value , cash , jewelry . Keeping things locked and having a dog are probably the best deterrents for that scenario . More professional/organized burglars who rob houses during the day stake out a neighborhood and look for places where their presence wo n't be noticed . If things are clean and consistent , your neighbors , police patrol , mailman , etc are more likely to notice something awry and call the police . That 's a risk factor for the " pro " thief , who will more likely look for a softer target . If you live in an area where there has been a burglary spree or you are really worried about this , get a basic , centrally monitored alarm system . If you 're not living a flashy lifestyle and are deliberately thinking about ways to look like you do n't have anything , it is money well spent . If you are living a flashy lifestyle , unwanted attention comes with the territory . In any case , feeling safe at home is something you need to be able to do .
Generally , the paperwork realtors use is pre-written and pre-approved by the relevant State and real-estate organizations . The offers , contracts , etc etc a pretty straightforward and standard . You can ask a realtor for a small fee to arrange the documents for you ( smaller than the usual 5 % sellers ' fee they charge , I would say 0.5 % or a couple of hundreds of dollars flat fee would be enough for the work ) . You can try and get these forms yourself , sometimes you can buy them in the neighborhood Staples , or from various law firms and legal plans that sell standard docs . You can get a lawyer to go over it with you for almost nothing : I used the LegalZoom plan for documentation review , and it cost me $ 30 ( business plan , individual is cheaper ) to go over several purchase contracts ( $ 30 is a monthly subscription , but you do n't have to pay it for more than one month ) . But these are standard , so you do it once and you know how to read them all . If you have a legal plan from work , this may cover document review and preparation . Preparing a contract that is not a standard template can otherwise cost you hundreds of dollars . Title company will not do any paperwork for you except for the deed itself . They can arrange the deed and the recording , escrow and title insurance , but they will not write a contract for the parties to use . You have to come with the contract already in place , and with escrow instructions already agreed upon . Some jurisdictions require using a lawyer in a real-estate transaction . If you 're in a jurisdiction ( usually on a county level ) that requires the transaction to go through a lawyer - then the costs will be higher .
In short - if you ca n't get the job without incorporating , then incorporate ! Some clients will require you to be incorporated ( which is why I did it 10 years ago ) . Essentially , for them , it 's a way of distancing themselves from you to ensure they are not responsible for any monies if you do n't pay your taxes . For you , there is also this idea of distancing company assets from your personal assets . If they are not requiring you to incorporate , you can simply act as a sole proprietorship . A good place to start reading up could be the sites below ( for Canada/Ontario ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> When I registered , I simply bought a book at Grand &amp; Toy , with all the required forms for Ontario . These forms would also be available at a local Government service centre . You walk in , give the government money , and shortly thereafter you are incorporated . There are a number of others things that are required ( having a minutes book , writing resolutions , creating shares , setting up a bank account , etc ) - all discussed in the guide For Ontario you can start here : <URL> At a high level , there are some costs for being incorporated , and some tax savings . At a minimum , costs would include : Incorporation costs - from memory this is a few hundred dollars Name Search around $ 50 ( you are not required to pick a name , and can simply use the numbered company from the incorporation , so this is optional ) Bank Account in the business 's name ( RBC is good for new companies as they have the lowest charges currently - see <URL> forums for a more indepth discussion . You may need the help of an account to help set things up , but it 's quite easy to maintain all the records , etc that are required . Some other minor things I enjoy are writing myself expense cheques so that I get money back immediately ( and effectively only pay 60 % of the cost after writing it off in the company ) . I can decide how much to pay myself and push income from year to year .
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
In the US you are not required to have a corporation to use business expenses to offset your income . The technical term you need is " deducting business expenses " , and in matters of taxes it 's usually best to go straight to the horse 's mouth : <URL> Deducting Business Expenses Business expenses are the cost of carrying on a trade or business . These expenses are usually deductible if the business operates to make a profit . What Can I Deduct ? Cost of Goods Sold , Capital Expenses , Personal versus Business Expenses , Business Use of Your Home , Business Use of Your Car , Other Types of Business Expenses None of this requires any special incorporation or tax arrangements , and are a normal part of operating a business . However , there is a bit of a problem with your scenario . You said you " invested " into a business , but you mentioned buying specific things for the business which is not generally how one accounts for investment . If you are not an owner/operator of the business , then the scenario is not so straight-forward , as you ca n't simply claim someone else 's business expenses as your own because you invested in it . Investments are taxed differently than expenses , and based upon your word choices I 'm concerned that you could be getting yourself into a bit of a pickle . I would strongly advise you to speak with a professional , such as a Certified Public Accountant ( CPA ) , to go over your current arrangement and advise you on how you should be structuring your ongoing investment into this shared business . If you are investing you should be receiving equity to reflect your ownership ( or stock in the company , etc ) , and investments of this sort generally can not be deducted as an expense on your taxes - it 's just an investment , the same as buying stock or CDs . If you are just buying things for someone else 's benefit , it 's possible that this could be looked upon as a personal gift , and you may be in a precarious legal position as well ( where the money is , indeed , just a gift ) . And gifts of this sort are n't deductible , either . Depending on how this is all structured , it 's possible that you should both consider a different form of legal organization , such as a formal corporation or at least an official business partnership . A CPA and an appropriate business attorney should be able to advise you for a nominal ( few hundred dollars , at most ) fee . If a new legal structure is advisable , you can potentially do the work yourself for a few hundred dollars , or pay to have it done ( especially if the situation is more complex ) for a few hundred to a few thousand . That 's a lot less than you 'd be on the hook for if this business is being accounted for improperly , or if either of your tax returns are being reported improperly !
When accounts are completely closed , they may still appear on the credit report 10 years later . Note - I 'm not supposing this , I pulled a report a couple months ago , and it shows a mortgage paid in full in July , 2003 . I 'll see if it actually falls off when I pull the report later this year . There 's no law that good details must be removed after that time . It 's not the lack of use , but the closing of accounts that would impact credit history . In my opinion , avoiding ongoing debt is fine , but it 's ' fringe ' to do it so extremely that you find you have no credit history . Trying to rent a car or hotel room on a debit card is n't so simple . When I rent a $ 200 hotel room , a bit more than that is frozen to account for mini-bar , room service , etc. . You might have $ 2000 in your account , and between room , car , and gas purchases , see it all frozen when you only intend to spend $ 1500 . Last , try to get a mortgage with no credit history at all . It wo n't be easy . All the above issues can be avoided by finding one or two good credit cards with no fee and using them to fill the gas tank every few months . Doing this on purpose seems an unnecessary way of complicating one 's life . ( Admittedly , there are people who go to the other extreme , trying to get the most in rewards , and treating it like a game . No need for that , either . I enjoy the game but am not an advocate of it for those who wish to keep things as simple as possible . )
No , you can not generally deduct these expenses . These are investigatory expenses that you made before acquiring the property . Had you acquired it - they would be added to the basis as part of the closing costs , but since you actually have not purchased an asset - you have nothing to add to the basis of . This has been the settled law after a Tax Court decision since 1931 .
end question
start question
How does Yahoo finance adjust stock data for splits and dividends ?
For stock splits , let 's say stock XYZ closed at 100 on February 5 . Then on February 6 , it undergoes a 2-for-1 split and closes the day at 51 . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 51 on Feb 6 , but all of the closing prices for the previous days will be divided by 2 . So for Feb 5 , it will say the closing price was 50 instead of 100 . For dividends , let 's say stock ABC closed at 200 on December 18 . Then on December 19 , the stock increases in price by $ 2 but it pays out a $ 1 dividend . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 200 on Dec 18 and 201 on Dec 19 . Yahoo adjusts the closing price for Dec 19 to factor in the dividend .
First - Google 's snapshot - Then - Yahoo - I took these snapshots because they will not exist on line after the market opens , and without this context , your question wo n't make sense . With the two snapshots you can see , Yahoo shows the after hours trades and not just the official market close for the day . The amount it 's down is exactly tracked from the close shown on Google . Now you know .
It looks like JP Morgan can convert your holding to <URL> . In any event , you should not completely lose the equity . Volvo still exists as a public company , it 's just not tradable on US exchanges . Q1 : Yes , you 'd need a JPM account . Your broker should have offered a similar service . If they did n't they are not a broker . Q2 : You own 30 shares in Volvo . You need to get your broker to either sell them ( off-exchange now ) or tell you how to gain access to them .
I 'm a retired stockbroker/Registered Investment Advisor . My initial discussions with prospects never had a fee . Restricted stock is unsaleable without specific permission from the issuing company , and typically involves time specifc periods when stock can be sold and/or amounts of stock that can be sold . Not for DIY . Financial planners may be able to assist you , if they are conversant in restricted stock , though that 's not a common situation for most clients . Any stockbroker at a major firm ( Merrill Lynch , UBS , Royal Bank of Canada , Morgan Stanley , JP Morgan , etc. ) will be knowledgeable and advise you ( w/o charge ) how to trade the stock . Always talk to more than one firm , and do n't be in a hurry . If you feel comfortable with the discussion , you can pursue a deeper relationship . In my professional experience , clients valued service , accessibility , knowledge . Price was way down on the list ; many of my clients were not wealthy people - they just needed help navigating a very confusing ( and necessary ) part of their lives . Good luck .
Shares often come associated with a set of rights , such as ability to vote in the outcome of the company . Some shares do not have this right , however . With your ability to vote in the outcome of the company , you could help dictate that the company paid dividends at a point in time . Or many other varieties of outcomes . Also , if there were any liquidity events due to demand of the shares , this is typically at a much higher price than the shares are now when the company is private/closely held .
The rule defines a wash sale as one that occurs when an individual sells or trades a security at a loss , and within 30 days before or after this sale , buys a " substantially identical " stock or security , or acquires a contract or option to do so . <URL> Does n't matter whether purchase or sale happened first , wash sale rules apply In your example you would have a net gain from the two sales so it would n't matter . Let 's use a different example . Let 's say I buy stock XYZ in January . 100 shares at $ 30/share . Now December comes around and it 's down to 20/share so on December 20th I sell so I can write off the loss on my taxes . Now on the 21st I buy those shares back for 20/share . Wash sale rules prevent me from writing off the loss on my taxes , instead I must adjust the basis of my new shares . The same would be true if instead I had bought 100 now shares on the 20th and sold 100 a day later in the 21st . Wash sale rules would still prevent me from counting that loss .
The correct p/e for bp.l is 5.80 . Bp.l is on the London stock exchange and prices are in local currency . The share price of 493 is reported in pence ( not dollars ) . The EPS is reported in pounds . Using .85 pounds = 85 pence , you calculate the EPS as follows : 493.40 / 85 = 5.80 PE Yahoo totally screwed up . They converted the .85 pounds into US dollars ( $ 1.34 ) but did n't convert the 493 pence . By using the 493 as dollars , they got 493.9 / 1.34 = 368 pe ! Notice that Yahoo reports the American Depository Shares ( symbol ' BP ' ) with an EPS of $ 8.06 . That correctly reflects that there are 6 shares of BP.l per ADS ( 1.34 * 6 = 8.04 ) . But why is the share price listed at $ 46.69 ? Well ... 493 GBp ( pence ) = 4.93 pounds 4.93 pounds = 7.73 USD 7.73 USD * 6 shares per ADS = 46.38 USD
All of the above . There are <URL> . Generally the " people with clipboards " is the most reliable , but is also the most expensive , so some might be getting the data directly from the retailers with some <URL> for verification . The " margin of error " percentage is directly related to the method chosen .
who computes the S&amp;P 500 ? <URL> . Why are they sharing this information and Because that 's what they do . This is a financial research company . how do they recuperate the costs inherent in computing the S&amp;P 500 ? By charging clients for other information . The computing of the index itself is not all that complicated , its coming up with the index that 's a problem . Once they 've come up with the formula , and it became widely accepted , the computation itself is not an issue . But the fact that its so popular leads to the S&amp;P brand recognition , and people come and pay good money for their other services ( ratings and financial analysis of securities ) . They do more work for free . For example , the ratings of various government debts are being done by S&amp;P for free ( governments do n't pay for that ) , while private bonds are rated for a fee ( corporations pay to have their bonds rated ) . Also , as noted by JBKing , there are probably some licensing fees for using the index name in the fund name ( and other users are probably paying the licensing fee , like the news agencies and the exchanges ) . <URL> , and as such can not be used without the owner 's permission . Why is then " active management " not required for indexed funds Because no research and stock picking is required . In fact , these funds do n't really require a manager , they can be managed by a simple script . and how does it lower taxes ? ( perhaps this could be a different question if this has become too broad ) Actively managed funds perform a lot more buy/sell operations , each leading to tax consequences to the fund ( which rolls them over to the investors ) . Index funds only buy and sell to re-balance back to the index ( or when the makeup of the index changes , usually once a year or half a year ) , leading to much lesser realized capital gains to the fund , thus much lesser tax consequences .
<URL> will work as DumbCoder states , but did n't contain LEHMQ ( Lehman Brother 's holding company ) . You can use Yahoo for companies that have declared bankruptcy , such as Lehman Brothers : <URL> but you have to know the symbol of the holding company .
If I buy VUSA from one exchange , can I sell it in a different exchange , assuming my brokerage account lets me trade in both exchanges ? Or is it somehow tied to the exchange I bought it from ? This does n't happen for all securities and between all stock exchanges . So that is dependent on broker and country . I checked for VUSA with Selftrade . They categorically refused allowing me to trade in VUSA in different exchanges . I can only buy and sell in same currency only , albeit sell ( buy ) in the same exchange where I buy ( sell ) from . Should be the same behaviour for all brokers for us mere mortals , if you are a bank or a millionaire than that might be a different question . The VUSA you quote is quoted in GBP in LSE and in EUR in AEX , and the ETF has been created by an Irish entity and has an Irish ISIN . As Chris mentioned below , happens between US and Canadian exchanges , but not sure it happens across all exchanges . You can not deal in inter-listed stocks in LSE and NYSE . Since it 's the same asset , its value should not vary across exchanges once you compensate for exchange rates , right ? Yes , else it opens up itself for arbitrage ( profit without any risk ) which everybody wants . So even if any such instance occurs , either people will exploit it to make the arbitrage profit zero ( security reflects the equilibrium price ) or the profit from such transaction is so less , compared with the effort involved , that people will tend to ignore it . Anyways arbitrage profit is very difficult to garner nowadays , considering the super computers at work in the market who exploit these discrepancies , the moment they see them and bring the security right to the zero arbitrage profit point . If there 's no currency risk because of # 2 , what other factors should I consider when choosing an exchange to trade in ? Liquidity ? Something else ? Time difference , by the time you wake up to trade in Japan , the Japanese markets would have closed . Tax implications across multiple continents . Law of the land , providing protection to investors . Finding a broker dealing in markets you want to explore or dealing with multiple brokers . Regulatory headaches .
It is not necessary that the mutual fund pays out the dividend . The money would be used to buy more shares of the same stock or of some other stock depending on overall policy goal of the fund and current allocation of funds . This would increase the NAV of the mutual fund and hence its indirectly comes to you once you sell the mutual fund . The dividend would not be taxable as its not directly paid out .
Vesting As you may know a stock option is the right to acquire a given amount of stock at a given price . Actually acquiring the stock is referred to as exercising the option . Your company is offering you options over 200,000 shares but not all of those options can be exercised immediately . Initially you will only be able to acquire 25,000 shares ; the other 175,000 have conditions attached , the condition in this case presumably being that you are still employed by the company at the specified time in the future . When the conditions attached to a stock option are satisfied that option is said to have vested - this simply means that the holder of the option can now exercise that option at any time they choose and thereby acquire the relevant shares . Dividends Arguably the primary purpose of most private companies is to make money for their owners ( i.e. the shareholders ) by selling goods and/or services at a profit . How does that money actually get to the shareholders ? There are a few possible ways of which paying a dividend is one . Periodically ( potentially annually but possibly more or less frequently or irregularly ) the management of a company may look at how it is doing and decide that it can afford to pay so many cents per share as a dividend . Every shareholder would then receive that number of cents multiplied by the number of shares held . So for example in 4 years or so , after all your stock options have vested and assuming you have exercised them you will own 200,000 shares in your company . If the board declares a dividend of 10 cents per share you would receive $ 20,000 . Depending on where you are and your exact circumstances you may or may not have to pay tax on this . Those are the basic concepts - as you might expect there are all kinds of variations and complications that can occur , but that 's hopefully enough to get you started .
No . Busts are very infrequent , and if an equity were illiquid enough to be affected , the bust cost would be enormous . For a liquid equity , the amount of busted volume is insignificant except during a flash crash or flash spike . Then it would be reasonable to redownload .
First and foremost you need to be aware of what you are comparing . In this case , HSBC as traded on the NYSE exchange is not common shares , but an <URL> ( American Depository Receipt ) with a 5:1 ratio from the actual shares . So for most intents and purposes owning one ADR is like owning five common shares . But for special events like dividends , there may be other considerations , such as the depository bank ( the institution that created the ADR ) may take a percentage . Further , given that some people , accounts or institutions may be required to invest in a given country or not , there may be some permanent price dislocation between the shares and the ADR , which can further lead to discrepancies which are then highlighted by the seeming difference in dividends .
Under US tax laws , the dividends that a mutual fund receives from the stocks that it holds are taxable income to the mutual fund unless the dividends are distributed to to the shareholders of the mutual fund . This also applies to the net capital gains if the fund sells some of the shares it holds , but if the fund 's activities result in a net capital loss to the fund , the loss is not distributed but carried forward by the fund for offsetting capital gains in future years . Mutual funds distribute all their net income to the shareholders because retaining the income and using it to capitalize the fund reduces the gain by the income tax , paid at corporate tax rates , by the mutual fund ; and corporate tax rates are generally higher than personal income tax rates . The dividends and capital gains distributed to the share holders of the funds are taxable as dividends and capital gains respectively to the share holders , that is , the favorable tax treatment , if any , for such kinds of income is available to the shareholders of the mutual fund . Mutual funds allow their shareholders to reinvest their distributions in the fund , ( and many load funds do not charge the load on such reinvestments ) , but this reinvestment is a decision for the shareholder to make . But , regardless of whether the distribution is reinvested in the fund or taken in cash , the distribution is taxable income to the shareholder .
Assuming you 're in the US , you can also access CPI for major cities / regions . The US Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) publishes a PDF each month with details on how prices of services , food , and other goods has increased or decreased : <URL>
Here is one from a Bloomberg partnership , it is <URL> . To get the end of day prices , you may need some programming done . PM me if you need help with that . Getting bond quotes and general information about a bond issue is considerably more difficult than researching a stock or a mutual fund . A major reason for this is that there is not a lot of individual investor demand for the information ; therefore , most bond information is available only through higher level tools that are not accessible to the average investor . Read more : Where can I get bond market quotes ? | Investopedia <URL>
You wo n't be able to know the trading activity in a timely , actionable method in most cases . The exception is if the investor ( individual , fund , holding company , non-profit foundation , etc ) is a large shareholder of a specific company and therefore required to file their intentions to buy or sell with the SEC . The threshold for this is usually if they own 5 % or greater of the outstanding shares . You can , however , get a sense of the holdings for some of the entities you mention with some sleuthing . Publicly-Traded Holding Companies Since you mention Warren Buffett , Berkshire Hathaway is an example of this . Publicly traded companies ( that are traded on a US-based exchange ) have to file numerous reports with the SEC . Of these , you should review their Annual Report and monitor all filings on the SEC 's website . <URL> Private Foundations Harvard and Yale have private , non-profit foundations . The first place to look would be at the Form 990 filings each is required to file with the IRS . Two sources for these filings are GuideStar.org and the FoundationCenter.org . Keep in mind that if the private foundation is a large enough shareholder in a specific company , they , too , will be required to file their intentions to buy or sell shares in that company . Private Individuals Unless the individual publicly releases their current holdings , the only insight you may get is what they say publicly or have to disclose -- again , if they are a major shareholder .
No , the expense ratio would be something you would n't be charged . If you bought shares of the ETF long , then the dividends are usually reduced by the expense ratio if you wanted to know where to find that charge in general . You would have to make up for any dividends the underlying stocks as part of general shorting since the idea is that once you buy to put back the shares , it has to appear as if they were n't missing in the first place . No , the authorized participant would handle changes to the underlying structure if needed .
end question
start question
Does earning as a non-resident remote worker on an American account make people liable for U.S taxes ?
The United States taxes nonresident aliens on two types of income : First , a nonresident alien who is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is taxed on income that is effectively connected with that trade or business . Second , certain types of U.S.-source payments are subject to income tax withholding . The determination of when a nonresident alien is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is highly fact-specific and complex . However , keeping assets in a U.S. bank account should not be treated as a U.S. trade or business . A nonresident alien 's interest income is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding at a rate of 30 percent under Section 1441 of the tax code . Interest on bank deposits , however , benefit from an exception under Section 1441 ( c ) ( 10 ) , so long as that interest is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business . Even though no tax needs to be withheld on interest on a bank deposit , the bank should still report that interest each year to the IRS on Form 1042-S . The IRS can then send that information to the tax authority in Brazil . Please keep in mind that state and local tax rules are all different , and whether interest on the bank deposits is subject to state or local tax will depend on which state the bank is in . Also , the United States does tax nonresident aliens on wages paid from a U.S. company , if those wages are treated as U.S.-source income . Generally , wages are U.S.-source income if the employee provides services while physically present in the United States . There are a few exceptions to this rule , but they depend on the amount of wages and other factors that are specific to the employee 's situation . This is an area where you should really consult with a U.S. tax advisor before the employment starts . Maybe your company will pay for it ?
<URL> and <URL> on the ATO website provide some information on tax rates . They 're rather lengthy and there 's a few exceptions , but essentially , your entire foreign income , even if held overseas , is taxable . Australians are taxed worldwide .
Nothing happens . A bank is a business ; your relationship with the bank does n't change because your visa or immigration status changes . Money held in the account is still held in the account . Interest paid on the account is still taxable . And so on . If the account is inactive long enough , abandoned account rules may apply , but that still has nothing to do with your status .
I do n't see countries switching to the USD , I see countries moving away from it . The US has the largest peace time debt ever , is not being even close to fiscally responsible ( approving ~ 4 trillion budget ! ) and is faced with 100 trillion in future commitments ( social security , medicare ) with a workforce ( tax base ) that is decreasing as the baby boomers retire . When the US can not meet those obligations ( and most experts agree there is no hope of that anymore ) they will have to print money and devalue the currency .
Some differences : Resident aliens can choose the standard deduction vs itemized deductions . Nonresident aliens can only use itemized deductions ( and only certain itemized deductions are allowed ) . In cases when one 's income is low and does n't have much itemized deductions , the standard deduction is a big benefit . A married resident alien can file jointly ( as in " Married Filing Jointly " filing status ) with their spouse if they both choose to . Two married nonresident aliens can only file separately . Filing jointly is almost always better than filing separately , especially when the two people 's incomes are very different . Resident aliens can claim dependents ( and can be claimed as dependents ) . Nonresident aliens ca n't . Nonresident aliens in F status ( and some other statuses ) <URL> from FICA tax ( Social Security tax and Medicare tax ) . Resident aliens in any status are subject to FICA tax , except for F-1 students working on campus . The foreign income of resident aliens is subject to US tax ; whereas the foreign income of nonresident aliens is n't . This only matters if you have income outside the US . Some ( but not all ) tax treaty provisions are subject to " saving clauses " that say they do not apply to residents , and thus only nonresident aliens can use them . This does n't apply to you since you said there is no tax treaty between the US and your country .
A reason to get an accountant is to avoid penalties for possible mistakes . That is , if you make a mistake , the IRS can impose penalties on you for negligence . If the professional makes the SAME mistake , the burden of proof for " negligence " shifts to the IRS , which probably means that you 'll pay more taxes and interest , but NO penalties ; hiring an accountant is prima facie evidence of NOT being negligent . I would get an accountant since this the first time for you in the present situation , when mistakes are most likely . If you feel that s/he did the same for you that you would have done for yourself , then you might go back to doing your own taxes in later years .
Chase does not have to verify the identity of John Doe . No new credit account is being established , so the identity check requirements are not required . The account is still owned by Larry alone ; adding an authorized user does not modify the credit agreement between Larry and Chase . Larry is the person taking the risk of adding an authorized signer , not Chase . It is Larry 's concern to verify the identity of John Doe . Every bank can decide at their discretion if/how authorized users are reported to the credit bureau ( s ) . You may submit a request asking them to report or not report , but it is unlikely they will deviate from a standard policy to honor your request .
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
Remote Deposit usually means a scanner and some software and has a monthly fee associated with it ( so it only makes sense for businesses , and even then only some businesses ) . Chase and USAA allow you to make deposits via your iPhone which is aimed at consumers and has some deposit limits associated with it ( checks have to be less than some $ $ ) . I 've used both . Remote Deposit is super easy , the software usually sucks , but it 's too expensive for personal users ( $ 60/month at citibank ) . Chase deposits have worked on my iPhone usually after 2 or 3 tries but that did save me from walking to the bank .
Income sourced to where the service was performed , so if you did n't write the article in the US - the income is not sourced to the US . The legal definition is in the <URL> .
Resident Alien is liable for the same taxes as a citizen . Citizenship has nothing to do with taxes .
The time to take advantage of this downgrade was BEFORE it happened , not after . Typically responding to an event after the market has already had time to correct for it is a good way to lose money .
If you have enough experience and information to make a reasonable guess as to the likelihood of ( 1 ) , then it makes sense to hold , generally speaking . If it were ME , and I did n't have much experience or knowledge on the specific companies involved , I 'd probably take the gain . But that 's just what I would do , based on the isolated and limited info you provided . Reality is probably a lot more complicated .
The contract is not very clear . As much as I can understand it will still help if you make part prepayments . In an Rule 78 or Actuarial method , the schedule is drawn up front and the break-up of interest and principal for each month is calculated ahead . At the beginning both the reducing balance method as well as Actuarial method will give the same schedule . However in Actuarial method , if you make part prepayments , they get applied to the future principals , the interest are ignored . However the future interests are not reduced . Example : Say your schedule looks something like this ; Monthly Payments say 100 ; Month | Principal | Interest 1 | 10 | 90 2 | 20 | 80 3 | 30 | 70 4 | 40 | 60 5 | 50 | 50 6 | 60 | 40 7 | 70 | 30 8 | 80 | 20 9 | 90 | 10 So lets say you have made 3 payments of 100 , in the 4th month if you make 150 [ in addition to 100 ] , it would get applied to the principal of 4th , 5th and 6th month . So essentially you would save interest of 4th , 5th and 5th month . It would also reduce the total payments to 6 . i.e. you will only have 7th , 8th , 9th due . The next payment you make of 100 will get applied to row 7 . The disadvantage of this method over reducing balance is that the interest calculated for rows 7,8,9 do n't change compared to reducing balance . However if you prepay in full , the unearned interest is calculated and returned as per the Actuarial Tables .
As per the <URL> the Social Security Tax is not considered . There is no mention of State Tax . As per the definition , only Federal Tax is considered .
The Fidelity funds have an expense ratio , and while some funds may have little to no profit , having you as a customer lets them try to sell you on their managed account/portfolio and other services . It 's possible they do n't make much or any money from you at all , but with so many accounts it 's fine as long as it averages out . Similar to having a credit card and never paying interest on it , but reaping the rewards anyway . Averaged out , they make plenty of money across all accounts . An <URL> is usually given as a percentage , and it 's the amount you pay for the fund per year . If it has a 1 % ER , and you have $ 1,000 invested in it , then it costs you $ 10 for the year ( a very simplified example ) . You wo n't notice this as a direct transaction since it gets taken from the funds assets directly , but this is lowering the return ( or worsening the loss ) on the fund . You can find the ER in your Fidelity account for any funds that are available to you . Something else I thought of is that you add liquidity to their funds , and your assets increase the amount " under management " which may be a selling point , may lower overall costs , etc. .
No , it will show on the LLC tax return ( <URL> ) , in the capital accounts ( schedules <URL> , L and M-2 ) , attributed to your partner .
Your broker should be able to provide you with the amount of foreign dividends . Most brokerage statements have an expanded section after the 1099s with dividend details , realised gains and losses , margin interest , investment fees and other detailed information that is not reported to the IRS .
StasM , It 's taken a while but many banks offer tokens - although they tend to limit the accounts for which they will be issued . All of the following issue tokens , but there are many more : CitiBank JP Morgan Union Bank Wells Fargo Callaway Bank Wachovia Bank of North Dakota The River Bank of Wisconsin Metcalf Bank , Kansas Stonebridge Bank In 2005 federal regulators stipulated that banks needed to get better with security for online banking customers , but they did not endorse a particular technology . Tokens ( aka fobs ) were endorsed . The news was negatively received by the banks because putting more steps in the way of a customer drives the customer away . See this 2005 report for more info : <URL> My guess is a tipping point was reached since then , where customers became savvy of the risks , and that the " extra steps " became less an issue than the " extra security " .
It 's not so much about time but about intent . If your intent is to move there permanently , it would be when you arrive in the state for the purposes of living there ( i.e. not from a while before that when you went to check a place out or for an interview ) . I believe that most ( if not all ) states expect you to get a Driver 's License from that state within 30-days of moving there . Something like a Driver 's License or State ID would be proof of your residency . These things vary greatly from state to state , so you 'd have to research particular states . Or find someone who 's done that already . A bit of searching , specifically for Texas , brought me to this <URL> : If you / he wish to establish residency here -- here being Texas -- get a Texas Driver 's License and Voter Registration here . Government issued ID with a Texas address is pretty much bulletproof defense against being found to be a resident of elsewhere . Your battle , if there is one , will not be with Texas , but with your present home of record state and/or local government if there are income taxes associated with having been a resident there during the tax year . Which brings up the other question : You would need to make sure that California does not have some provision that would cause you issues . ( This is n't so much a case of income from a company in the state as it about capital gains , but it is still prudent to check . )
end question
start question
Selling mutual fund and buying equivalent ETF : Can I 1031 exchange ?
I do n't believe you can do that . <URL> Finally , certain types of property are specifically excluded from Section 1031 treatment . Section 1031 does not apply to exchanges of : Inventory or stock in trade Stocks , bonds , or notes Other securities or debt Partnership interests Certificates of trust I highlighted the relevant items for emphasis .
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
Within reason , I find that it 's usually possible to find out the full holdings a mutual fund has . What I mean by this is that you ca n't go and find out a perfectly up-to-date measurement , on demand , all the time . However , you can go and pull a fund 's prospectus and it will disclose ( a ) its investment strategy , and ( b ) its holdings . For example , I own some holdings in SHRAX , which is a mutual fund . You can find its holdings as of Sept. 30 , 2013 <URL> . You can find something similar -- just a different format -- for VNQ , <URL> ( I do n't own this one ... yet . ) I get what you 're saying about the ' secret ' sauce vs. full disclosure concept . But I 'm pretty sure that only listing the top 5 or 10 holdings has more to do simplifying information . By the math , movements in the largest holdings will have the biggest impact on the change in value of a single share of the fund overall . It may even be a legal requirement ( at least in the US ) to make disclosures about the full holdings available every quarter . Maybe someone else can speak to that .
Index funds can be a very good way to get into the stock market . It 's a lot easier , and cheaper , to buy a few shares of an index fund than it is to buy a few shares in hundreds of different companies . An index fund will also generally charge lower fees than an " actively managed " mutual fund , where the manager tries to pick which stocks to invest for you . While the actively managed fund might give you better returns ( by investing in good companies instead of every company in the index ) that does n't always work out , and the fees can eat away at that advantage . ( Stocks , on average , are expected to yield an annual return of 4 % , after inflation . Consider that when you see an expense ratio of 1 % . Index funds should charge you more like 0.1 % -0.3 % or so , possibly more if it 's an exotic index . ) The question is what sort of index you 're going to invest in . The Standard and Poor 's 500 ( S&amp;P 500 ) is a major index , and if you see someone talking about the performance of a mutual fund or investment strategy , there 's a good chance they 'll compare it to the return of the S&amp;P 500 . Moreover , there are a variety of index funds and exchange-traded funds that offer very good expense ratios ( e.g. Vanguard 's ETF charges ~ 0.06 % , very cheap ! ) . You can also find some funds which try to get you exposure to the entire world stock market , e.g. Vanguard Total World Stock ETF , NYSE : VT ) . An index fund is probably the ideal way to start a portfolio - easy , and you get a lot of diversification . Later , when you have more money available , you can consider adding individual stocks or investing in specific sectors or regions . ( Someone else suggested Brazil/Russia/Indo-China , or BRICs - having some money invested in that region is n't necessarily a bad idea , but putting all or most of your money in that region would be . If BRICs are more of your portfolio then they are of the world economy , your portfolio is n't balanced . Also , while these countries are experiencing a lot of economic growth , that does n't always mean that the companies that you own stock in are the ones which will benefit ; small businesses and new ventures may make up a significant part of that growth . ) Bond funds are useful when you want to diversify your portfolio so that it 's not all stocks . There 's a bunch of portfolio theory built around asset allocation strategies . The idea is that you should try to maintain a target mix of assets , whatever the market 's doing . The basic simplified guideline about investing for retirement says that your portfolio should have ( your age ) % in bonds ( e.g. a 30-year-old should have 30 % in bonds , a 50-year-old 50 % . ) This helps maintain a balance between the volatility of your portfolio ( the stock market 's ups and downs ) and the rate of return : you want to earn money when you can , but when it 's almost time to spend it , you do n't want a sudden stock market crash to wipe it all out . Bonds help preserve that value ( but do n't have as nice of a return ) . The other idea behind asset allocation is that if the market changes - e.g. your stocks go up a lot while your bonds stagnate - you rebalance and buy more bonds . If the stock market subsequently crashes , you move some of your bond money back into stocks . This basically means that you buy low and sell high , just by maintaining your asset allocation . This is generally more reliable than trying to " time the market " and move into an asset class before it goes up ( and move out before it goes down ) . Market-timing is just speculation . You get better returns if you guess right , but you get worse returns if you guess wrong . Commodity funds are useful as another way to diversify your portfolio , and can serve as a little bit of protection in case of crisis or inflation . You can buy gold , silver , platinum and palladium ETFs on the stock exchanges . Having a small amount of money in these funds is n't a bad idea , but commodities can be subject to violent price swings ! Moreover , a bar of gold does n't really earn any money ( and owning a share of a precious-metals ETF will incur administrative , storage , and insurance costs to boot ) . A well-run business does earn money . Assuming you 're saving for the long haul ( retirement or something several decades off ) my suggestion for you would be to start by investing most of your money * in index funds to match the total world stock market ( with something like the aforementioned NYSE : VT , for instance ) , a small portion in bonds , and a smaller portion in commodity funds . ( For all the negative stuff I 've said about market-timing , it 's pretty clear that the bond market is very expensive right now , and so are the commodities ! ) Then , as you do additional research and determine what sort investments are right for you , add new investment money in the places that you think are appropriate - stock funds , bond funds , commodity funds , individual stocks , sector-specific funds , actively managed mutual funds , et cetera - and try to maintain a reasonable asset allocation . Have fun . * ( M
If your stock is rising and you want to buy on a dip , the best way to do this is by looking at the chart and incorporating simple Technical Analysis techniques . Firstly , an uptrend is defined as a price chart with higher highs and higher lowers . If you get a lower high or a lower low ( or both ) , it could be the end of the uptrend - be cautious . This can be seen on the chart below with an uptrend line drawn . If you draw a trend line you can wait for the price to approach the trend line , bounce off it and start moving up again to buy your stock on a dip . If instead the price closes below the trend line , be very cautious - this could be the end of the uptrend and the start of a downtrend - no telling how low the price will go . If this is the case you can then draw a downtrend line and wait for the price to close above the downtrend line before making your purchase .
First off , you generally want to park your emergency fund somewhere that is " safe " , meaning something that is not subject to market fluctuations . Your emergency fund is something you need to be able to count on when times are tough ! That rules out things like stock market investments . Secondly , you need to think about how quickly you will need access to the money . If you have an emergency , odds are you do n't want to be waiting around for weeks/months/years for the money to become available . This rules out most fixed-term investments ( Bonds , traditional CDs , etc ) . If you are concerned that you will need near-instant access to your emergency money , then you probably want to keep it in a Savings or Money Market Account at the same bank as your checking account . Most banks will let you transfer money between local accounts instantly . Unfortunately , your local bank probably has pitiful interest rates for the Savings/MMA , far below the inflation rate . This means your money will slowly lose value over time . Be prepared to keep contributing to it ! For most people , being able to draw the cash from your fund within a few days ( < 1 week ) is sufficient . Worst case , you charge something on your credit card , and then pay down the card when the emergency fund withdrawal arrives . If " money within a few days " is okay for you , there are a few options : Money Market ( Mutual ) Funds ( not to be confused with a Money Market Account ) - This is the traditional place to keep an emergency fund . These are investment funds you can buy with a brokerage account . An example of such a fund would be <URL> . MMFs are not FDIC insured , so they are not exactly zero risk . However , they are considered extremely safe . They almost never go down in value ( only a few times in the past few decades ) , and when they have , the fund manager or the Federal Govt stepped in to restore the value . They usually offer slightly better return than a local savings account , and are available in taxable and non-taxable varieties . Online High-Yield Savings or Money Market Account - These are a relatively new invention . It 's basically a the same thing as what your local bank offers , but it 's online-only . No local branch means low overhead , so they offer higher interest rates ( 2.0 % vs 0.5 % for your local bank ) . Some of them used to be over 5 % before the economy tanked . Like your local bank , it is FDIC insured . One bit of caution : Some of these accounts have become " gimmicky " lately . They have started to do things like promo rates for a few months , only offering the high interest rate on the first few $ K deposited , limiting the amount that can be withdrawn , etc. . Be sure to read the details before you open an account ! No-Penalty CDs - Certificates of Deposit usually offer a better rate than a Savings Account , but your money is locked up until the CD term is up ( e.g. 36 months ) . If you need to cash out before then , you pay a penalty . Some banks have begun to offer CDs that you can cash out with no penalty at all . These can offer better rates than the savings account . Make sure it really is no-penalty though . Also watch what your options are for slowly adding money over time . This can be an issue if you want to deposit $ 100 from every paycheck . Rewards Checking Accounts - These are checking accounts that will pay a relatively high interest rate ( 3 % or more ) provided you generate enough activity . Most of them will have requirements like you must have direct deposit setup with them , and you must do a minimum number of debit card transactions from the account per month . If you can stay on top of the requirements , these can be a great deal . If you do n't stay on top of it , your interest rate usually drops back to something pitiful , though . Personally , we use the Online High-Yield Savings Account for our emergency fund . I 'm not going to make a specific recommendation as to which bank to use . The best deal changes almost week to week . Instead , I will say to check out <URL> for a list of savings accounts and CDs that you can sort . The <URL> is a good place to follow rate changes .
Usually , you can buy ETFs through brokerages . I looked at London to see if there 's any familiar brokerage names , and it appears that the address below is to Fidelity Investments Worldwide and <URL> indicates that you can buy securities . Any brokerage , in theory , should allow you to invest in securities . You could always call and ask if they allow you to invest in ETFs . Some brokerages may also allow you to purchase securities in other countries ; for instance , some of the firms in the U.S. allow investors to invest in the ETF HK :2801 , which is not a U.S. ETF . Many countries have ETF securities available to local and foreign investors . <URL> appears to help point people to brokers in London . Also , <URL> on this site ( a UK investor who 's invested in the U.S. through Barclays ) .
Sale of a stock creates a capital gain . It can be offset with losses , up to $ 3000 more than the gains . It can be deferred when held within a retirement account . When you gift appreciated stock , the basis follows . So when I gifted my daughter 's trust shares , there was still tax due upon sale . The kiddy tax helped reduce but not eliminate it . And there was no quotes around ownership . The money is gone , her account is for college . No 1031 exchange exists for stock .
Wikipedia has a fairly detailed explanation of ETFs . <URL>
You can OPEN whatever accounts you wish , you can only FUND your retirement accounts ( i.e. IRA + Roth IRA ) up to the annual contribution limit . Any given individual 's annual contribution limit for 2013/14 is $ 5,500 ( $ 6,500 if you are older than 50 ) . Remember you can open and fund any account ( as if it were done in the previous year ) prior to the tax filing deadline of the given year . E.g. . You can still open 2013 accounts until you file your 2013 tax return . Examples : During 2013 you open an IRA and fund it with $ 2,500 . You can open a Roth IRA in 2013 and fund it $ 3,000 . For a total of $ 5,500 ( contribution limit ) . During 2013 you open an IRA and fund it with $ 5,500 . During 2014 you open a Roth IRA and fund it with $ 5,500 . Your spouse is allowed to do the same , effectively doubling the contribution limit . Mind you your contributions to not exceed your income in the same taxable year . Assuming you are filing jointly this " doubled " limit can even be met even if only one spouse has earned income ! AS SPOUSES , the total combined annual contribution limit is " doubled . " So $ 11,000 normally and $ 13,000 if you are each 50 + ( $ 12,000 if one < 50 and one 50 + ) . All this is to say , as an individual you are allowed up to $ 5,500 / 6,500 per year divided among whatever accounts you choose and up to $ 11,000 / $ 13,000 per year as spouses ( two individuals ) .
Does my prior answer here to a slightly different question help at all ? <URL>
Pros Being able to buy a house with less than 10 % down . Specifically , as little as 3.5 % . Maximum debt-to-income allowed in 41 % , which may or may not be better than what you can get at a bank . Cons Paying Mortgage insurance out the wazoo . Nobody thinks about it this way , but FHA loans are actually quite expensive because of this . You 'll pay two Mortgage insurances : 1 % one time fee at closing 1.15 % per year ongoing Plus , it 's harder to get out of down the road that regular PMI . With regular PMI , you can stop paying it when your loan to value drops below 80 % . With FHA , you a ) must have been paying for at least 5 years , and b ) it 's 78 % loan to value where " value " is the initial appraised value at closing , NOT the current value . In other words , the equity you get from your home rising in value does not count , whereas it does with regular bank PMI . I 've calculated that if you do n't make extra payments , you 'll be paying PMI for about 14 years . Note that for all practical purposes , you 'd have to get a interest rate of less than 4.85 % for your effective interest rate ( interest + pmi ) to drop below 6 % . That 's not counting the effect of that additional 1 % up front .
Buying the right shares gives higher return . Buying the wrong ones gives worse return , possibly negative . The usual recommendation , even if you have a pro advising you , is to diversify most of your investments to reduce the risk , even though that may reduce the possible gain . A mutual fund is diversification-in-a-can . It requires little to no active maintenance . Yes , you pay a management fee , but you are n't paying per-transaction fees every time you adjust your holdings , and the management costs can be quite reasonable if you pick the right funds ; minimal in the case of computer-managed ( index ) funds . If you actively enjoy playing with stocks and bonds and are willing/able to accept your failures and less-than-great choices as part of the game , and if you can convince yourself that you will do better this way , go for it . For those of us who just want to deposit out money , watch it grow , and maybe rebalance once a year if that , index funds are a perfectly good choice . I spend at least 8 hours a day working for my money ; the rest of the time , I want my money to work for me . Risk and reward tend to be proportional to each other ; when they are n't , market prices tend to move to correct that . You need to decide how much risk you 're comfortable with , and how much time and effort and money you 're willing to spend managing that risk . Personally , I am perfectly happy with the better-than-market-rate-of-return I 'm getting , and I do n't have any conviction that I could do better if I was more involved . Your milage will vary . If folks did n't disagree , there would n't be a market .
It depends on what you mean by " break even . " If you 're trying to end up where you started financially before you started the process of buying the house then you 're asking a lot . You 're essentially asking to get free housing for the 1 1/2 years . The only " income " you have from this process is the additional equity in the house ( the principal reduction of your mortgage ) . Everything else is an expense : all of the fees you incurred buying the house all fees that you will incur selling the house ( including a 6 % commission possibly , plus closing cost concessions to the buyer in the neighborhood of 3 % , which are common these days ) all interest , taxes , and insurance all improvements all utilities Add up all of those expenses , and subtract the increase in equity , and that 's the difference in your sales prices and your purchase price . It 's a big difference . You may have been able to pull this off 6-7 years ago , but probably not now . A more realistic goal is to at least lose only what it would have cost you to rent a comparable house . ( That 's essentially what you 're doing anyway . )
My understanding is that the traditional mutual funds use part of the expense ratio for advertising of the mutual fund to increase the number of shareholders . I do n't think ETF 's are advertised as heavily or directly to potential investors . Also , the statistics could be skewed because it seems like a lot of ETFs do not have active portfolio management and simply track a particular investment index . This would reduce the overhead expense of an investment research team to investigate and select the investments for the fund .
Fidelity offers <URL> . If the motivation to this question is reduced cost then a better strategy would be to use a lower cost broker because the real ETF cost is not the cost to acquire so long as the acquisition is in bulk but the percentage of total investment lost each year to ETF fees . Saving a trade fee instead of saving one percent of one 's assets is a bad trade to me . VOO for the S&amp;P 500 and QQQ for the NASDAQ-100 would be the lowest cost alternatives .
If this is your money , and if you can - if asked - prove that you legally made it , there is no limit . You pay taxes on your income , so sending it into the world is tax free . Your citizenship is not relevant for that .
Yes , definitely . Many municipalities and local governments issue bonds to fund various projects ( schools , hospitals , infrastructure , etc ) . You can buy these bonds and in that way invest in these things . In the US these kinds of bonds are tax-free , i.e. : the income they provide is not taxed ( by the US government , may be taxed by your State , check local tax laws ) . There are also dedicated mutual funds that that is all they invest in , if you do n't want to deal with picking individual bonds . As to mom-and-pop stores - that would not be as easy , as mom-and-pop stores are by definition family owned and you can invest in them only if you are personally acquainted with them . Instead , you can invest in small regional/local chains , that while not being mom-and-pop , still small enough to be considered " local " , but are publicly traded so that you can easily invest in them . You 'll have to look for these . You can also use social lending platforms , like <URL> or others , where you can participate in a lending pool to other people . You can invest in a credit union by opening an account there . Credit unions are owned by their account holders .
The rates are always one way round - in this case they are saying that 1 AUD is worth 0.882 or 0.7448 USD . You can check the general scale with plenty of other websites which are more explicit about what they mean , e.g. Google for " 1 AUD in USD " and it currently says " 1 AUD equals 0.79 USD " . The differences in the rates you 've been quoted are because the bank wants to make a profit . If you want to convert your 1 AUD to USD , you pay the worse rate and will get 0.7448 USD . If you want to convert back , you need 0.882 USD to get 1 AUD . When you see just one rate from somewhere like Google it is a " mid-market " rate . It 's not a rate that you could either buy or sell at , but in some sense it 's a measure of what the " real " rate is .
Look at the previous owner and the maintenance records they have for the car . Someone who has regularly serviced the car ( and I mean more than just an oil change , preferably maintenance history from a reputable garage or main dealer [ 1 ] ) and has n't skimped on it . Also , keep in mind that the newer the car , the more electronic components they have that can go expensively wrong , especially if you fall prey to a garage whose method for debugging electronics is to throw components at the car for a grand a pop . I tend to look for the following ( but I am a bit " special " when it comes to buying vehicles ) : Clean vehicle . Someone who ca n't even be bothered to chuck out ten days ' worth of burger wrappers and empty drinks cans before showing a car to a prospective buyer obviously cares so much about the car that they take good care of it , right . Matched , name brand tires . That 's a bit of an odd one but a good indicator that someone 's willing to spend money on their car . If you see a car with four different tires on , three of them made in North Korea , that 's not a good sign Check the colour of the brake fluid - the darker it is , the older it is . Most people will change the oil regularly but forget about the brake fluid , even though that should be changed every year or two , too . It 's a good indicator of how thoroughly the vehicle has been serviced . Maintenance receipts . You want someone who keeps the receipts to show what work has been done . The stamp in the service book is n't worth that much unless you can go see the garage who did the work . Plus , stamps have appeared in service books after the right person suddenly found themselves in possession of a Benjamin . Before you go see a vehicle , go find the forum for it and have a look for the sort of problems people tend to encounter with the vehicles . Google for problem with this particular model , find out if there are any recalls etc. . Make sure you ask the seller specific questions about these issues and if you like the vehicle but get " dunno " as the regular answer , get someone to check it out . Find out who the car nut at work is ( you know , the guy who drives odd cars , has more T-shirt with oil stains than without them and tends to have permanent ingrained oil residue under their fingernails ) and ask him nicely if he 'd be willing to help you check out a car . Most of us will if we 've got the time , and most of us have made pretty much every purchase mistake in the book . More than once , but we should be able to recognise it and stop you from falling into the same trap . Once you found something you like , get it checked out by a mechanic , preferably by a specialist for the make/model or at least a main dealer . Get them to provide you with a list of work the vehicle needs and have them explain to you the importance of each line item . If the vehicle requires work - especially when the seller kind of forgot/didn ' t realise certain work was needed - go back and haggle or walk away . Do n't , ever , believe what a used car salesweasel tells you . If they tell you it 's afternoon , get a second independent opinion . Yes , I know there are a few good helpful ones out there but there are also a bunch of rip-off artists out there and IMHO they are the majority as that seems to be the way that most dealerships load the dice . If you are searching for a car as a transportation appliance ( as opposed to someone like me who tends to seek out a vehicle because I want a specific model ) , be prepared to walk away from a vehicle . Do n't get emotionally attached to it because it 's the correct colour and thus overlook the hole in the floor that would make Fred Flintstone proud . Work out what the vehicle is worth , have a look at the work it needs and if the two numbers do n't look good together , go walk . And do n't forget the golden rules of car buying : Never buy the first one you see . If you are looking for a specific model , make sure you check out several so you get a feel if one of them is a dog . Buy the best condition car you can afford within your budget . That 's condition , not mileage or extras . Extras are mostly worth zilch anyway , and I 'd rather have a car with 100k on it that 's maintained perfectly than one with 25k on the clock that 's never had brake fluid or an oil change . [ 1 ] Unfortunately that might not be one and the same place
end question
start question
If you buy a new home before selling the old one , what could happen from not paying the old mortgage ?
Late-payment fees , damage to your credit , and the risk that you might not actually get to sell and may therefore miss more than just one or two payments .
Roth IRAs divide your withdrawal into 3 categories : Contributions , Conversions , and Earnings . This is significant , because each have different tax consequences and the order of withdrawal is dictated by tax law . Contributions - First to be withdrawn . This is the money you invested and has already had taxes paid on it . No taxes will need to be paid on it . Conversions - Second to be withdrawn . This is money converted from a traditional IRA and does sound like it applies in your question . Earnings - Last to be withdrawn . This is investment gain made from contributions and conversions . You can withdraw your contributions in less than 5 years for any reason ( home buyer or not ) . You can not withdraw your conversions or earnings without waiting 5 years unless you pay the 10 % penalty . The home buyer exemption is only after the 5 years are met . Further detail found on the motley fool : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> .
If you ca n't find anyone to lend you the shares , then you ca n't short . You can attempt to raise the interest rate at which you will borrow at , in order to entice others to lend you their shares . In practice , broadcasting this information is pretty convoluted . If there are n't any stocks for you to buy back , then you have to buy back at a higher price . As in , place a limit buy order higher and higher until someone decides to sell to you . This affects your profit . Regarding the public ledger : This functions different in different markets . United States stock markets have an evolving body of regulations to alleviate the exact concerns you detailed , but Canada 's or Dubai 's stock markets would have different provisions . You make the assumption that it is an efficient process , but it is not and it is indeed ripe for abuse . In US stocks , the public ledger has a 3 business day delay between showing change of ownership . Many times brokers and clearing firms and other market participants allow a customer to go short with fake shares , with the idea that they will find real shares within the 3 business day time period to cover the position . During the time period that there is no real shares hitting the market , this is called a " naked short " . The only legal system that attempts to deter this practice is the " fail to deliver " ( FTD ) list . If someone fails to deliver , that means there is a short position active with fake shares for which no real shares have been borrowed against . Too many FTD 's allow for a short selling restriction to be placed , meaning nobody else can be short , and existing short sellers may be forced to cover .
There are brokers that offer mutual funds with no fee . Others offer no commission ETFs . This would enable you to buy funds or ETFs from multiple fund families , if that 's your wish , but keep them in the same account . My own preference is to keep things as simple as possible , the fewer accounts , the better . If somehow one broker 's offering is n't to your liking , you should be able to do it with 2 . Great start , and the Roth is a great choice to kickstart your retirement account .
Yes , almost certainly . Probably as easy as asking your broker.There are some complications in owning foreign stocks in a foreign currency . Currency conversion costs ( and risks ) are one , and there may be withholding tax on dividends or other costs/complications in getting money out . Since your country Colombia has <URL> with the U.S. , I believe your dividends will be subject to a 30 % withholding tax . It can be reduced to 15 % in the case of tax treaty countries ( after submitting a W8BEN form ) . Suggest you explore the tax implications with information from sources in your country .
The calculators on this site should help : <URL> They allow you to choose a currency ( only about half a dozen are available ) , enter an amount and the years to compare , and then provides feedback in a table . Obviously you will need to be careful which calculator you choose . If they do n't cover the currencies you are dealing with , see this site : <URL> They provide numerous links that , while they do n't provide sleek calculators per se , they do offer guidance on how to handle conversions yourself . Regarding comparing the cost to something like gold , to try and help younger readers , I think it 's a good idea but gold is not the ideal choice for comparison . I 'd recommend something more tangible like household goods - what a Playstation would have cost in 1930s money etc. . In short : the value of gold is esoteric even for most adults - concrete examples would be better .
Assets held within an ISA or New ISA <URL> , so you wo n't have to pay either income tax or capital gains tax .
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
No , you can not withdraw the money until settlement day . Some brokers will allow you to trade with unsettled funds , but you can not withdraw it until it is settled . Think about it , when you buy stock you have to pay for them by T +3 , so if you sell you actually do n't receive the funds until T +3 .
As you are 14 , you can not legally buy premium bonds yourself . Your parents could buy them and hold them for you , mind you . That said , I 'm not a fan of premium bonds . They are a rather weird combination of a savings account and a lottery . Most likely , you 'll receive far less than the standard interest rate you 'd get from a savings account . Sure , they may pay off , but they probably wo n't . What I would suggest , given that you expect to need the money in five years , is simply place it in a savings account . Shop around for the best interest rate you can find . <URL> lists interest rates , though you 'll want to confirm that it is up to date . There are other investment options . You could invest in a mutual fund which tracks the stock market or the bond market , for example . On average , that 'll give you a higher rate of return . But there 's more risk , and as you want the money in five years , I 'd be uncomfortable recommending that at this time . If you were looking at investing for 25 years , that 'd be a no-brainer . But it 's a bit risky for 5 years . Your investment may go down , and that 's not something I 'd have been happy with when I was 14 . There may be some other options specific to the UK which I do n't know about . If so , hopefully someone else will chime in .
Home equity loan is a kind of a mortgage loan . So you 're basically asking " what 's better : mortgage or mortgage ? " . Home equity loan is usually taken as a second mortgage on the house , while you 're still paying the initial one , but accumulated some equity in the property . In the scenario you 're describing , there 's no " second mortgage " , there 's only one mortgage . You can call it " The wonderful glorious bestest ever mortgage " or you can call it " home equity mortgage " , and it would make no difference to the essence . Look at the numbers , and decide which terms are better , not which name sounds nicer to you .
You must leap frog . Open the new account ( which increases your credit limit and decreases your utilization , therefore increasing your credit score a tad ) then close the old account a bit later . Closing will have opposite effect on your score . ( Decreasing your overall limit and increasing your utilization . ) Unless you are paying an annual fee , I would n't bother actually closing the old account , just stop using it and shred the cards . The bank will close it for you eventually . By the way , if you are planning on letting it expire , do n't forget to keep it up to date in your budget or tracking software . And do n't lose any online account information either . You still need to pay attention to it for odd activity and keep it secure . If you are paying an annual fee , and it is due soon , then I would suggest closing it after you have your new card to avoid the fee .
They are taxed , but you are allowed to deduct cost . So you only profit if you sell them for more than you paid . If you are truly worried about taxes , you might be better off donating them to Goodwill and writing off the donation
I found a page , <URL> , listing fuel taxes by province . Ontario 's gas prices already includes 14.7 cents per litre of provincial fuel tax , and comments noted " Additional taxes include 5 % GST . " For Nova Scotia and New Brunswick , where HST is in effect , comments noted " Additional taxes include 13 % HST . " That would seem to imply that if Ontario is introducing the HST , then there will be an additional 8 % added ( Ontario 's current PST ) to the price at the pump . I wanted definitive information , though , so I did a little more digging : First , I came across <URL> , at the Ontario Ministry of Revenue , confirming fuel tax of " 14.7 cents per litre of unleaded gasoline " . While it confirmed the fuel tax , it did n't mention GST or HST . Next I found <URL> , also from the Ontario MoR . That page lists goods &amp; services that wo n't be affected because they are already subject to both GST + PST , and then goes on to list those that will be affected since they are n't currently subject to PST . One item listed under " Change in Taxable Status " is gasoline : ... some goods and services that were not subject to the PST will be subject to the provincial portion ( eight per cent ) of the HST for the first time . ... Change in Taxable Status Electricity Gasoline Heating Fuels Internet Access Fees Personal Services ( e.g. , Hairstyling ) Professional Services ( e.g. , Legal , Accounting and Real Estate Fees and Commissions ) Tobacco So : I expect all-in fuel prices in Ontario to jump on July 1st , 2010 , when HST takes effect . Finally , here 's one more resource I came across : Petro Canada has a blog called <URL> with this post : <URL> ( March , 2009 ) . Relevant excerpt : ... Obviously there are many details yet to be released , so this is just for fun . If nothing were to change , simply adding the 8 % Ontario PST and applying it the same way as the GST is applied to today 's pump price in Ontario would add 6.6 cents in tax to a litre of gasoline . That means a pump price of about 92 cents per litre today in Toronto rather than 86 cents ... or about $ 2.64 more for that 40 litre fill-up . ...
Options trading at $ .01 have the same position limits as other options . Self regulatory organizations set the position limits for options which can be 250,000 contracts on one side of the book , as an example . Weeklies that are expiring soon have lots of liquidity while trading at $ 0.01 , you can see this in Bank of America stock if interested
The length of ownership matters - it 's capital gain . Because it is not primary residence , you do n't get the $ 250K capital gain exclusion ( more for married ) . By the way , for the matter of sale " primary residence " is a house you own and in which you lived 2 of the last 5 years prior to sale . So even if it is not your primary residence now , if it was recently - you can take the exclusion .
Purchase loans tend to be more challenging to get the best possible rate , because you have to balance closing the loan and getting the contract . So there is n't as much time to shop around as when you do a refinance . I disagree with the sentiment to go with your local bank . Nothing wrong with asking at your local bank and using their numbers as a baseline , but chances are they wo n't be competitive . There are many reputable online mortgage originators that will show accurate fees and rates upfront assuming you provide accurate information . In the past there were a lot of issue with Good Faith Estimates being pretty much worthless . There were a fair number of horror stories about people showing up to closing and finding out fee or rates had increased dramatically . There was a law passed after the housing debacle that severely limits the shenanigans that lenders can do at closing and so there is less risk when going with a lesser known lender . In fact I would say the only real risk with a lender now days is choosing one that happens to be overloaded and or just has poor customer service in general . Personally I have found the most competitive rates from Zillow 's mortgage service and the now defunct Google mortgage . The lenders tend to be smaller , but highly efficient . They are very much dependent on their online reputations . I have heard good things about a number of larger online lenders , but I do n't have personal experience so I will leave them off . I personally would n't worry much about whether the loan is sold or not . Outside of refinancing I do n't think I have ever talked to the bank servicing my mortgage about my mortgage . There just is n't much need to talk to them .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
You must mean the current debt ceiling debacle . The meaning of it is : US government is constantly borrowing money ( by issuing treasury bonds ) and constantly repaying some of the bonds that come to maturity , and also has other obligations it has to meet by law all the time - such as Social Security checks , bonds interest , federal employees ' salaries and pensions , etc. . By law , total amount of money that can be borrowed at the same time is capped . That means , there can be situation where the government needs to borrow money to pay , say , interest on existing bonds , but can not , since the limit is reached . Such situation is called a default , since the government promised to pay the interest , but is unable to do so . That does not mean the government has no money at all and will completely collapse or could n't raise money on the market if it were permitted by law to do so ( currently , the market is completely willing to buy the debt issued by US government , and with interest that is not very high , though of course that may change ) . It also does not mean the economy ceases to function , dollars cease to have value or banks instantly go bankrupt . But if the government breaks its promises to investors , it has various consequences such as raising the costs of borrowing in the future . Breaking promises to other people - like Social Security recipients - would also look bad and probably hurt many of them . Going back to your bank account , most probably nothing would happen to the money you store there . Even if the bank had invested 100 % of the money in US treasury bonds ( which does n't really happen ) they still can be sold on the open market , even if with some discount in the event of credit rating downgrade , so most probably your account would not be affected . As stated in another answer , even if the fallout of all these calamities causes a bank to fail , there 's FDIC and if your money is under insured maximums you 'll be getting your money back . But if your bank is one of the big ones , nothing of the sort would happen anyway - as we have seen in the past years , government would do practically anything to not allow any big bank failures .
end question
start question
How can people have such high credit card debts ?
I 'm not sure if the rules in Canada and the US are the same . I 'm as amazed as you are by the amounts of debts people have , but I can see how this credit can be extended . Generally , with good credit history and above average pay - it is not unheard of to get about $ 100K credit limit with a bunch of credit cards . What you do with that after that depends on your own ability to manage your finances and discipline . Good credit history is defined by paying your credit cards on time with at least minimum payment amount ( which is way lower than the actual statement amount ) . Above average pay is $ 60K + . So you can easily have tons of debt , yet be considered " low risk " with good credit history . And that 's the most lucrative market for the credit card issuers - people who do not default , but also have debt and pay interest .
Between half a year and a year should be enough to improve your interest rates drastically on car loan refinance . Make sure that your new credit card has already been reported to the agencies , and that the credit/debt ratio is lower than 30 % on your revolving ( credit card ) accounts . That also means that you should n't carry too much balance , even if the APR is 0 % .
TL ; DR summary : 0 % balance transfer offers and " free checks usable anywhere " rarely are a good deal for the customer . 0 % rate balance transfer offers ( and the checks usable anywhere including payment of taxes ) come with a transaction fee because the credit card company is paying off the balance on the other card ( or the tax or the electric bill ) in the full amount of $ X as stated on the other card statement or on the tax/electric bill ) . This is in contrast to a purchase transaction where if you buy something for $ X , you pay the card company $ X but the card company pays the merchant something less than $ X$ . ( Of course , the merchant has jacked up the sale price of the item to pass on the charge to you . ) Can you get the credit card company to waive the transaction fee ? You can try asking them but it is unlikely that you will succeed if your credit score is good ! I have seen balance transfer offers with no transaction fees made to people who have do n't have good credit scores and are used to carrying a balance on their credit cards . I assume that the company making the offer knows that it will make up the transaction fee from future interest payments . A few other points to keep in mind with respect to using a 0 % balance transfer offer to pay off a student loan ( or anything else for that matter ) : The unpaid part of the 0 % rate balance becomes subject to an interest rate that might be higher than the regular interest rate once the 0 % period expires . So , do n't pay off more of the student loan than you could have managed to pay directly over the 0 % rate period or you will be in a bigger hole when the 0 % rate period expires . After you accept a 0 % offer , your card 's status changes to " Did n't pay off last month 's statement due in full by the due date " and so interest is charged on new purchases from the date of purchase , that is , there is no " grace period " of 25 days to pay off the credit card without having to pay interest . The only way to avoid interest charges on purchases is to pay off in timely fashion the entire balance ( including the 0 % rate balance ) shown on the first monthly statement that you receive after acceptance of the offer ( balance transfer or check usage ) . So , at best , the transaction fee will be prepaid interest for a period of 55 days or so , making the APR much more than stated in Dheer 's answer . Of course , if you have a zero balance on the card , and can put away your credit card and not use it at all during the 0 % interest rate period , you can make this work in your favor . ( There is an answer somewhere on money.SE by Moderator @JoeTaxpayer that describes how he paid off a huge chunk of his mortgage via a 0 % rate loan , but very few of us can match his savvy or his iron discipline ) . If you are used to interest being charged from Day One of each purchase and rarely pay off the monthly statement in full , then be aware that if only the minimum payment due is made , that amount will be applied to the 0 % balance . Meanwhile , all your purchases and finance charges on them will continue to accrue unpaid . The CARD Act of 2009 mandates that the part of the payment that exceeds the minimum required payment must be applied to the part of the balance that has the highest interest rate . But , the minimum payment due ( or any lesser amount ) can be applied to whichever part of the balance the credit card company chooses , and they invariably choose to apply it to the lowest interest rate balance .
It has more to do with who is paying the credit processors for the service , than what the goods really are . Essentially speaking , when you purchase goods worth $ 100 using your card , the store has to pay about $ 2 for the transaction to the company that operates that stores ' credit card terminal . If you withdraw cash from an ATM , you might be charged a fee for such a transaction . However , the ATM operator does n't pay the credit processor such a transaction fee - thus , it is classified as a cash transaction . It 's an attempt to discourage certain behavior . It is also used ( at least deciding to accrue interest immediately ) to prevent users from paying back one CC using a cash advance from another - this way one could run on grace periods indefinitely . Additionally , performing cash advances off a CC is a rather good indicator of a bad financial health of the user , which increase the risk of default , and in some institutions is a factor contributing to their internal creditworthiness assessment .
If you have zero activity on a card , the issuing bank may decide to close that card . They have some costs each month , and if you are n't using the card they are n't making money off of you . Your inactivity is also a risk because if you lost the card , and do n't realize it , and it falls into the wrong hands then it can be used for fraudulent transactions . In their view it might already have been hijacked . If they close your account that can hurt your score : your utilization number will go up , and the age of your accounts could go down . They want you to use their card so they make money on the transaction fees and hopefully interest payments .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
Yes , citibank allows you to create <URL> . I use it a few times a year when buy something from abroad . It 's actually not a one time but rather one number per merchant . Once you use it ( let 's say at amazon ) you can keep using it at amazon until it expires . You set the limit and the expiration months .
One alternative strategy you may want to consider is writing covered calls on the stock you have " just sitting there " . This will allow you to earn a return ( the premium from the calls ) without necessarily having to give up your holding . As a brief overview , " options " are derivatives that give the holder the right ( or option ) to buy or sell shares at a specified price . Holders of call options with a strike prike $ x on a particular security have the right to purchase that security at the strike price $ x. Conversely , holders of put options with a strike price of $ x have the right to sell that security at the strike price $ x. Always on the other side of a call or put option is a person that has sold the option , which is called " writing " the option . If this person writes a call option , then he will be obligated to sell a certain amount of stock ( 100 shares per contract ) at the strike price if that option is exercised . A writer of a put option will be obligated to by 100 shares per contract at the strike price if that option is exercised . Covered calls involve writing call contracts on stock that you own . For example , say you own 100 shares of AAPL , and that AAPL is currently trading for $ 330 . You decide to write a Jan 21 , 2012 call on these shares at a strike price of $ 340 , earning you a premium of say $ 300 . Two things can now happen : if the price of AAPL is not at least $ 340 on January 21 , then the options are " out of the money " and will expire unexercised ( why exercise an option to buy at $ 340 when you can buy at the currently cheaper market price ? ) . You keep your AAPL stock plus the $ 300 premium you earn . If , however , the price of AAPL is greater than $ 340 , the option will be exercised and you will now be required to sell the shares you own at $ 340 . You will earn a return of $ 10/share ( $ 340 - $ 330 ) , plus the $ 300 premium from the call option . You still make out in the end , but have unfortunately incurred an opportunity cost , as had you not written the call option you would have been able to sell at the market price , which is higher than the $ 340 strike price . Covered calls are considered relatively safe and conservative , however the strategy is most effective for stocks that are expected to stay within a relatively narrow price range for the duration of the contract . They do provide one option of earning additional money on stocks you are currently holding , albeit at the risk of giving up some returns if the stock price rises above the strike price .
My answer will provide a general guideline , which is what I believe you are asking for . You must keep in mind , a budget is not a one size fits all type of deal and should be personalized . With that said ; lets begin . All my numbers will be based on your ' take home ' cash , meaning the money you get after taxes , 401k contribution , or any other amount withdrawn by your employer . I also assume you have no revolving debt . If you spend less on one category you can always transfer that amount onto another . So for example , if you take public transportation and your cost is less then 15 % you can allocate the remaining amount between which ever categories you like . Your savings budget will also depend on your age , investment returns , and other various risk factors you might be exposed to . If your employer does not provide you with a 401k or contribute to any retirement plan I suggest you consider raising the amount in the savings category . The most important thing is to stay within your budget and realizing that you should spend money in this order - > Necessities , Savings , Luxuries . You have a 2 % margin of error for any times you may go over budget . Cutting into that 2 % should be a warning sign that tells you ; " hey , I 'm going over budget I need to cut back on something " . So do n't make a habit of it , otherwise you may find your self quickly going past that 2 % line and falling into debt . A note on medical expenses : The 5 % I suggested may vary depending on where you live , your current state of health , your income , and what options your employer offers for healthcare . You may find your self spending less or more . Your health is considered a necessity , so if you find your self spending more you should adjust your budget accordingly . Another budget is the <URL> rule . In this budget you start with your after-tax income not your ' take home ' cash . So do not deduct any 401k contributions or any other amount withdrawn by your employer . The breakdown :
After consulting an accountant , it would appear there is no problem with the shares being held jointly in two , or even more names . In the event that the shares attract a dividend it would be split equally between the shareholders and would have the same taxation implications for the shareholders as all UK company dividends . Thanks for all help provided !
You did n't mention how much is the interest rate of your debts . It is a very simple rule . % profit > % loss If you think you can make more money by investing ( the best way you can ) in spite of having debts then go ahead and invest . % profit less than % loss Else , if you donno what you 're doing and ca n't make sure you earn more than what you 're paying off for interest then may be you should focus on clearing up the debts first . You can read more about similar topic discussion <URL> Now , that you 've presented the interest rate of your loans i.e. 11 % which is your average , then I suggest you to clear up the high interest rate loans first i.e. which are above 11 % because it is very difficult to make an investment and get returns more than 11 % of what you invest . What ever be it , now that you wo n't be having big events in the coming 5 years , I suggest you to clear up all your loans and stay debt free i.e. tr to become stable and tension free . You know , because you ca n't run away anywhere with all those loans up on your shoulders , you HAVE to clear them today or tomorrow . So , now that you 're free ( in the next 5 yrs ) and burden less , so why not clear them up today ?
One is a choice the other is not . While they are both liabilities on the balance sheet , in the real world they are quite different . We do not feel as much ownership over our money that goes to interest payments as we do over our tax payments . Taxes pay for our government and the services it provides . Interest , on the other hand , is what we pay in order to have a bank loan us money . Similar to paying for a good or service obtained from some other business , we do not feel we have a say in what the bank does with that money . If we disapprove of a business ' practices , we stop doing business with them ; assuming there are other choices . We can not practically avoid dealing with our government . We certainly feel that we should have a say in what is done with our tax money . I doubt there is anyone in the world that completely approves of their government 's spending . It is very easy to feel marginalized with regard to our tax payments . For example , some people feel resentment because their taxes fund the welfare rolls . All that said , I believe there is little overlap between the two groups . It seems to me that you are referring to those with large amounts of high interest ( e.g. credit card ) debt . I doubt that a large percentage of them are scouring the tax laws , looking for deductions and loopholes . If they had that mindset , they would also be working hard to get out of the hole they are in . In summary , we choose to pay a financial adviser , to take out a loan or to obtain a credit card . We do not choose to pay taxes . Since taxes are supposed to pay for our government and things which should benefit everyone , we want a say in what is done with it . This is also the case because it is forced on us . ( " Fine son , I 'll lend you some money , but I do n't want you buying cigarettes with it . " ) Since our say is limited and we likely will not approve of everything our government does , we want to exert what control we do have : reduce our payments as best we can .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
There are 3 entities in a credit card transaction ; The Merchant Bank/Acquiring bank that provides the POS to the Merchant where you buy / swipe your card . This bank is the one that acquires the funds at the end of transaction . The Card Network [ Visa/Master/etc ] The Issuing Bank [ the Bank that issues you a credit card ] Typically when you swipe for 100 , the merchant only gets around 97.5 . The 2.5 is divided amongst the 3 entities , roughly around 0.5 for the Merchant Bank , around 0.5 for the Card Network and a lions share to Issuing Bank of around 1.5 The reason Issuing Bank gets large share is because they take the risk and provide the credit to customer . Typically the Issuing Bank would pay the Merchant bank via the Card Network the money in couple of days . So the Merchant Bank is not out of funds . The Issuing Bank on the other hand would have given you a credit of say 10 to 50 days depending on when you made the transaction and when the payment is due . On an average 30 days of credit . So roughly the Acquiring Bank is lending money at the rate of 18 % . It is from this money the Issuing Bank would give out rewards , which is typically less than 1 % . Also in cases where say Merchant Bank and the Issuing Bank are same , Bank would make money on both the legs of transaction and hence launch co-branded cards with better rewards . The above numbers are illustrative and actual practices vary from Bank to Bank to card Network to Country Related question at <URL>
It 's harder than you think . Once card companies start seeing your debt to credit line ratios climb , they will slash your credit lines quickly . Also , cash credit lines are always much smaller , so in reality , such a scheme would require you to buy goods that can be converted to cash , which dilutes your gains and makes it more likely that you 're going to get detected and busted . Think of the other problems . Where do you store your ill-gotten gains ? How do you get the money out of the country ? How will your actions affect your family and friends ? Also , most people are basically good people -- the prospect of defrauding $ 100k , leaving family and friends behind and living some anonymous life in a third world country is n't an appealing one . If you are criminally inclined , building up a great credit history is not very practical -- most criminals are by nature reactive and want quick results .
If you read a bit on this site you will see warnings about closing accounts . Yes , what you propose to do can work , as long as your timing is right , and you watch your score . You get a minor ding for pulls to your report ( credit inquiries ) , for high utilization , and for low average account age . For your goals , you should only get cards that have no annual fee , and let them accumulate . At some point , you will have enough available credit that any balance wont cause high utilization , and canceling a card wont kill your average age .
When accounts are completely closed , they may still appear on the credit report 10 years later . Note - I 'm not supposing this , I pulled a report a couple months ago , and it shows a mortgage paid in full in July , 2003 . I 'll see if it actually falls off when I pull the report later this year . There 's no law that good details must be removed after that time . It 's not the lack of use , but the closing of accounts that would impact credit history . In my opinion , avoiding ongoing debt is fine , but it 's ' fringe ' to do it so extremely that you find you have no credit history . Trying to rent a car or hotel room on a debit card is n't so simple . When I rent a $ 200 hotel room , a bit more than that is frozen to account for mini-bar , room service , etc. . You might have $ 2000 in your account , and between room , car , and gas purchases , see it all frozen when you only intend to spend $ 1500 . Last , try to get a mortgage with no credit history at all . It wo n't be easy . All the above issues can be avoided by finding one or two good credit cards with no fee and using them to fill the gas tank every few months . Doing this on purpose seems an unnecessary way of complicating one 's life . ( Admittedly , there are people who go to the other extreme , trying to get the most in rewards , and treating it like a game . No need for that , either . I enjoy the game but am not an advocate of it for those who wish to keep things as simple as possible . )
Does the company see itself expanding into new product lines or new territories ? What is the current predicted growth for the company 's earnings for the next 5 years ? These would generally be where I 'd look for growth in companies . In the case of Costco , there may be a perception of the company as being a " safe " company as the market capitalization for the stock is over $ 50 billion which is rather large . Thus , there is something to be said for Costco providing a dividend and may well weather the current market for an idea compared to holding funds in money markets that are paying nothing in some cases . There is also something to be said for looking at the industry and sector values that Costco is in where on <URL> , I find the P/E for the industry and sector to be 35.05 and 28.47 , respectively . Thus , Costco is n't as inflated as the other stocks in the same ballpark for another idea here .
There 's likely to be a period where you will own both houses . Although everyone wants " simultaneous closing " , it can be very rarely achieved . To achieve that , what is usually done is that the purchase of house B is contingent on the sale of the house A within a certain period of time . Then , you close both sales together with the proceeds from A going towards the purchase of B . It also means that you must stay in an hotel with all your stuff in a storage , because when you close the deal , A must already be empty ( because the buyer takes possession at closing ) and B will be empty ( because you also take possession at closing ) , leaving you in a limbo but without the need of paying two mortgages at once . As a side-note - I never understood the need in staging . IMHO its just another way for realtors to pocket money . When I was looking for an apartment not far from where you live , I saw both staged and non-staged , and in some cases even places where people were still living . I did n't see any difference re the asking price or the price I would offer . With a good inspection you can see straight through the " staging " so it does n't really fool anyone .
You can pay the full amount . There is no harm in paying off your credit card in full . Not paying your credit card minimum and on time is what will negatively affect your credit rating . I at times have paid ahead ( paid more than the current charges ) on my credit card if I know I had a large purchase in the near future .
end question
start question
Would there be issues with giving someone a gift out of a joint account if the total is over the annual limit per person ?
The one that signs the check is the one that 's giving the gift , and unless it is a spouse - gift splitting wo n't work . I suggest each of you to write a separate check . It would be even " cleaner " if it is not coming from joint accounts .
What you are probably interested in doing is a variant of the <URL> of paying down your debt . For an online calculator using a method like what you described , check out <URL> . Here 's the description from the site itself : Snowballing is all about paying your debts in the correct order . Generally speaking you should attempt to pay off the debts with the highest interest rate first . Some people , such as Dave Ramsey suggest you pay the card with the smallest balance first , that 's fine , and can help you feel you 're getting rid of the debt quicker , but it 's not the most efficient way . This calculator allows you to enter up to 20 different debts with their associated APRs , and the total amount you want to spend per month servicing your debts , and it 'll work out the order in which you should pay them together with the monthly payments . [ ... ] [ emphasis mine ] The tool appears to do what you are looking for . Note : The site is in the U.K. and the currency symbol shown is ' # ' , but if you ignore that and look at numbers only , it ought to calculate reasonable results for other countries .
As is so often the case , there is an asterisk next to that 2.5 % interest offer . It leads you to a footnote which says : Savings Interest Rate Offer of 2.5 % is available between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 on all net new deposits made between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 to a maximum of $ 250,000.00 per Account registration . You only earn 2.5 % interest on deposits made during those three months . Also , on the full offer info page , it says : During the Offer Period , the Bank will calculate Additional Interest on eligible net new deposits and : All interest payments are ineligible for the purposes of calculating Additional Interest and will not be calculated for the purposes of determining eligible daily balances . In other words , any interest paid into an Applicable Account , including Additional Interest , will not be treated as a new deposit for subsequently calculating Additional Interest payments . I could n't totally parse out all the details of the offer from their legalese , but what it sounds like is you will earn 2.5 % interest on money that you deposit into the account during those three months . Any interest you accrue during that time will not count as a deposit in this sense , and so will not earn 2.5 % compounded returns . The " During the Offer Period " qualification also makes it sound like this extra interest will only be paid during the three months ( presumably at a 2.5 % annualized rate , but I ca n't see where it actually says this ) . So essentially you are getting a one-time bonus for making deposits during a specific three-month period . The account does n't really earn 2.5 % interest in the normal sense . The long-term interest rate will be what it normally is for their savings accounts , which <URL> says is 1.05 % .
This is something you should decide as part of entering a partnership with someone . Ideally before you make the initial purchase you have a detailed contract written up . If you have already bought the house and someone is now ready to move out the easiest thing to do is sell the house . If that is not an option , you 'll have to decide on a plan together and then get it in writing .
Because 401k 's are also used by self employed . A person who has a schedule C profitable income can open a 401k and " match " in whatever ratio he wants , up to 25 % of the net profits or the limits you stated . This allows self-employed to defer more income taxes to the future . Why only self-employed ? Good question . Ask your congressman . My explanation would be that since they 're self-employed they 're in much more danger of not having income , especially later in life , if their business go south . Thus they need a bigger cushion than an average W2 employee who can just find another job .
Yes . I describe the Roth flavor as " <URL> . " For those with more money they wish to save this factor should be added to the mix . Of course you can save $ 16500 + 5000 ( in an IRA ) for $ 21500 total pretax if you wish ( and are within the limits . )
The list of the public companies is available on the regulatory agencies ' sites usually ( for example , in the US , you can look at SEC filings ) . Otherwise , you can check the stock exchange listings , which show all the public companies traded on that exchange . The shareholders , on the other hand , are normally not listed and not published . You 'll have to ask the company , and it probably wo n't tell you ( and wo n't even know them all as many shares are held in the " street name " of the broker ) .
This is definitely a scam . Do n't reply to the email at all . Do n't forward it or save it . Just mark it as spam/junk in your email client and delete it . These emails are known as <URL> or " dead customer scams " , and there are several variations on this theme . For example : Someone will email you claiming that they need you to stand in as the next-of-kin in order to access some money . They 'll probably ask you to send them various fees , e.g. for processing , bribes , taxes , etc. and in return , they promise you a cut of the funds . Obviously , there is no money . They 're trying to scam you out of money or personal information ( which they might use to impersonate you and get more money from you ) . They might tell you that 90 % of the funds transferred will go to you , while 10 % will go to the manager . They 'll send you a personal check , money order , or even a legitimate-looking cashier check , etc. from a foreign bank and ask you to send them a personal check to the manager ( or some " family member " of the manager ) . They cash your personal check , while the check/order they sent you bounces when it reaches the issuing bank . Not only do they have your money , they also have a check with your personal information , e.g. name , address , bank account numbers , etc. , on it . These are extremely common scams . The safest route is simply to completely ignore the email and delete it immediately . If you have already replied to the email but have n't sent any personal information , everything I said above still applies . Ignore all further emails from them and delete them immediately . Your email address may receive more spam in the future because by replying , they know that you either have a weak spam filter or are more likely to be fooled by such scams . Regardless , ignore all further emails , mark them as spam/junk in your email client if possible , and delete them immediately . If you did send any personal information in a reply , monitor all of your bank accounts , credit cards , credit reports , etc. and check for any fraudulent activity . Notify your bank , credit card company , etc. immediately if you see anything remotely suspicious . Also , never reply to an email like this again . If you have any doubts about an email , ask about it here before doing anything . DumbCoder made an <URL> too : Remember when somebody offers you free money , you should ask yourself what have you done to deserve it and that too from a person , about whom you know nothing about .
You should n't have a problem . I 've done this in the past ( in the US ) and I 've never had anyone at a bank complain . I recall seeing instructions that state to write cents in numeric form , e.g. 99/100 , instead of word form , but I think this is merely standard practice and not required per se . As a test , I paid a medical bill with a check written this way yesterday and asked the receptionist about it ; she recalled " a good number " of checks written that way over the years . I think it 's just a matter of personal preference . Although the experience of one office is n't a substitute for a large survey or some other scientific method , it 's anecdotal evidence that it probably wo n't cause an issue for you . Just make sure you 're handwriting is legible . If you do choose to alter the check , either <URL> . As a side note , make sure that whatever form you choose to use for the amount you write out , <URL> . The amount in the dollar box is n't crucial , since the bank will use the written amount to determine the check 's value . However , it might raise eyebrows if the amounts are different and may confuse the recipient of the check .
You can not . Even if your children actually have that money - your <URL> is to them , not to yourself . You can not gift away money they own for your own purposes . They have to want to gift it away , since it belongs to them . I doubt they do , or they should . Since you have to have their best interests in mind - you should n't allow them gift away such amounts even if they 're willing to . Doing otherwise will be a criminal act on your behalf ( embezzlement/breach of fiduciary duty ) . Do talk to an attorney of course , since I 'm not . But that is my understanding of things . If your kids do n't actually have the money , then they can obviously not gift it , so claiming that they did would be a tax fraud .
No , your accountant is completely incorrect . They have no relation to each other . Traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs share the same contribution limit , but this has nothing to do with 401 ( k ) s. Traditional 401 ( k ) s and Roth 401 ( k ) s share a separate contribution limit , but this has nothing to do with IRAs . The only thing that can limit your Roth IRA contribution in your case is if your income is hitting the income limit .
There is very little effect whatsoever of having a joint bank account -- positive or negative . Positive effects : It would be very easy to send your mother money ... she can just take it out of the account . If you passed away she could get the money without having to use the legal system ( or vice versa ) . This latter effect is why I have a bunch of joint accounts with my wife ... if either of us died I would n't want getting access to our money to be an additional hassle . Negative effects : She is able to access money in that account without your consen , which you have pointed out is not going to happen . The case I 'm thinking of would be something like a tax lien against her . A government agency might choose to pull money out of that joint account . That would be a downside for you . If we were discussing credit cards , a loan , or a line of credit , there would be a number of legal and credit-rating effects from joint ownership . Not so much with checking accounts .
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
The most common use of non-deductible Traditional IRA contributions these days , as JoeTaxpayer mentioned , is as an intermediate step in a " backdoor Roth IRA contribution " -- contribute to a Traditional IRA and then immediately convert it to a Roth IRA , which , if you had no previous pre-tax money in Traditional or other IRAs , is a tax-free process that achieves the same result as a regular Roth IRA contribution except that there are no income limits . ( This is something you should consider since you are unable to directly contribute to a Roth IRA due to income limits . ) Also , I want to note that your comparison is only true assuming you are holding tax-efficient assets , ones where you get taxed once at the end when you take it out . If you are holding tax-inefficient assets , like an interest-bearing CD or bond or a stock that regularly produces dividends , in a taxable account you would be taxed many times on that earnings , and that would be much worse than with the non-deductible Traditional IRA , where you would only be taxed once at the end when you take it out .
Not the US government , the US Congress , but yes - an attempt to slightly improve the horrible law . You may notice that <URL> . When you take that into account , the current level of $ 5500 is more or less <URL> . The original amounts were not automatically adjusted , and the Congress adjusted them " manually " through a separate legislation process each time . The last time ( in 2009 ) added the provision to automatically update the values , so from now on there 's no need in legislation to change the values , <URL> , in $ 500 increments , based on the CPI rates .
Think about the implications if the world worked as your question implies that it " should " : A $ 15 share of stock would return you ( at least ) $ 15 after 3 months , plus another $ 15 after 6 months , plus another after 9 and 12 months . This would have returned to you $ 60 over the year that you owned it ( plus you still own the share ) . Only then would the stock be worth buying ? Anything less than $ 60 would be too little to be worth bothering about for $ 15 ? Such a thing would indeed be worth buying , but you wo n't find golden-egg laying stocks like that on the stock market . Why ? Because other people would outbid your measly $ 15 in order to get this $ 60-a-year producing stock ( in fact , they would bid many hundreds of dollars ) . Since other people bid more , you ca n't find such a deal available . ( Of course , there are the points others have brought up : the earnings per share are yearly , not quarterly , unless otherwise noted . The earnings may not be sent to you at all , or only a small part , but you would gain much of their value because the company should be worth about that much more by keeping the earnings . )
If you know what bank your parents used , call them and ask . ( Or you might have to go there and show id ) . Chances are if such an account exists , it would be at the same bank . You can also search for unclaimed property . <URL> .
Stock price is an indicator about the health of the company . Increased profits ( for example ) will drive the stock price up ; excessive debt ( for example ) will drive it down . The stock price has a profound effect on the company overall : for example , a declining share price will make it hard to secure credit , attract further investors , build partnerships , etc. . Also , employees are often holding options or in a stock purchase plan , so a declining share price can severely dampen morale . In an extreme case , if share prices plummet too far , the company can be pressured to reverse-split the shares , and ( eventually ) take the company private . This recently happened to Playboy .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
Shares often come associated with a set of rights , such as ability to vote in the outcome of the company . Some shares do not have this right , however . With your ability to vote in the outcome of the company , you could help dictate that the company paid dividends at a point in time . Or many other varieties of outcomes . Also , if there were any liquidity events due to demand of the shares , this is typically at a much higher price than the shares are now when the company is private/closely held .
end question
start question
GAAP or non-GAAP numbers in nasdaq.com ?
You 're interpreting things correctly , at least at a high level . Those numbers come from the 10Q filing and investor summary from Microsoft , but are provided to NASDAQ by Zacks Investment Research , as noted on the main page you linked to . That 's a big investment data firm . I 'm not sure why they reported non-GAAP Microsoft numbers and not , say , AAPL numbers ; it 's possible they felt the non-GAAP numbers reflect things better ( or have in the past ) for some material reason , or it 's possible they made a typo , though the last three quarters at least all used non-GAAP numbers for MSFT . MSFT indicates that the difference in GAAP and non-GAAP revenue is primarily deferred revenue ( from Windows and Halo ) . I did confirm that the SEC filing for MSFT does include the GAAP number , not the non-GAAP number ( as you 'd expect ) . I will also note that it looks like the 10Q is not the only source of information . Look at ORCL for example : they had in the March 2016 report ( period ending 2/29/16 ) revenues of .50 / share GAAP / .64 / share non-GAAP . But the NASDAQ page indicates .59 / share for that quarter . My suspicion is that the investment data firm ( Zack 's ) does additional work and includes certain numbers they feel belong in the revenue stream but are not in the GAAP numbers . Perhaps MS ( and Oracle ) have more of those - such as deferred software revenues ( AAPL has relatively little of that , as most of their profit is hardware ) .
Nothing happens . A bank is a business ; your relationship with the bank does n't change because your visa or immigration status changes . Money held in the account is still held in the account . Interest paid on the account is still taxable . And so on . If the account is inactive long enough , abandoned account rules may apply , but that still has nothing to do with your status .
They are limiting your total investment in Notes to no more than 10 % of your net worth . Step 1 : determine your net worth Step 2 : Divide this number by 10 The answer is the maximum amount you can put at risk through Lendingclub . The issue is that if you lose all the investment you will not be bankrupted . If it was the other way you could invest all your net worth in Lendingclub by splitting it among 10 + notes . Your net worth is " determined exclusive of the value of your home , home furnishings and automobile . " Which means do n't include the house and the stuff in the house . That means your net worth is the money in the bank ; plus the money invested in stocks , ETFs , and mutual funds ; plus retirement accounts ( 401K , IRA ) ; minus loans ( student , credit cards ) .
I found <URL> at CNN Money , that lists 5 viable alternatives to Paypal , namely : Digital River 2checkout . com Alertpay TrialPay E-Junkie I would suggest looking for unbiased sources like CNN rather than searching for alternatives and happening upon the merchant 's sites themselves . Hope this helps !
Roth distributions will not count against your income , since contributions have already been taxed , and earnings are not taxable . If you have $ 1,000,000 in your Roth , you can withdraw it all as a lump sum , tax-free ( assuming penalty-free withdrawal ) . Traditional 401K/IRA distributions count as income . You asked what bracket these distributions are " applied against " , but this is not really the way the tax system works . Your distribution income gets combined with your other forms of income , minus credits , deductions , etc. to come up with your Taxable Income , which is used to determine how much tax you pay . That 's a highly simplified explanation -- I think a full discussion of the federal tax system might be too much for this question , but reading up on <URL> should help . The question of the benefits of Roth vs. Traditional is also a very complex question/calculation , and involves a slew of inputs , many of which are purely speculative ( e.g. expected federal tax rate in 30 years ) .
The answer is just close your eyes and ignore it ( in your words ) . I 'm right there with you , the amount of detail that I track in my personal finances would be called obscene by some people . But as you look at these features in any accounting application , you need to ask the question " What does this information represent ? " In the case of your bank and credit card accounts , the reconciliation marker represents that you have received documentation from the issuing institution which you have verified against your accounts . Marking them off confirms that you have reviewed the information , and that you checked for errors . These markers exist on all transactions , whichever end of the splits you are looking at . When reviewing the Expense side of the transaction , it might make less sense to see these reconciliation markers , because as you stated , nobody receives documentation related to their expenses . However , if you itemized your expenses and kept a separate log of certain transactions ( like a notebook where you track gasoline and/or mileage on your car ) , it might be useful to ' reconcile ' your records once a month . Checking off individual transactions , and verifying a new ' balance ' in terms of gas consumed or miles driven , would allow you to identify any inconsistencies in your records . Not everyone would find such an activity useful , thus the reconciliation markers are present everywhere but required nowhere .
I believe that article provides some good reasons , though it may be a bit light on technical details and there are likely other reasons a company would do it . Apparently much of its cash is held overseas , which would pare down the cash pile if brought back into the U.S. With their high credit rating ( and probably due to current market conditions ) a bond sale would be relatively cheap As long as they do not take on too much debt , it does not matter that debt is used to finance a buyback and/or dividend payments . The shares are bought back -- bringing down the number of shares on the market , thus boosting share price -- and/or shareholders are payed their dividends . So , if they can finance for less then they would lose to taxes by bringing the money home and they do not take on too much debt , this will likely work just fine and increase share holder value . Hopefully , someone else can provide some other reasonable scenarios . The bottom line is that it does not matter how they finance the share buybacks and/or dividend payments as long as they do not shoot themselves in the foot while doing it .
Yes , of course there are . In Mexico they 're called caja popular and one of the largest is <URL> . There are also microfinance institutions ( like <URL> ) but Mexico is <URL> in the world ( well over 100 % ) . For more information on lenders ( and ratings plus a really cool APR calculation tool ) visit <URL> .
I did just what you suggest . The card company honored the charge , they told me the temporary number was solely for the purpose of assigning a number to one vendor/business . So even though I set a low limit , the number was still active and the card company paid the request . Small price to pay , but it did n't go as I wished . For this purpose , I 've used Visa/Mastercard gift cards . They are often on sale for face value and no additional fees .
Employers ' match does n't count towards your annual limit ( the $ 17500 this year ) , but it does count towards the overall limit ( $ 51K this year ) . For details on these limits see <URL> .
I can say that I got X dollars from an account like " Income : Benefits " ... but where do I credit that money to ? " Expenses : Groceries " Yes does n't feel right , since I never actually spent that money on food , You did , did n't you ? You got food . I 'm guessing there 's an established convention for this already ? Doubt it . Established conventions in accounting are for businesses , and more specifically - public companies . So you can find a GAAP , or IFRS guidelines on how to book benefits ( hint : salary expense ) , but it is not something you may find useful in your own household accounting . Do what is most convenient for you . Since it is a double-booking system - you need to have an account on the other side . does n't feel right ? Add or or whatever . When you do your expense and cash-flow reports - you can exclude both the income and the expense benefits accounts if you track them separately , so that they do n't affect your tracking of the " real " expenses .
Mortgages are <URL> recourse loans everywhere in Canada other than Alberta and Saskatchewan . Note that you must have a mortgage without mortgage default insurance , otherwise it is still a recourse loan . You are required to get mortgage default insurance when taking out the mortgage , unless you put down at least 20 % on your downpayment . You can subsequently remove the insurance once you pass that threshold . These requirements make it much less likely , though obviously not impossible , for your mortgage to be underwater . Note that walking away from your no-recourse mortgage will still result in a hit on your credit rating , at least in Alberta . This may make it harder or impossible to get loans for the next few years . I believe you live in BC , based on your profile . Typically , all mortgages in BC would be recourse mortgages .
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
From strictly a gross revenue point of view , the parking spot is going to yield a higher rate ( 5.4 % ) versus a 3 % savings account , assuming you have it rented all year . Your break-even point ( not considering other expenses ) is 7-8 months of rent per year . So , what are things to consider ? Here 's a few to start with . Does location give the parking spot a potential for appreciation of rent or value as economic conditions change ? What is demand like ? Will you be able to rent it consistently ? My neighbor rents a garage to college faculty on a semester basis , and it is often difficult to get tenants in the summertime . What are the carrying costs associated with the spot ? Insurance , property tax , business district fees , etc. . What are your liquidity requirements ? Conveying real property is more time consuming than liquidating savings . This relates to the location too : you can sell a spot in a business district or high-density neighborhood quickly . Does anything about the location limit downside risk ? e.g. stable generators of parking demand like a commuter train station , government office , large apartment , etc. . The parking spot is a nice investment in that you get a decent return , and the potential for appreciation . The savings account/CD will give you a fixed return with no risk . To support your decision , make sure you understand all of the costs and understand all of the downside risk . If you 're 50 and this is alot of money to you , be conservative . If you 're 25 and have a good job , you can afford to chase the yield .
I would suggest you pay quarterly . Or , if you prefer , do the extra withholding . Do n't wait until the end of the year . My experience is that of having a day job with freelance work on the side . I 've spent a few years just freelancing , and I paid quarterly as requested to avoid the penalties . Now that I have a good day job again , my freelancing is just a small part of my income , and so I end up with a net return and no longer have to pay quarterly . You should n't wait until the end of the year to pay . This is assuming your wife is bringing in a decent income . The only scenario where you would want to wait is if her income is only a small amount ( such as my wife 's plans for an Etsy store ) . To the IRS , it does n't really make a difference whether you withhold extra or pay quarterly . Of those two choices , my preference is to pay quarterly - it 's easy to set up calendar reminders on the quarterly payment dates , which are always the same . I did the same as bstpierre when estimating my payments : just take last year 's tax ( for the business ) and divide by 4 ( adjusting for any obvious situational differences ) . That 's usually close enough . Paying quarterly instead of via withholding means you get to hold on to your money ( on average ) for 6 weeks longer . Granted , that does n't mean much with today 's interest rates , but it 's something . You may prefer the simpler accounting for withholding , though - you can " set and forget " .
Interest means that the money on the accounts belongs to you , regardless of who 's name is the account titled to . For example , if you give money to someone ( non-US person , say , trying to avoid FBAR requirements ) and that person puts it in his account but will give you money whenever you ask for it - you have interest in that account . This is in order for people not to avoid FBAR requirements by putting their money into someone 's else accounts . Signature Authority means that although the account is not in your name , and the money on it is not your money - you have the right to access that account and perform operations on it . This usually happens when people are employees of a company and have signature authority over the company 's accounts , but it is also frequently the case for people having signature authority over the accounts that belong to their family members ( for example - your parents are not US persons , but they gave you access to their account because they do n't know how to work with the bank and you do - you have signature authority over the account ) . If you have your own account - you have both interest in it and signature authority over it .
These do exist in the US ; I 've personally used them in the past through a Citi credit card . Wikipedia has some info that seems to fit : <URL> A controlled payment number ( a trademark of Orbiscom [ 1 ] ) , also called by generic names substitute credit card number , one-time use credit card , disposable credit card and virtual credit card number ) is an alias for a credit card number . It is generated through the use of either a Web application or a specialized client program , interacting with the card issuer 's computer , and is linked to the actual credit card number . Typically , a controlled payment number has a limit , and an expiration date between two and twelve months from the issue date , both chosen by the account owner , and while it can usually be set up to allow multiple transactions , it can only be used with a single merchant . This " alias " number is indistinguishable from an ordinary credit card number , and the user 's actual credit card number is never revealed to the merchant . Consequently if it is compromised a fraudulent user can usually not steal money , and the limit reduces how much a dishonest merchant can steal . The system was developed by Orbiscom , a Dublin-based payment processing company which was acquired by Mastercard in January 2009 and in parallel by Cyota Inc. [ 2 ] It is used by a number of credit card issuers . In the USA , these include Bank of America ( which inherited its system , " ShopSafe , " when it acquired MBNA ) , Citibank ( " Virtual Account Numbers " ) , Discover Card 's Secure Online Account Numbers and NetSpend 's " virtual accounts " . Examples from other countries are MBnet , which can create a payment number linked to virtually any credit or debit card emitted in Portugal .
No , in your situation it is not possible . Mostly , only three types of accounts are available to individuals : Savings ( Resident ) : You need to be in India to get this account . For identification , either only passport ( Indian passport ; or foreign passport with Indian work visa ) is required , or few other types of address and identity proofs are must . Maybe a foreigner living in India can get this , as anybody who lives in India for minimum 182 days in a financial year , is Indian resident for tax purposes . Obviously the ones on tourist visa can not stay that long , unless they are of Indian origin . NRE ( Non Resident ) . Any Indian citizen who is NOT in India for minimum 182 days in a year , is eligible to open this account . If he moves out , he is supposed to convert resident account to this or NRO . Money can come in only from outside India . You can spend this money freely in India . As of today there is no tax , and you can take the money out of India without any issues . NRO ( Non Resident ) same as above , except money can only come from inside India , there is a 30 % tax , and upper ceiling for repatriation of money . So , a complete foreigner can open account in India , only if he is working in India , a type of Savings account , and that account too will be linked to his resident status . If he leaves work , he needs to close this account . Edit : There are business accounts , and current accounts , but those are available only to businesses . Further read at <URL>
If you have your paycheck deposited to a single account , include the amount you 're saving in your normal income budget and then make sure your savings goal at the bottom is funded . ( The Savings Goal is a discrete feature in Mint . Use it . ) Record the transaction on either end as a transfer : it wo n't show up in any of your budget lines . If you have part of your paycheck deposited to a separate savings account , and Mint sees the transaction with your normal income , do the same basic setup ( except you wo n't see the transfer ) . If a portion of your paycheck is sent somewhere like a retirement plan or 401 ( k ) such that Mint does n't record a transaction for the income , exclude the amount from your income budgets and check the option on your goal that says it 's being funded independently ( it 'll appear greyed out on the bottom . )
Current typically refers to a time line shorter than 12 months . At least that 's what it means in the US , I 'd imagine the same applies in the UK . A current asset is something like cash , or a very short term security ; a 9 month CD for example . A current liability can be something like a payable to a vendor . There is also a situation where you have the current portion of a long-term liability . That could be the amount of a long term loan that 's due in the next 12 months .
end question
start question
Are ' no interest if paid in in x months ' credit cards worth it ?
You ca n't buy it outright . You ca n't take the time to save up . if the remaining choice is between a card that charges from day one , and a card with this kind of grace period , the grace card is the better choice . Plan wisely , pay it in full before that rate starts to be charged . One additional note - There are two groups of people , the pay-in-fullers and the balance carriers . I believe that one should pay in full , and never pay interest . A zero rate offer can be used by the balance carrier to feel great for 12 months , but have even more debt after the rate kicks in . As a pay-in-full user , I 've used the zero rate to throw $ 20K at the 5.25 % mortgage , and planned a refinance to 3.5 % just as it ended . a $ 750 savings ( after the tax effect ) well worth the bit of effort . The fees should be in the fine print . My zero rate had a transfer fee , $ 50 max , which was nothing in comparison to the savings .
Basically , yes . That does n't mean that it 's easy to do . The government provides a dividend tax credit since an individual takes on more risk to invest in dividend-paying corporations rather than trading their human capital for an income . Thus , for the most part , $ 1 earned from dividends is taxed much less than $ 1 earned from income or interest . Finally , note that foreign dividends are not eligible for the dividend tax credit , and are not preferentially taxed .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
In theory , yes . In practice : Most cards charge a 3 % or so fee on balance transfer . If you slip and let you balance go past " free balance transfer " time limits , you 'll quickly pay more in interest than you gained from keeping free credit around . You 'll need an endless supply of free transfer cards to keep shuffling it around - what if one day it so happens that none is offering it right now and your current free transfer is about to expire ? Again , you 'll pay a lot . Doing this ( opening new accounts frequently ) may hurt your credit rating , which may hurt your chance of getting new deals , which would lead to problems described above . So it can be gamed , but the odds are not on your side :)
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
Another factor to consider , beyond the fact that growth and volatility go together , is that the times when many people will need to liquidate their investments will correlate with the times that many other people need to liquidate their investments , and such correlation will push down the immediate value of those investments . While certificates of deposit have penalties for early withdrawal , one can establish up front what the worst-case penalty would be for cashing it in at the most inopportune time . By contrast , stocks offer no such assurance . Stocks sometimes have weird downward spikes that may be short-lived , but if life circumstances force one to liquidate stocks during such a downward spike the " penalty " can be much larger than on a CD .
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
If you read a bit on this site you will see warnings about closing accounts . Yes , what you propose to do can work , as long as your timing is right , and you watch your score . You get a minor ding for pulls to your report ( credit inquiries ) , for high utilization , and for low average account age . For your goals , you should only get cards that have no annual fee , and let them accumulate . At some point , you will have enough available credit that any balance wont cause high utilization , and canceling a card wont kill your average age .
What you 're asking for is a short-term , large return investment . When looking for big returns in a short period of time , risk is inevitable . The more risk you are willing to assume , the higher your potential returns . Of course , the flip is is that the higher your risk , the higher the potential to lose all your money ! Since this is an exercise for school ( and not real money and not your life savings ) your best bet is to " go big or go home " . You can safely assume 100 % risk ! Do n't look for value stocks , dividend stocks , or anything that pays a steady return over a long period of time . Instead , look for something risky that has the potential of going up , up , up in the next few months . Are you allowed to trade options in your fake portfolio ? Options can have big risk and big reward potential . Penny stocks are super volatile , too . Do some research , look for a fad . In other words , you will most likely lose it all . But you get a little lucky , you could win this thing outright by making some risky investments . A 5 % chance of winning $ 3000 vs 95 % of going broke may be pretty good odds if everyone else is value investing for just a few months . You will need to get lucky . Go big or go home !
You can do this through a journal entry in Quickbooks . It can all be entered as one entry , there 's no need to do separate ones for each bill . The journal entry should debit Accounts Payable and credit your equity account . In the line for Accounts Payable , make sure to choose your name in the ' Name ' column . This , in effect , enters a credit to your account , which will offset the bills that were shown there previously . The last step is to apply those credits to the bills . Even though they offset each other , your name would still show up in any Payables reports and in the Pay Bills window . To do this , open the Pay Bills window and select one of the bills owed to you . There should be an option to choose ' Apply Credits ' or something similar ( depends on which version of Quickbooks you are running ) . Choose that option , and apply credits in the amount of the bill , so that it zeroes out . Do the same for all of the other bills . Once they are all checked off , click the button to Pay Bills . This wo n't actually ' pay ' anything , but will instead just apply the credits to the bills as indicated .
There are a few factors at play here . Depending on the bank that has offered you the card there are different types of overdraft protection that may have been set up . Typically , if they attempt to run the card with no money , if one of these is in play , you will be spared any overdraft fees by the transaction charging to a designated overdraft account , usually savings , or by the transaction failing due to insufficient funds . If you know the transaction went through , and you know there were not enough funds in the account to cover the transactions , then you have a few options . If you have overdraft protection that auto charges insufficient funds charges to a separate account , then you have nothing to worry about . If you do not , most banks offer a grace period where you have until the end of the day to zero out your account , that is to say pay the overdraft amount and bring your balance to at least $ 0 . If this is a charge that occurred in the past , and you have already been charged an overdraft fee , there may still be hope . I can not speak for all banks , but I know that Chase Bank offers a once per year overdraft forgiveness , where they will get rid of the charges if you agree to bring the account out of the negative . There is a chance other banks will do the same if you call their customer service .
Credit cards come with an interest-free grace period of ~ 25 days as long as you pay your balance in full every month . In other words , charges made in January will appear on a bill cut on Jan 31 , and due around the 25th of February . If paid in full by 2/25 , there 's no interest . It is a very good idea to get in the habit of paying off your entire balance every month for this very reason . Do n't buy anything you ca n't afford to pay for at the end of the month when the credit card bill is due . You 'll avoid interest charges , build good habits , and improve your credit score . By just paying the minimum amount due , you 'll be charged interest from the moment of purchase , and the grace period on new purchases goes away . Credit card companies make the minimum amount due relatively low as a way to encourage you to pay more and more in interest every month . Do n't fall for it ! Look for a credit card with zero annual fee . Sure , rewards are nice , but it 's more important to avoid fees , keep the interest rate low , and get in the habit of paying in full every month , in which case the interest rate wo n't matter . Your bank or credit union is a good place to start looking .
Interest means that the money on the accounts belongs to you , regardless of who 's name is the account titled to . For example , if you give money to someone ( non-US person , say , trying to avoid FBAR requirements ) and that person puts it in his account but will give you money whenever you ask for it - you have interest in that account . This is in order for people not to avoid FBAR requirements by putting their money into someone 's else accounts . Signature Authority means that although the account is not in your name , and the money on it is not your money - you have the right to access that account and perform operations on it . This usually happens when people are employees of a company and have signature authority over the company 's accounts , but it is also frequently the case for people having signature authority over the accounts that belong to their family members ( for example - your parents are not US persons , but they gave you access to their account because they do n't know how to work with the bank and you do - you have signature authority over the account ) . If you have your own account - you have both interest in it and signature authority over it .
It varies . You may have asked a bank that , by their own policy , requires the ID card . But , apparently , there should be banks that permit a passport to be used instead of the HK ID card . Refer to <URL> : [ ... ] Opening a Bank Account Some retail banks [ in Hong Kong ] provide account opening forms which can be downloaded from their websites . Requirements and criteria for opening an account vary from bank to bank . However , the standard documents needed for a savings or current account are : Hong Kong Identification Card or passport proof of Hong Kong address or address in home country application form Note : It is not necessary to be a resident in Hong Kong to open a bank account . [ emphasis mine ] [ ... ]
Index funds can be a very good way to get into the stock market . It 's a lot easier , and cheaper , to buy a few shares of an index fund than it is to buy a few shares in hundreds of different companies . An index fund will also generally charge lower fees than an " actively managed " mutual fund , where the manager tries to pick which stocks to invest for you . While the actively managed fund might give you better returns ( by investing in good companies instead of every company in the index ) that does n't always work out , and the fees can eat away at that advantage . ( Stocks , on average , are expected to yield an annual return of 4 % , after inflation . Consider that when you see an expense ratio of 1 % . Index funds should charge you more like 0.1 % -0.3 % or so , possibly more if it 's an exotic index . ) The question is what sort of index you 're going to invest in . The Standard and Poor 's 500 ( S&amp;P 500 ) is a major index , and if you see someone talking about the performance of a mutual fund or investment strategy , there 's a good chance they 'll compare it to the return of the S&amp;P 500 . Moreover , there are a variety of index funds and exchange-traded funds that offer very good expense ratios ( e.g. Vanguard 's ETF charges ~ 0.06 % , very cheap ! ) . You can also find some funds which try to get you exposure to the entire world stock market , e.g. Vanguard Total World Stock ETF , NYSE : VT ) . An index fund is probably the ideal way to start a portfolio - easy , and you get a lot of diversification . Later , when you have more money available , you can consider adding individual stocks or investing in specific sectors or regions . ( Someone else suggested Brazil/Russia/Indo-China , or BRICs - having some money invested in that region is n't necessarily a bad idea , but putting all or most of your money in that region would be . If BRICs are more of your portfolio then they are of the world economy , your portfolio is n't balanced . Also , while these countries are experiencing a lot of economic growth , that does n't always mean that the companies that you own stock in are the ones which will benefit ; small businesses and new ventures may make up a significant part of that growth . ) Bond funds are useful when you want to diversify your portfolio so that it 's not all stocks . There 's a bunch of portfolio theory built around asset allocation strategies . The idea is that you should try to maintain a target mix of assets , whatever the market 's doing . The basic simplified guideline about investing for retirement says that your portfolio should have ( your age ) % in bonds ( e.g. a 30-year-old should have 30 % in bonds , a 50-year-old 50 % . ) This helps maintain a balance between the volatility of your portfolio ( the stock market 's ups and downs ) and the rate of return : you want to earn money when you can , but when it 's almost time to spend it , you do n't want a sudden stock market crash to wipe it all out . Bonds help preserve that value ( but do n't have as nice of a return ) . The other idea behind asset allocation is that if the market changes - e.g. your stocks go up a lot while your bonds stagnate - you rebalance and buy more bonds . If the stock market subsequently crashes , you move some of your bond money back into stocks . This basically means that you buy low and sell high , just by maintaining your asset allocation . This is generally more reliable than trying to " time the market " and move into an asset class before it goes up ( and move out before it goes down ) . Market-timing is just speculation . You get better returns if you guess right , but you get worse returns if you guess wrong . Commodity funds are useful as another way to diversify your portfolio , and can serve as a little bit of protection in case of crisis or inflation . You can buy gold , silver , platinum and palladium ETFs on the stock exchanges . Having a small amount of money in these funds is n't a bad idea , but commodities can be subject to violent price swings ! Moreover , a bar of gold does n't really earn any money ( and owning a share of a precious-metals ETF will incur administrative , storage , and insurance costs to boot ) . A well-run business does earn money . Assuming you 're saving for the long haul ( retirement or something several decades off ) my suggestion for you would be to start by investing most of your money * in index funds to match the total world stock market ( with something like the aforementioned NYSE : VT , for instance ) , a small portion in bonds , and a smaller portion in commodity funds . ( For all the negative stuff I 've said about market-timing , it 's pretty clear that the bond market is very expensive right now , and so are the commodities ! ) Then , as you do additional research and determine what sort investments are right for you , add new investment money in the places that you think are appropriate - stock funds , bond funds , commodity funds , individual stocks , sector-specific funds , actively managed mutual funds , et cetera - and try to maintain a reasonable asset allocation . Have fun . * ( M
Should I allow the credit cards to be paid out of escrow in one lump sum ? Or should I take the cash and pay the cards down over a few months . I have heard that it is better for your credit score to pay them down over time . Will it make much of a difference ? Will the money you save by increasing your credit score ( assuming this statement is true ) be larger than by eliminating the interest payments for the credit card payments over " a few months " ( 13 % APR at $ 24,000 is $ 3120 a year in interest ; $ 260 a month , so if " a few months " is three , that would cost over $ 700 - note that as you pay more principal the overall amount of interest decreases , so the " a year " in interest could go down depending on the principal payments ) . Also , on a related note regarding credit score , it does n't look good to have more than a third of a credit line available balance exceeded ( see number 2 here : <URL> ) .
I would pile up your extra cash to use when you wo n't be able to work as much . This will prevent you from adding debt during that time . Because you 'll need the money in the short term ( less than 5 years ) , your best place to put it is a savings account earning a dismal amount of interest .
I believe it 's just to limit the less well-off from acquiring one . If your credit history and income do not support a $ 15,000 credit limit , then do n't even think about applying for an Altitude Black card . If they do , then do n't bother with a student card . It 's primarily about market segmentation by wealth or income .
The benefit is that you can reduce the interest you pay to zero for the specified time . Every penny goes toward reducing your balance . Is n't that nice ? :) However , you must make absolutely sure that you make the payments on time ! Likely your interest rate will jump tremendously if you miss . Then you 'll be hating life . Regarding balance transfer fees that Benjamin mentions : one I heard recently was 3 % of the transfer , or $ 5 , whichever is greater . If there is one , it will be something like that . Zero-percent balance transfers can help you reduce your debt if you keep on top of them . They are secretly waiting for you to screw up so that they can make money off of you , but you can win if you 're careful .
There are two issues here : arithmetic and psychology . Scenario 1 : You are presently paying an extra $ 500 per month on your student loan , above the minimum payments . Your credit card company offers a $ 4000 cash advance at 0 % for 8 months . So you take the cash advance , pay it toward the student loan , and then instead of paying the extra $ 500 per month toward the student loan you use that $ 500 for 8 months to repay the cash advance . Net result : You pay 0 % interest on the loan , and save roughly 8 months times $ 4000 times the interest on the student loan divided by two . ( I say " divided by two " because it 's not the difference between $ 4000 and zero , but between $ 4000 and the $ 500 you would have been paying off each month . ) Clearly you are better off . If you are NOT presently paying an extra $ 500 on the student loan -- or even if you are but it is a struggle to come up with the money -- then the question becomes , can you reasonably expect to be able to pay off the credit card before the grace period runs out ? Interest rates on credit cards are normally much higher than interest rates on student loans . If you get the cash advance and then ca n't repay it , after 8 months you are paying a very steep interest rate , and anything you saved on the student loan will quickly be lost . What I mean by " psychological " is that you have to have the discipline to really repay the credit card within the grace period . If you 're not very confidant that you can do that , this plan could go bad very quickly . Personally , I 've thought about doing things like this many times -- cash advances against credit cards , home equity loans , etc , all give low-interest money that could be used to pay off a higher-interest debt . But it 's easy to get into trouble doing things like this . It 's easy to say to yourself , Well , I do n't need to put ALL the money toward that other debt , I could keep a thousand or so to buy that big screen TV I really need . Or to fail to pay back the low-interest loan on schedule because other things keep coming up that you spend your money on instead , whether frivolous luxuries or true emergencies . And there 's always the possibility that something will happen to mess up your finances , from a big car repair bill to losing your job . You do n't want to paint yourself into a corner . Finally , maxing out your credit cards hurts your credit rating . The formulas are secret , but I understand that if you use more than half your available credit , that 's a minus . How much it hurts you depends on lots of factors .
end question
start question
Why is " cheque cashing " a legitimate business ?
This answer is based on my understanding of the US banking system . We have check cashing businesses here too , which are just like what you describe , except for the spelling :-) Let 's consider what " cash it for free at the bank " really means , and why it might not be an option for everyone . One key issue is " which bank ? " As an example , suppose that I have an account at ABC Bank . I take out my checkbook for that account and write you a check for $ 500 . ( Terminology : In this case , I am the drawer or maker of the check , ABC Bank is the drawee bank , and you , user54609 , are the payee . Disclaimer : " You " here is meant as a generic pronoun and I do not mean to insinuate that anything here actually applies to you personally . ) There are two common things you might do with the check : If you have an account at some bank , say XYZ Bank , you might take the check to XYZ Bank and deposit it in your account . ( You might be able to do this through an ATM , mobile app , or by mail , instead of in person . ) XYZ Bank does not have a way to verify with certainty that the check is valid ( e.g. they do n't know what my signature looks like , nor whether I actually have $ 500 in my account at ABC ) , so they send it to ABC Bank , which verifies the check and transfers $ 500 to XYZ . ( This is usually done through a central clearinghouse , such as the Federal Reserve in the US , and in some cases an image of the check may be sent electronically , instead of the physical check . ) This process takes some time , so XYZ may not make the $ 500 available to you right away - there may be a hold period before you can withdraw that $ 500 from your account . You could take the check to ABC Bank , in person . They will verify on the spot that the check is valid and that you are in fact user54609 . If everything looks good , they will hand you $ 500 in cash ( perhaps subtracting a fee of a few dollars ) . Now we can see some possible problems with each of these approaches . For 1 : Maybe you do n't have a bank account at all . There are many possible reasons : You do n't have enough money to meet the minimum balance that a bank account would require . You used to have an account , but you overdrew or otherwise misused an account , so the bank closed it . They then entered you in a registry such as ChexSystems which ensures that other banks know about this , and so no other bank will open a new account for you . You immigrated to the country illegally and can not get the documents ( driver 's license , social security number , etc ) that a bank normally requires to open an account . You simply do n't like the idea of keeping your money in a bank . Maybe you do have an account at XYZ Bank , but it 's in another town . You need the cash today , so you ca n't use mail or a mobile app , and third-party ATMs usually do n't accept deposits . Maybe you need to spend the money today , and XYZ Bank would place a hold . For 2 : ABC Bank may not have a branch you can conveniently visit . Maybe the nearest one is a long way away , in another city or across the country . Or maybe ABC is an online bank with no physical branches at all . Maybe it 's in the same city , but you do n't have transportation to get you there . Or maybe it 's simply less convenient than the check-cashing business on the corner . Maybe it is after usual banking hours , or a weekend , and ABC Bank is closed , but you need cash now . In any of these situations , " cash it at the bank " might not be a viable option , and so you might reasonably turn to a check cashing business instead . As you say , you will pay a much higher fee there , but maybe it is worth it to you , or you just do n't have any choice . Another possibility , of course , is that you are poorly educated about the banking system , and you do n't really understand that 1 and 2 are options , or how to go about them . But there 's this storefront on the corner that says " Check Cashing " , so this seems like a low-stress , uncomplicated way to exchange this piece of paper for money . As such , there certainly are people who legitimately might want to cash a valid check at a check-cashing business . Check cashing business do of course take some risk of fraud , since they ca n't necessarily verify the check . There are sometimes steps they can take to minimize this risk . Sometimes they can call ABC Bank and check that I have sufficient money in my account . Maybe they 'll only accept certain kinds of checks , such as payroll checks from well-known companies for which you can produce a matching pay stub . And they can demand identification from you ( perhaps allowing more flexible options than a bank ) , which helps ensure that you are the payee , and would make you easier to track down if you did commit fraud . But they will probably lose some money this way , so they will have to make their fees high enough to cover those losses .
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
Self employment is typically harder to qualify with than W2 income . In general the bank is going to want 2 years of tax returns . You will be asked to sign a 4506-T that allows the bank to get the records directly from the IRS . Self employment income will be averaged across the 2 years , I do n't think a 20 % drop in profits is large enough to cause concern but it might . I would plan on being able borrow against the lowest year just in case . If you get a W2 job you will be able to count the income immediately assuming it is not a temporary position . The bank will ask for the offer letter . If you have decent credit and 20 % down , you should be able to get a mortgage either way . A W2 is typically less paperwork and you would get to claim your current income assuming that is higher than your past income .
Is this just appealing to potential sellers ' need for instant gratification , or am I missing something here ? Timing matters for some people . If you are moving cross country , it 's important to be able to sell your house quickly if you want to sell . This can also matter if the seller is interested in buying another home . If their existing home takes three months to sell and they have already picked a home they want , it can make the timing of funds transfers quite inconvenient - often people need to sell their existing home in order to make a down payment on a future home .
I think you 're right that these sites look so unprofessional that they are n't likely to be legitimate . However , even a very legitimate-looking site might be a fake designed to separate you from your money . There is an entire underground industry devoted to this kind of fakery and some of them are adept at what they do . So how can you tell ? One place that you can consult is <URL> online service . This might be the first of many checks you should undertake . Who is FINRA , you might ask ? " The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) is the largest independent regulator for all securities firms doing business in the United States . " See <URL> . My unprofessional guess is , even if a firm 's line of business is to broker deals in private company shares , that if they 're located in the U.S. or else dealing in U.S. securities then they 'd still need to be registered with FINRA -- note the " all securities firms " above . I was able to search BrokerCheck and find SecondMarket ( the firm @duffbeer703 mentioned ) listed as " Active " in the FINRA database . The entry also provides some information about the firm . For instance , SecondMarket appears to also be registered with the <URL> . You should also note that SecondMarket links back to these authorities ( refer to the footer of <URL> ) : " Member FINRA | MSRB | SIPC . Registered with the SEC as an alternative trading system for trading in private company shares . SEC 606 Info [ ... ] " Any legitimate broker would want you to look them up with the authorities if you 're unsure about their legitimacy . However , to undertake any such kind of deal , I 'd still suggest more due diligence . An accredited investor with serious money to invest ought to , if they are not already experts themselves on these things , hire a professional who is expert to provide counsel , help navigate the system , and avoid the frauds .
I think much of that info is hidden behind pay-walls . Here is one site I 've found . <URL> Another that is for non-profits only is guidestar . <URL>
A Home Equity Line Of Credit ( HELOC ) is simply a special type of secured credit . Secured credit is credit provided to you , where the lender has some rights to an associated asset in the event that you default . In the case of a HELOC , much like a mortgage , if you default on the payment terms , the bank may be legally able to foreclose on your house , sell the foreclosed property , and take the money owed to it from the proceeds , leaving you with any net remainder . Whether your friend will be able to have a bank offer her credit secured against her business assets would depend on a variety of factors . She should talk to her bank to see whether it would be possible in her case .
I think you 're making a mistake . If you still want to make this mistake ( I 'll explain later why I think its a mistake ) , the resources for you are : <URL> - The IRS official web site , that has all the up-to-date forms and instructions for them , guiding publications and the relevant rules . You might get a bit overwhelmed through . Software programs - TurboTax ( <URL> for a sole propriator or single member LLC , <URL> for more complicated business ) , or <URL> ( only one version that should cover all ) are for your guidance . They provide tips and interactive guidance in filling in all the raw data , and produce all the forms filled for you according to the raw data you entered . I personally prefer TurboTax , I think its interface is nicer and the workflow is more intuitive , but that 's my personal preference . I wrote about it <URL> last year . Both also include plug-ins for the state taxes ( If I remember correctly , for both the first state is included in the price , if you need more than 1 state - there 's extra $ 30 - $ 40 per state ) . Your state tax authority web site ( <URL> in your case ) . Both Intuit and H&amp;R Block have on-line forums where people answer each others questions while using the software to prepare the taxes , you might find useful information there . As always , <URL> is your friend . Now , why I think this is a mistake . Mistakes that you make - will be your responsibility . If you use the software - they 'll cover the calculation mistakes . But if you write income in a wrong specification or take a wrong deduction that you should n't have taken - it will be on your head and you 're the one to pay the fines and penalties for that . Missed deductions and credits - CPA 's ( should ) know about all the latest deductions and credits that you or your business might be entitled to . They also ( should ) know which one got canceled and you should n't be continuing taking them if you had before . Expenses - there are plenty of rules of what can be written off as an expense and how . Some things should be written off this year , others over several years , for some depreciation formula should be used , etc etc. . Tax programs might help you with that , but again - mistakes are your responsibility . Especially for the first time and for the newly formed business , I think you should use a ( good ! ) CPA . The CPA should take responsibility over your filing . The CPA should provide guarantee that based on the documents you provided , he filled all the necessary forms correctly , and will absorb all the fees and penalties if there 's an audit and mistakes were found not because you withheld information from your CPA , but because the CPA made a mistake . That costs money , and that 's why the CPA 's are more expensive than using a program or preparing yourself . But , the risk is much higher , especially for a new business . And after all - its a business expense .
IIRC it 's not a FICO score , as mentioned <URL> , too . That said , apart from borrowing money to optimise your credit score as a hobby , my understanding is that once you 're above a FICO score of 750 , it pretty much does n't matter how close to 800 you get .
My thoughts on loaning money to friends or family are outlined pretty extensively <URL> , but cosigning on a loan is a different matter . It is almost never a good idea to do this ( I say " almost " only because I dislike absolutes ) . Here are the reasons why : If the borrower does n't pay the loan , you are on the hook for the loan . If you ca n't wo n't / pay it in such a case as ( 1 ) , it your credit score will be trashed . If they default on the loan and the asset they bought does n't cover the loan balance , your own assets could be in danger ( this could mean garnished wages , property liens , lawsuits or other legal trouble ) When you apply for other loans of your own , this loan will apply to your debt/income ratio , and apply to your credit score , possibly negatively effecting your ability to borrow in the future If they default on the loan , not only will you be mad at them for not holding up their end of the agreement , they may be mad at you for not taking over payments for them . If they need a co-borrower , it means the bank thinks that they are not a good loan risk , and by their calculations they wo n't be able to pay back the loan . Usually when someone is unable to pay a loan , it is n't for lack of trying . Thus , your knowing their good character probably counts for little when the chips are down . If the bank thinks the math wo n't work out , it probably wo n't and you will be the one left to pick up the pieces . Now , all that said , if my sister or parents were dying of cancer and cosigning a loan was the only way to cure them , I might consider cosigning on a loan with them , if that was the only option . But , I would bet that 99.9 % of such cases are not so dire , and your would-be co-borrower will survive with out the co-signing .
I suspect you will need to consult with a tax professional on this one . In New York you would need to continue to file returns even if you did no business there until the partnership is dissolved . But I have no idea if Cali has anything rules like that . I would suspect since the partnership is on going the answer is no . Even though you plan no further business in Cali the potential exists that you could return there ( even if only in theory ) .
Here 's another way that I look at it : Say you and me were 50-50 partners in a small business . Suppose we wanted to expand our business but that needed money . Someone ( let 's call him Warren ) has the money we need &amp; hence in return for the money we offer Warren an equal stake in the business . i.e. All three of us own 33 % stake now . For both you and me our stake reduced from 50 % that it was before Warren 's entry to only 33 % now . While that reduction in our share may seem at first sight a bad deal for us , we both agreed to give Warren his share consciously not out of altruism but because it made business sense to helps us expand . Ergo , what matters is not just your share of the pie but the size of the pie itself ! And hence dilution of stake can make sense under certain circumstances . Two small points : ( a ) This does n't in any way show the dilution must make sense . Only that it can sometimes make sense ( b ) Of course , in the case of a large corporation they do not need your personal approval for the dilution . But hey , neither do they ask you when they buy a new plant or start a new product .
1 ) People are n't always going to be able to do their occupation , or their desired hobby . 2 ) Government assistance , or whatever you want to call it , is available at a certain age . Some people look forward to this and plan to rely on it , but it is n't really sufficient for living off of and keeping the standard of living you will be used to . Therefore , such situations require you to plan using a variety of other institutions to help you in that time . Finally , more is more : if your retirement funds exceed what you need , you can leave something for your family to help them start at a more stable financial place after you are gone .
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
It has more to do with who is paying the credit processors for the service , than what the goods really are . Essentially speaking , when you purchase goods worth $ 100 using your card , the store has to pay about $ 2 for the transaction to the company that operates that stores ' credit card terminal . If you withdraw cash from an ATM , you might be charged a fee for such a transaction . However , the ATM operator does n't pay the credit processor such a transaction fee - thus , it is classified as a cash transaction . It 's an attempt to discourage certain behavior . It is also used ( at least deciding to accrue interest immediately ) to prevent users from paying back one CC using a cash advance from another - this way one could run on grace periods indefinitely . Additionally , performing cash advances off a CC is a rather good indicator of a bad financial health of the user , which increase the risk of default , and in some institutions is a factor contributing to their internal creditworthiness assessment .
If the buyer exercises your option , you will have to give him the stock . If you already own the stock , the worst that can happen is you have to give him your stock , thus losing the money you spend to buy it . So the most you can lose is what you already spent to buy the stock ( minus the price the buyer paid for your option ) . If you do n't own the stock , you will have to buy it . But if the stock skyrockets in value , it will be very expensive to buy it . If for instance you buy the stock when it is worth $ 100 , sell your covered call , and the next day the stock shoots to $ 1000 , you will lose the $ 100 you got from the purchase of the stock . But if you had used a naked call , you would have to buy the stock at $ 1000 , and you would lose $ 900 . Since there is no limit to how high the stock can go , there is no limit to how much money you may lose .
I have no personal knowledge of this company ; I 've only looked over what I found on the web . Overall , my judgement is that Pension Benefit Information , Inc. of San Rafael , CA is likely legitimate and aboutmyletter.com is one of two sites run by them ( the other being pbinfo.com ) . These two sites are <URL> to Pension Benefit Information , Inc. ( aboutmyletter uses Network Solutions privacy service but gives the company name ; pbinfo uses their name and San Rafael address . ) They are in the BBB . The president ( of the 8 employee Co. ) , Susan McDonald , has <URL> before Congress about business uses of SSNs . They made a ( very schlocky ) video , which has an interview with McDonald after several canned , generic , " impressive " introductions . I found the interview convincing of a person actually running a small , real business of this type . A short version is on their site , <URL> . There are some queries about their legitimacy online ( like this one ) , but I found nothing negative on them , and <URL> . <URL> talks about the suspicions they run into when contacting participants , and has some advice . Also , scammers are unlikely to pay the U.S. Postal Service money to send paper letters . So what are the dangers ? Money or identity . So do n't pay them any fees ( now or later ) , especially since it looks like their clients ( retirement funds ) pay on the other side . As for identity information : What 's in the letter ? Do n't they show that they already know a bunch about you ? Old employer ? Maybe the last four digits of your SSN ? Your address ( if this is not the forwarded-by-IRS type of contact letter ) . Other things , maybe ? What information would you be giving up if you did respond to them fully ? You could try contacting your old company directly ( mentioning PBI , Inc , ) , although on their website PBI says you 'll have to go through them . ( They probably get paid for each successful contact , and deserve it . ) Still , responding through mail or telephone to PBI seems like the reasonable thing to do .
What happened in my case . I deposited the amount in my Chase account , and it was available for me the next morning . I did tell the teller that it was kind of urgent and she told me that it will be available after clearing at midnight . I was not able to cash the check at BofA , as they said the branches will not have that kind of cash with them and my only option was to clear the check .
What does it mean that the bank will " hold you responsible " ? Clearly the money wo n't be credited . Will you be charged a fee like an NSF cheque ? Will they try to prosecute you ? They will pull the money out of your account . Do n't spend it even if it appears to clear . It could take days/weeks for the whole cycle to be completed . Yes you could be charged a fee . It is up to your bank/credit union Will they try to prosecute you ? There was fraud committed , one or more banks were involved . There will be an investigation . The question was how involved were you in the fraud . So yes you could be prosecuted . Is there any way to confirm whether a cashiers cheque is forged ? Could you for example tell your bank that you were uncertain of the origin , and ask them to confirm it ? Can you call the issuer and verify ( from the serial number ) that they did in fact issue a cheque for that amount with you as the payee ? Even calling the bank might not help . The first verification is that the bank exists , and that the account number and name match and that they did issue a check . But that does n't cover the situation where the person that sent you the check was n't who they claimed to be . That is the theft that could take weeks to find .
While she can certainly get an LLC or EIN , it is n't necessarily required or needed . She can file as a sole-proprietor on her ( or your joint ) taxes by filling out a schedule-C addition to the 1040 . Any income or losses will pass through to your existing income situation ( from W-2 's and such ) . The general requirement for filing as a business in this regard has nothing to do with any minimum income , revenue , or size . It is simply the intent to treat it as a business , and unlike a hobby , the overall intent to earn a profit eventually . If you 're currently reporting the 1099-MISC income , but not deducting the expenses , this would be a means for you to offset the income with the expenses you mentioned ( and possibly other legitimate ones ) . There is no " 2 % AGI " restriction for schedule-C .
end question
start question
Refinance when going to sell ?
When evaluating a refinance , it all comes down to the payback . Refinancing costs money in closing costs . There are different reasons for refinancing , and they all have different methods for calculating payback . One reason to finance is to get a lower interest rate . When determining the payback time , you calculate how long it would take to recover your closing costs with the amount you save in interest . For example , if the closing costs are $ 2,000 , your payback time is 2 years if it takes 2 years to save that amount in interest with the new interest rate vs. the old one . The longer you hold the mortgage after you refinance , the more money you save in interest with the new rate . Generally , it does n't pay to refinance to a lower rate right before you sell , because you are n't holding the mortgage long enough to see the interest savings . You seem to be 3 years away from selling , so you might be able to see some savings here in the next three years . A second reason people refinance is to lower their monthly payment if they are having trouble paying it . I see you are considering switching from a 15 year to a 30 year ; is one of your goals to reduce your monthly payment ? By refinancing to a 30 year , you 'll be paying a lot of interest in your first few years of payments , extending the payback time of your lower interest rate . A third reason people refinance is to pull cash out of their equity . This applies to you as well . Since you are planning on using it to remodel the home you are trying to sell , you have to ask yourself if the renovations you are planning will payoff in the increased sale price of your home . Often , renovations do n't increase the value of their home as much as they cost . You do renovations because you will enjoy living in the renovated home , and you get some of your money back when you sell . But sometimes you can increase the value of your home by enough to cover the cost of the renovation . Talk to a real estate agent in your area to get their advice on how much the renovations you are talking about will increase the value of your home .
I would ask for a down payment of 1000 Euros through paypal or a similar payment source . If he backs out , he forfeits the 1000 eu . If that happens your airfare is covered plus some spending money . If he does not cancel then the down counts towards payment . In order for him to feel safer , I would take a pic of the ring with today 's paper , or something that can be dated as recent . Keep in mind you guys can meet at a bank to do the exchange . This way you both feel safer . The bottom line is what are you willing to do to sell the ring at that price ?
Can I sell section 54EC infra bonds before maturity ? That would depend on the specific bond , some can be sold before maturity but after the specified lock-in period . Some are non-negotiable / non-transferable and can not be sold before maturity The prospectus mentions that bonds in physical form can be transferred to another person or entity . Are there financial institutions that offer to buy these bonds ? How do I find them ? Banks will not do this . Any leading broker can help assist you in finding a buyer . Generally you may not find a good deal and the buyer does n't get any tax benefit and would buy this only for returns and hence may want to buy this cheaper . The broker can assist you with the process , it involves sending of the physical certificate along with a letter and ownership details of new buyer to the registrar of the respective entity . A new certificate will be issued to the new owner .
Will you be paying your mortgage during the period you are trying to sell ? That is the bigger indication of effect on your score . The other thing you might care about is how long you are black listed from future mortgages . It should be only a couple of years if you do a short sale , but closer to 7 if you walked away . The last I heard on the Clark Howard radio show was , as far as direct impact to your score , a short sale , a foreclosure and a deed in lieu all take the same number of points . But those points are not as many as the number of points you lose if you do n't pay your mortgage for several months . Worst case , plan for a drop of 400 points if you are n't paying your mortgage and the sale takes a long time . MyFico released a chart explaining the possible impact . Remember everybody uses a different scoring model , but this is a nice guide . <URL>
The company gets the proceeds from the sales of shares on the open market . If a company is selling 1,000,000 shares at $ 12/share then they will receive $ 12,000,000 from the underwriter minus some fees that the underwriter will collect . The part that ties into valuation is to consider what percentage is the company selling of itself that is coming from its own holdings . If the company is putting out 10 % of its shares in the IPO from treasury holdings on a $ 10B valuation then it will get $ 1B minus the fees I 'd suspect . Where I worked in late 1990s/early 2000s had an IPO where the underwriter did a bridge loan and the IPO so that the company did n't get all the money raised but did get enough to run operations for a while before ending operations . <URL> notes that after an IPO other offerings would be called " seasoned equity offering " that may or may not be dilutive as they could come from new or existing shares .
Anytime you do work without any payment until the work is complete , you are effectively extending credit to the party receiving your service . How much credit you are willing to extend will vary greatly , depending on the amount and the trustworthiness of the party . For example , if you are charging $ 50 for something , you probably wo n't bother to collect money upfront , whereas if you are charging $ 5,000 you probably would collect some upfront . But if the party you are working for is a large financially sound company , the number may be even much higher than $ 5K as you can trust you will be paid . Obviously there are many factors that go into how much credit you are willing to extend to your customer . ( This is why credit reports exist for banks to determine how much credit to extend to you . ) As for the specific case you are asking about , which may be classified as a decent amount of work for a small business , I would default to having a written scope of work , a place in the document for both parties to sign , and specify 50 % upfront payment and 50 % payment at completion . When you receive the signed document and the upfront payment ( and possibly even after the check clears ) , you begin work . I would call this my " default contract " and adjust according to your needs depending on the size of the job and the trustworthiness of the customer . As for your question about how to deposit the check , that depends on what type of entity you are . If you are a sole proprietor you should ask for the checks to be made out to you . If you are a business then the checks should be made out to your business name . You do n't need " in trust " or anything similar because your customer , after paying the upfront fee , must trust that you will do the work you promise to do , just like you have to trust that after completing the work you will receive the final payment . This is the reason the default is 50 % before and after . Both parties are risking ( roughly ) the same amount . Tip : having done the " default " contract many times in my career , both as a sole proprietor and a business owner , I can assure you there is a big difference between a potential customer agreeing to something in advance , and actually writing a check . The upfront payment definitely helps weed out those that were never going to end up paying you , even if their intentions were good . Tip 2 : be as specific as possible as to what the scope of work will include . If you do n't , particularly with software , they 'll be adding feature after feature and expecting it to be " included " .
ESPP tax treatment is complicated . If you received a discount on the purchase of your stock , that discount is taxable as ordinary income when you sell the stock . Any profit about the market value when the stock was purchased is taxed based upon the holding period of the stock . If you have held the stock less than a year , the profit is taxed at your marginal tax rate ( ie taxed as ordinary income ) . If the stock is held for more than a year , it is taxed at a special capital gains tax rate , which ranges from 0-20 % depending on your marginal tax rate ( most people pay 15 % ) .
You paid $ 352 for a $ 1000 bond , i.e. : you got $ 648 discount . So when the maturity occurs , you will get the $ 264 coupon payments and the $ 648 redemption value on top of what you actually paid - total $ 912 . If your capital gain exceeds that $ 912 - definitely sell , ASAP . Obviously there 's a risk that they will default , which judging by the discount you got someone thought is quite significant . That 's up to you if you want to take that risk . You were already aware that it is risky when you bought it , it seems .
Yes , on the settlement the stock is yours to sell with no risk of freeride or day trading applying .
It 's not enough just to check if your order does n't exceed 10 % of the 20 day average volume . I 'll quote from <URL> : You may still be assessed a fee for trading OTC stocks even if your account does n't meet the criteria because these restrictions are applied at the level of the <URL> , not the individual client . This means that if other investors with your broker , or even at another broker that happens to use the same clearing firm , purchase more than 5 million shares in an individual OTC stock at the same time , all of your accounts may face fees , even though individually , you do n't exceed the limits . The NSCC issues a charge to the clearing firm if in aggregate , their orders exceed the limits , and the clearing firm usually passes these charges on to the broker ( s ) that placed the orders . Your broker may or may not pass the charges through to you ; they may simply charge you significantly higher commissions for trading OTC securities and use those to cover the charges . Since checking how the volume of your orders compares to the average past volume , ask your broker about their policies on trading OTC stocks . They may tell you that you wo n't face illiquid charges because the higher cost of commissions covers these , or they may give you specifics on how to verify that your orders wo n't incur such charges . Only your broker can answer this with certainty .
No logistics , just sign the title . Gifts under $ 14K ( as of 2015 ) ( total per year per person you give gifts to ) <URL> . If you 're not going to give any more cars to your sister this year - you 're good to go .
The actual answer , as it turns out , is that nobody will even look at refinancing the loan on a car 8 years old . 8 years is apparently the cutoff point for " too old to get a loan " . I could get a loan when it was 7 , when I bought the car used , but ca n't refinance six months later . ( in my case , I 've had to juggle my medical bills around and work on consolidating my student loans so I can pay off the car loan faster . I 'm also looking at increasing my income . )
The Homebuyers Tax Credit was unrelated to whether or not a mortgage was part of the purchase . You will have no issue with this credit if you refinance .
Get your jewelery appraised . ( Do n't let whoever does the appraisal be the same person whom you would sell it to . ) Logically jewelery must be worthy more than the raw gold that makes it up because somebody took the time to design patterns and do specialty craft to the metal .
Say we have stock XYZ that costs $ 50 this second . It does n't cost XYZ this second . The market price only reflects the last price at which the security traded . It does n't mean that if you 'll get that price when you place an order . The price you get if/when your order is filled is determined by the bid/ask spreads . Why would people sell below the current price , and not within the range of the bid/ask ? Someone may be willing to sell at an <URL> of $ 47 simply because that 's the best price they think they can sell the security for . Keep in mind that the " someone " may be a computer that determined that $ 47 is a reasonable ask price . Remember that bid/ask spreads are n't fixed , and there can be multiple bid/ask prices in a market at any given time . Your buy order was filled because at the time , someone else in the market was willing to sell you the security for the same price as your <URL> . Your respective buy/sell orders were matched based on their price ( and volume , conditional orders , etc ) . These questions may be helpful to you as well : <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , you say you 're a day trader . If that 's so , I strongly recommend getting a better grasp on the basics of market mechanics before committing any more capital . Trading without understanding how markets work at the most fundamental levels is a recipe for disaster .
When evaluating a refinance , you need to figure out the payback time . Refinancing costs money in closing costs . The payback time is the time it takes to recover the closing costs with the amount of money you are saving in interest . For example , if the closing costs are $ 2,000 , your payback time is 2 years if it takes 2 years to save that amount in interest with the new interest rate vs. the old one . To estimate this , look at the difference in interest rate between your mortgage and the new one , and your mortgage balance . For example , let 's say that you have $ 100,000 left on your mortgage , and the new rate is 1 % lower than your current rate . In one year , you will save roughly $ 1,000 in interest . If your closing costs are $ 2,000 , then your payback time is somewhere around 2 years . If you plan on staying in this house longer than the payback time , then it is beneficial to refinance . There are mortgage refinance calculators online that will calculate payback time more precisely . One thing to watch out for : when you refinance , if you expand the term of your mortgage , you might end up paying more interest over the long term , even though your rate is less and your monthly payment is less . For example , let 's say you currently have 8 years left on a 15-year mortgage . If you refinance to a new 15-year mortgage , your monthly payment will go down , but if you only pay the new minimum payment for the next 15 years , you could end up paying more in interest than if you had just continued with your old mortgage for the next 8 years . To avoid this , refinance to a new mortgage with a term close to what you have left on your current mortgage . If you ca n't do that , continue paying whatever your current monthly payment is after you refinance , and you 'll pay your new mortgage early and save on interest .
No , you do n't . But you do need to file <URL> to report your foreign accounts if you have $ 10K or more at any given day in all of them combined , when you 're a US resident . You need to file FBAR annually by the end of June ( note : it must be received by FinCEN by the end of June , but nowadays you file it electronically anyway ) .
No matter what your job , the CPP and EI are paid centrally to the federal government , your new employer will continue to deduct under your same SIN number and report as such . What will not transfer as far as I know from one employer to the other is the amount paid so far this year for total deduction purposes . Therefore , at the end of the year , when you have two T4 forms , one from each job , you fill the total CPP and EI in the appropriate slots . If you have overpaid , compared to what you should have given your income , then it will be directly refunded ( or offset other taxes owing ) . There are no other taxes - not quite clear what you were asking in that third part .
It could be a couple of things besides extra principal : Future payment . If your payment is $ 500/month , and you write a check for $ 2,000 applied to future payments in January , you would n't need to make another payment again until May . This is different than applying to principal , because if you did that , you 'd still owe $ 500 in February , but would be closer to paying off the loan . Escrow payment . If for some reason you wanted to fund your escrow account ( for tax and insurance payments made on your behalf by the lender ) more than its current level , you could do this . I seem to remember hearing that some ( shady ? ) lenders would just pocket extra payments if you did n't specify where they were headed , but I 've also been told that this just is n't true .
Chase does not have to verify the identity of John Doe . No new credit account is being established , so the identity check requirements are not required . The account is still owned by Larry alone ; adding an authorized user does not modify the credit agreement between Larry and Chase . Larry is the person taking the risk of adding an authorized signer , not Chase . It is Larry 's concern to verify the identity of John Doe . Every bank can decide at their discretion if/how authorized users are reported to the credit bureau ( s ) . You may submit a request asking them to report or not report , but it is unlikely they will deviate from a standard policy to honor your request .
end question
start question
Should I learn to do my own tax ?
I would advise against " pencil and paper " approach for the following reasons : You should e-file instead of paper filing . Although the IRS provides an option of " <URL> " , there 's no additional benefit there . Software ensures correctness of the calculations . It is easy to make math errors , lookup the wrong table It is easy to forget to fill a line or to click a checkbox ( one particular checkbox on Schedule B cost <URL> ) . Software ask you questions in a " interview " manner , and makes it harder to miss . Software can provide soft copies that you can retrieve later or reuse for amendments and carry-overs to the next year , making the task next time easier and quicker . You may not always know about all the available deductions and credits . Instead of researching the tax changes every year , just flow with the interview process of the software , and they 'll suggest what may be available for you ( lifetime learners credit ? Who knows ) . Software provides some kind of liability protection ( for example , if there 's something wrong because the software had a bug - you can have them fix it for you and pay your penalties , if any ) . It 's free . So why not use it ? As to professional help later in life - depending on your needs . I 'm fully capable of filling my own tax returns , for example , but I prefer to have a professional do it since I 'm not always aware about all the intricacies of taxation of my transactions and prefer to have a professional counsel ( who also provides some liability coverage if she counsels me wrong ... ) . Some things may become very complex and many people are not aware of that ( I 've shared the things I learned here on this forum , but there are many things I 'm not aware of and the tax professional should know ) .
The HSA money is yours to keep . You ca n't add new money into the account and get a tax deduction for the new money , but you can spend the old money on medical expenses . First log into the website for the HSA and see if you have money left . This can be important because if there is still money left they might be charging you a monthly fee . You should have gotten a letter from the old company or the administrator when you left the High deductible insurance plan . This would have told you your options regarding the spending or transferring of old funds . HSA related numbers would have appeared on your W2 , and you should have a 1099-SA from the administrator . It is likely that there is a copy of the 1099 on the administrators website . The numbers you enter on the tax forms depends on how much you contributed from your paycheck , how much your company contributed , and how much you sent ( if any ) from other sources besides payroll deduction . You will also have to know how much money was withdrawn from the HSA and how much was used for medical purposes . The last month rule is for those people who start in the middle of the year . If you start partway through the year you are allowed to make the maximum contribution if you still have it at the end of the year , and <URL> . The Last Month Rule The Last Month Rule states that if you are covered by an HSA eligible health plan on the first day of the last month of a given year , you are considered an eligible individual for the entire year . In turn , you can then contribute to the HSA for that full year . If you are covered by an HDHP on Dec 1st of a given year , you may contribute the maximum for that year . For example , you could begin coverage and open up my HSA in November of a given year . Come December 1st , you are covered and per the Last Month Rule , considered an eligible employee for that full year . That allows you to contribute up to that year 's contribution limit , even waiting a few months to make a prior year contribution if you like . Back up the truck and load up the HSA ! However , there is a catch . The Testing Period The Testing Period states if you use the Last Month Rule , you must remain an eligible individual ( covered by HDHP ) for the following 12 months . If you fail to remain an eligible individual ( change insurance plans , lose insurance plan , receive other health coverage ) any " extra " contributions you made as a result of the Last Month Rule will be taxed and penalized . If you contribute per the Last Month Rule and end your HDHP insurance within 1 year , you will have to pay tax on any excess contributions you were allowed to make and pay a 10 % penalty . In this case , " excess " contributions are determined by the contribution limit / 12 months , compared to your time eligible .
As someone who 's currently shopping for some winter wheels and has the raised blood pressure to go with that , I 've got a few suggestions as to what would make me pick up the phone and call your or email you if you 're advertising a vehicle . Keep in mind that if you 're willing to deal with the additional hassle , you 'll normally get the most money for a used car if you sell it privately . If it is worth the additional effort though is both a matter of judgement and if you 're willing to put up with strange people like me :) . Depending on the value of the vehicle and its rarity/desirability , you 're looking at newspaper ads ( probably wo n't get you much of a response these days ) , craigslist , Autotrader and similar , and last but not least , ebay . If you 're trying to sell something that 's easy to find because there are five at every street corner ( think beige minivan ) , skip ebay . If it 's worth below 5k-6k , I would n't bother with places where you have to pay to advertise , which leaves CL for the cheap stuff - that said , I 'd still stick it on CL if it 's advertised in other places . Heck , it 's free after all . The figure out what sort of money you 're asking for . Check the resources like KBB.com and have a look at your local CL for similar vehicles . Out here , certain types of vehicles ( for example , Jeeps ) sell quickly and often above even KBB.com . A little market research will help you come up with a good price . Just do n't do things like asking a massively inflated price for a vehicle because you paid $ x five years ago . All this shows that you have no idea what your vehicle is worth . Oh , and I 'd always work out what the minimum I 'd take is - leave yourself some haggle room but do n't undersell the vehicle . Once you know where you advertise and for how much , pull together the basic facts for your vehicles and the points that would make it stand out . Basic facts about the car should include engine size , type of transmission , if it 's AWD ( where applicable ) , mileage . Color I can see on the pictures , but it 's nice to include that , too . If you have service records , recently replaced a big ticket item ( think transmission or similar ) or had a very recent service , especially a big one where you had a timing belt and waterpump changed , mention it . Do n't say the vehicle has a new engine if that was put in 100k miles ago , that 's nice to mention but it 's not new . If nobody 's ever smoked in it , mention it . If it 's got other outstanding features ( super low mileage , summer only use etc ) make sure to mention it that , too . Next , if it 's got any faults that you know of - especially obvious ones - disclose them . People like me will most likely find the leaking shock absorber and the rust holes in the floor anyway , and it makes a much better impression if you do tell us about them beforehand . Trying to tell someone that your banana-shaped car that looks like the Blue Man Group used it for practise is actually pristine and accident-free is n't going to go down very well . Next , pull together the paperwork - make sure you 've got the title ( if there is a lien on the title , check with the lienholder before advertising the car so you know their procedure for releasing the title ) , any maintenance records you have , manuals , receipts etc. . If the vehicle has a salvage title , try to find out why and mention it in the ad . I 've just had a comedian phone me while I was driving to see his vehicle and leave a message that he did n't have a title and did n't seem to be willing to bother to get one , either . Obviously that put me in the right frame of mind , given that it was a 200 mile round trip . So do n't do it - if you ca n't get a title , the schmuck you sold it to will have even less of a chance of getting one . And given that you are in California , a lot of people ( including myself ) react really badly to three years ' worth of back registration , missing smog , expired registrations on something I 'd expect to test drive etc. . Essentially anything that would stop a potential cash buyer to drive it away on the spot . Next , clean the car - you know , the five years ' of accumulated McD wrappers and inch thick layer of dirt ( I 'm only partially kidding , I 've seem some pretty horrible stuff recently ) . Spend the two hours it takes to clean it or pay to have it valeted or detailed . Clean , shiny cars sell a lot better than a rolling recycling container . Oh , and last - make the effort take some decent photos . The more the merrier , shot in daylight ( no photographing a black car after sunset ) and if there is any damage , an additional photo or two showing the damage would be nice . Stick the on photobucket or similar and put the links in your craigslist ad so you do n't restrict yourself to the microscopic photos that you normally get on there . As to payment , I 'd either take cash , meet the buyer at his bank where he draws out a cashiers check in front of your eyes , or , well , cash . No Kauri shells , deeds on bridges in Brooklyn or anything else . Be prepared to take a deposit - a
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
I think you 've got competition on that list for where to put the money - I 'd work out which option is costing me the most currently or will cost me the most in the future and take care of it . I 'd be willing to bet that Eric is right , though , that it will need to be the roof . Not fixing it could cost you more in the long run than any of the other items on the list ( assuming your circumstances remain roughly the same ) . General comments/other considerations : Interest on education loan tends to be quite low , so not worth targeting Not enough to top up the 401K given everything else you have going on I 'd ignore the car payments , unless you 're getting nailed with a bad interest rate ; if that were the case , it might warrant a closer look . Any money that does n't get spent on the roof ( if any ) - I would put in a rainy day fund .
In the old version of the plan you were flipping the stock very quickly . Some of the money was tied up for almost 90 days , some for only a few weeks . The risk that the stock would fall enough to cause you to lose money was small , but not zero . Therefore you felt comfortable with risking several hundred dollars a paycheck . The general advice is to not make the current company you work for a significant portion of your net worth because if the company suffers a disaster you can lose both the money and your job . How much is at risk ? Assume 7 checks per quarter @ $ 200 / check deposited . In the old program you had $ 1400 at risk but you owned ~ $ 1650 in stock . Under the new plan in the first quarter you will still deposit $ 1400 but while waiting for the 6 month window you will deposit another $ 2800 . By the time the first sell date occurs you will now have $ 4200 at risk , but you will own ~ 4950 in stock . The question is would you be willing to invest $ 4200 today in your company stock knowing that you ca n't sell for 6 to 9 months ? If that is too much of your net worth to put at risk , then you might have to look at some other way to allocate your money . Note : I do n't consider what you were doing as an investment . You found a way to generate some income each quarter . They are now changing the rules to make that a much riskier proposition , especially if the goal was income generation . The company may be trying to discourage participation in the new program .
From the IRS instructions for <URL> : Penalty for Not Filing If you are required to file Form 8606 to report a nondeductible contribution to a traditional IRA for 2010 , but do not do so , you must pay a $ 50 penalty , unless you can show reasonable cause . Overstatement Penalty If you overstate your nondeductible contributions , you must pay a $ 100 penalty , unless you can show reasonable cause .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
Simply put , the interest you 're paying on your loans is eating into any gains you have in the stock market . So , figure out how much you 're paying in interest and consider the feasibility of paying off some of the loan . Also figure in if you would be selling the stock at a profit or a loss . Generally speaking , a home loan is typically long-term , with a high principal . I believe the consensus is that it is typically not worth paying down extra on it . A car loan , though , is much shorter term , with a lower principal . It may be worth it to pay that down . I would certainly consider paying down the loan with 10 % interest , even without running any numbers . What about doing this without selling stock ? The reason I suggest that is that you should not sell the stock unless you truly need the money or for some material reason ( s ) related to the company , the market , etc. . ( Of course , one other reason would be to cut losses . ) Unless I was looking to sell some stock anyway , I would try other ways to come up with the money to pay down the highest interest loan , at least . If you are thinking of selling stock to pay down debt , definitely run the numbers .
If I were you I would pay off these loans today . Here are the reasons why I would do this : Car Loan For car loans in particular , it 's much better to not pay interest on a loan since cars lose value over time . So the longer you hold the debt , the more you end up paying in interest as the car continues to lose value . This is really the opposite of what you want to do in order to build wealth , which is to acquire assets that gain value over time . I would also recommend that once you pay the loan , that you set aside the payment you used to make on the loan as savings for your next car . That way , you will be able to pay cash for your next car , avoiding thousands of dollars of interest . You will also be able to negotiate a better price by paying cash . Just by doing this you will be able to either afford to buy a nicer car with the same amount of money , or to put the extra money toward something else . Student Loan For the student loan , 3 % is a very low rate historically . However , the reason I would still pay these off is that the " return " you are getting by doing so is completely risk free . You ca n't often get this type of return from a risk-free investment instrument , and putting money in the stock market carries risk . So to me , this is an " easy " way to get a guaranteed return on your money . The only reason I might not pay this down immediately is if you have any other debt at a rate higher than 3 % . General Reasons to Get out of Debt Overall , one of the basic functions of lifetime financial planning is to convert income into assets that produce cash flow . This is the reason that you save for retirement and a house , so that when your income ends when you 're older these assets will produce cash , or in the case of the house , that you will no longer have to make rent payments . Similarly , paying off these debts creates cash flow , as you no longer have to make these payments . It also reduces your overall financial risk , as you 'd need less money to live on if you lost your job or had a similar emergency ( you can probably reduce your emergency fund a bit too ) . Discharging these loans will also improve your debt-to-income ratio if you are thinking of buying a house soon . I wonder whether as someone who 's responsible with money , the prospect of cutting two large checks feels like " big spending " to you , even though it 's really a prudent thing to do and will save you money . However , if you do pay these off , I do n't think you 'll regret it .
When you add points , a break-even date comes into play . That date varies depending on the rate and number of points . As an approximate example , having one point at those rates would have a break-even point of about 5 years . At that time , the amount you save with the lower rate makes up for the extra cash you paid for points . After that , you are saving money . If you do n't plan on having the loan that long , the points are not worth it . Also , you need to calculate the break-even date based on your own parameters . I suggest searching for an online calculator or spreadsheet that supports point calculations . You may also be able to deduct 1/30th of your points every year . Ask you accountant about that .
From the comments , it sounds like you have a technical background . So I 'm going to suggest you think of this as a technical problem : it 's an optimization problem , where the variable you 're trying to optimize for is total interest paid over the lifetime of the loans . Step 1 is making sure you 're using the credit available to you most efficiently . If there 's room in the credit limit for card # 1 to move more of your debt there , then definitely move your balances from the higher-interest cards . However , be careful ; some cards will have different interest rates for balance transfers or cash advances . And definitely do n't move any principal from Card # 3 until the 0 % interest rate expires . Pursuing a bank loan as part of step 1 is valid as well . You could start with the bank you use for your checking account today . Credit unions can be a good source of lower-interest loans as well . Ensure that you fully understand the terms and interest rates , particularly if they change . Just be careful about applying for them ; too many rejections can affect your credit rating negatively . You also mention in the comments that you 're paying " her " mortgage . I do n't know how the ownership is set up there , but either refinancing or taking out a home equity loan can be a way to consolidate debt . The interest rate on a home loan will almost assuredly be less than on your higher rate cards , especially taking the tax deduction into account . Step 2 is paying down the debt efficiently . The rule here is simple : Pay the minimum payment on all cards except for the one with the highest interest rate ; any money you have above the minimum payments should go into paying down the principal on that one . In your case , that 's Card # 2 . Good luck !
It appears that co-signing does impact your debt-to-income ratio , at least in the US . An article on <URL> says : The loan you 've co-signed for can show up on your credit report , just like any other debt you have ... As a result , the loan you 've co-signed for can increase the size of your outstanding debt -- added to your mortgage , credit-card balances , car loan or student loans -- when lenders are deciding whether to let you borrow more money . You might have a tough time taking out other loans if the lender decides that your debt-to-income ratio or balance-to-credit limit is too high -- even if the payment history is perfect . An article on <URL> agrees saying : When you cosign any form of loan or line of credit , you are liable for the amount of money borrowed . This may affect your ability to borrow money for yourself because a lender for a larger loan , such as vehicle and home loans , will include the amount of the loan you cosigned on as part of your debt load when calculating your debt-to-income ratio . There is a similar question <URL> .
You 'll have to fill out the whole tax return , because the rate of tax payable on your capital gains depends on your total taxable income . And in any case , if you have capital gains you probably have other income of some kind that 's not fully accounted for in your PAYE code .
No . A deposit to an IRA must be in cash . A conversion from traditional IRA to Roth can be " in kind " i.e. . As a stock transfer . Last , any withdrawals can also be in stock or funds . IRS Publication 590 , so important , it 's now in 2 sections <URL> and <URL> , addresses IRA issues such as this as well as most others . By the way - now on page 7 - " Contributions , except for rollover contributions , must be in cash . "
You need to sift through the return to uncover the source of this discrepancy . You are correct , a rental put in service for 10 months with have 5/6 the depreciation of a full year . Something else is going on .
<URL> at HomeLogic describes the basics on what you can claim . In essence : You are probably good for a $ 500 credit ; Make sure you have the certifications from the builder but no need to submit them ; You will need 5695 from the IRS Note that the law does not explicitly include treatments like blinds , but as the link discusses , it does n't exclude them either . Submit your claim and see how it goes .
First off , you generally want to park your emergency fund somewhere that is " safe " , meaning something that is not subject to market fluctuations . Your emergency fund is something you need to be able to count on when times are tough ! That rules out things like stock market investments . Secondly , you need to think about how quickly you will need access to the money . If you have an emergency , odds are you do n't want to be waiting around for weeks/months/years for the money to become available . This rules out most fixed-term investments ( Bonds , traditional CDs , etc ) . If you are concerned that you will need near-instant access to your emergency money , then you probably want to keep it in a Savings or Money Market Account at the same bank as your checking account . Most banks will let you transfer money between local accounts instantly . Unfortunately , your local bank probably has pitiful interest rates for the Savings/MMA , far below the inflation rate . This means your money will slowly lose value over time . Be prepared to keep contributing to it ! For most people , being able to draw the cash from your fund within a few days ( < 1 week ) is sufficient . Worst case , you charge something on your credit card , and then pay down the card when the emergency fund withdrawal arrives . If " money within a few days " is okay for you , there are a few options : Money Market ( Mutual ) Funds ( not to be confused with a Money Market Account ) - This is the traditional place to keep an emergency fund . These are investment funds you can buy with a brokerage account . An example of such a fund would be <URL> . MMFs are not FDIC insured , so they are not exactly zero risk . However , they are considered extremely safe . They almost never go down in value ( only a few times in the past few decades ) , and when they have , the fund manager or the Federal Govt stepped in to restore the value . They usually offer slightly better return than a local savings account , and are available in taxable and non-taxable varieties . Online High-Yield Savings or Money Market Account - These are a relatively new invention . It 's basically a the same thing as what your local bank offers , but it 's online-only . No local branch means low overhead , so they offer higher interest rates ( 2.0 % vs 0.5 % for your local bank ) . Some of them used to be over 5 % before the economy tanked . Like your local bank , it is FDIC insured . One bit of caution : Some of these accounts have become " gimmicky " lately . They have started to do things like promo rates for a few months , only offering the high interest rate on the first few $ K deposited , limiting the amount that can be withdrawn , etc. . Be sure to read the details before you open an account ! No-Penalty CDs - Certificates of Deposit usually offer a better rate than a Savings Account , but your money is locked up until the CD term is up ( e.g. 36 months ) . If you need to cash out before then , you pay a penalty . Some banks have begun to offer CDs that you can cash out with no penalty at all . These can offer better rates than the savings account . Make sure it really is no-penalty though . Also watch what your options are for slowly adding money over time . This can be an issue if you want to deposit $ 100 from every paycheck . Rewards Checking Accounts - These are checking accounts that will pay a relatively high interest rate ( 3 % or more ) provided you generate enough activity . Most of them will have requirements like you must have direct deposit setup with them , and you must do a minimum number of debit card transactions from the account per month . If you can stay on top of the requirements , these can be a great deal . If you do n't stay on top of it , your interest rate usually drops back to something pitiful , though . Personally , we use the Online High-Yield Savings Account for our emergency fund . I 'm not going to make a specific recommendation as to which bank to use . The best deal changes almost week to week . Instead , I will say to check out <URL> for a list of savings accounts and CDs that you can sort . The <URL> is a good place to follow rate changes .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
Let me assume that you are going to be on the working holiday visa for a year ( July 2014 to July 2015 ) . For the UK side of things , as what you have described , you may not likely be deemed as non-resident , as you may not have meet the general criteria under the statutory resident test ( SRT ) . As a guideline , you will be non-resident if : you did not spend more than 45 days in the UK and were not resident in the UK in any of the three previous tax years , or you did not spend more than 15 days in the UK and were resident in the UK in one or more of the three previous tax years , or you are working full-time overseas and ; you spend fewer than 91 days in the UK , and you do not work in the UK for three hours or more on more than 30 days . and the guidelines pertain to the corresponding tax year ( 6 April - 7 April ) . You need to check out the <URL> or use <URL> to check your UK residency status . You may be able to benefit from split year treatment , where you are taxed as a non-resident ( see preceding paragraph ) for the period you are working overseas and as a UK resident for the period you are in UK ( i.e. Mar - July 2014 ) . Again , check out <URL> to check if you qualify . If you do n't qualify for split year treatment , your overseas income ( i.e. Japanese income ) will be taxed by HMRC as though it was derived from the UK . However , there is a double taxation agreement signed between Japan and UK , which prevents such taxation from occurring . Hence , if your status with the HMRC is either non-resident or split year treatment , the problem you have stated would not occur , as you would be paying Japanese tax only ( for work done in Japan ) . If you are subjected to UK tax on overseas income ( i.e. accorded resident status ) , you should pay Japanese tax as per normal for non-UK work . Once it 's time to file the UK tax returns , you should claim a Foreign Tax Credit Relief for the income that was taxed under Japanese tax rules ( i.e. income from work in Japan ) , so as to avoid double taxation . However , income for work in the UK ( even remote work ) will be subjected to UK tax , irregardless of residency status . I do n't know if Japan tax rules would tax non-Japanese derived sources . tldr : Japanese income should be paid to the National Tax Agency ( Japan ) and UK income to the HMRC . If your UK tax status is such that you have to pay tax on overseas income , claim a Foreign Tax Credit Relief as there is a DTC between Japan and UK . N.B. Income denotes remuneration paid for work in that particular country .
end question
start question
How do I properly pull my funds from one account and invest in another when I do not have a broker ?
You need to contact the institution that is holding your current account , have them sell your fund investment , and then close your account and send you a check for the balance . Then you can <URL> ( or call 800-319-4254 ) . You do n't need an account with an online broker unless you want to be able to invest in funds outside the Vanguard family . Fees will depend on the institution that you are currently using and the fund . With some funds you have to pay a " load " ( percentage of your assets , in the neighborhood of a couple of percent ) when you redeem shares . Your institution may charge you a fee for redeeming the fund ( anywhere from $ 0/free to maybe $ 40 or higher ) . Some institutions will charge a fee for closing the account . ( I 've seen anything from $ 0/free to $ 40 , but I have n't looked around in a while . ) As MrChrister points out in a comment below , this is not the best method for an IRA . In that case , you 'd want to make a transfer , and I 'd recommend calling both your current institution and Vanguard ( or wherever you end up transferring funds to ) for forms and instructions on how best to do it .
Usually the best advice is to find a company that offers IRAs containing low-cost index funds . <URL> is a noted example . Open a rollover IRA there and invest in funds the <URL> way . Pick an allocation by using the <URL> tag here to get the information you need about international stocks , domestic stocks , bonds , risk tolerance , and where you can find way more information . Rebalance that allocation every 12-18 months . Other than that , ignore the market . Unless you have the resources of a hedge fund manager , and maybe not even then , you wo n't be able to beat indexes like the S&amp;P 500 on their performance . Why should you go this route ? A little-touted fact about retirement investing is that one of the best ways to grow your money is to choose funds with the lowest expense ratio ( percentage of your earnings that go to the fund managers ) . See these questions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
To answer the question you will have to know when you moved ( June ) and when the losses occurred . If the partnership went bankrupt before you moved you will allocate all the losses to the first state . If it went bankrupt after you will have to prorate it . The 7/12 fraction you used might not be correct if it went bankrupt before the end of the year . Most of the losses could be in the first state . I found some guidance in the help pages for Turbo tax regarding [ part year situations ] : Method 2 for allocating earned income seems most appropriate : Method 2 : Estimate the number of weeks or months you worked at that job while you were a resident of one state and divide it by the total of weeks or months you worked at that job to come up with a factor . Then multiply the factor by the entire income from that job . Examples : If you worked at that job the entire year and moved in early May , you earned roughly 4 months ' worth of income ( 1/3 or 33 % of your total income ) in your old state . Multiply the income from that job by .33 to obtain the allocation for your old state ; the remainder is allocated to your new state . If you worked at that job for 39 weeks total ( 4 weeks while living in your old state ) you 'll divide 4 by 39 to come up with a factor of .1026 . Then multiply the income from that job by .1026 and allocate that amount to your old state ; the rest gets allocated to your new state .
You do n't have to use an agent ( broker , as you call it ) , but it is strongly advised . In some counties lawyers are required , in some not . Check your local requirements . Similarly the escrow companies that usually deal with recording and disbursing of money . You will probably not be able to get a title insurance without using an escrow service ( I 'm guessing here , but it makes sense to me ) . You will not be able to secure financing through a bank or a mortgage broker without an escrow company , and it might be hard without an agent . Agents required by law to know all the details of the process , and they can guide you through what to do and what to look into . They have experience reading and understanding the inspection reports , they know what to demand from the seller ( disclosures , information , etc ) , they know how and from where to get the HOA docs and disclosures , and can help you negotiate the price knowing the market information ( comparable sales , comparable listings , list vs sales statistics , etc ) . It is hard to do all that alone , but if you do - you should definitely get a discount over the market price of the property of about 5 % ( the agents ' fees are up to 5 % mostly ) . I bought several properties in California and in other states , and I would n't do it without an agent on my side . But if you trust the other side entirely and willing to take the risk of missing a step and having problems later with title , mortgage , insurance or resale , then you can definitely save some money and do it without an agent , and there are people doing that .
Applying some simple Math : $ 725,000 / $ 440,000 = 1.6477272727272 ... So , your cumulative return is 64.8 % if I round to 3 digits . Now , if I take the 5th root of 1.648 , I get approximately 1.1050742047085970060712045917364 So , your annualized rate of return is 10.5 % .
That depends , really . Generally speaking , though - Roth IRAs are THE PLACE for Stock-Market/Mutual-Fund investing . All the off the wall ( or , not so off the wall ) things like Real Estate investments , or buying up gold , or whatever other ideas you hear from people - they may be good or bad or whatnot . But your Roth IRA is maybe not the best place for that sort of thing . The whole philosophy behind IRAs is to deliberately set aside money for the future . Anything reasonable will work for this . Explore interesting investment ideas with today 's money , not tomorrow 's money . That being said - at your age I would go for the riskier options within what 's available . If I were in your situation ( and I have been , recently ) , I would lean toward low-fee mutual funds classified as " Growth " funds . My own personal opinion ( THIS IS NOT ADVICE ) is that Small Cap International funds are the place to be for young folks . That 's a generalized opinion based on my feel for the world , but I do n't think I 'm personally competent to start making specific stock picks . So , mutual funds makes sense to me in that I can select the fund that generally aligns with my sense of things , and assume that their managers will make reasonably sound decisions within that framework . Of course that assumption has to be backed up with reputation of the specific MF company and the comparative performance of the fund relative to other funds in the same sector . As to the generalized question ( how else can you work toward financial stability and independence ) , outside of your Roth IRA : find ways to boost your earning potential over time , and buy a house before the next bubble ( within the next 18 months , I 'm GUESSING ) .
As always with investments , it depends on your risk adversity . I do n't want to repeat the content of hundreds of recommendations here , so just the nutshell : ( For qualified investments , ) the more risk you are willing to take , the more returns you 'll get . The upper end is the mutual funds and share market , where you have long-term expectations of 8 - 10 % ( and corresponding risks of maybe + / - 50 % per year ) , the lower end is a CD , where you can expect little to no interest , corresponding to little to no risk . Investing in shares/funds is not ' better ' than investing in CDs , it is different . Not everybody likes financial roller-coasters , and some people mainly consider the high risk , which gives them sleepless nights ; while others just consider the expected high long-term gains as all that counts . Find out what your personal risk adversity is , and then pick accordingly .
Tax consequences The tax consequence is that if you wait until January of 2011 to invest , you wo n't have the option to sell as a long-term capital gain in 2011 . However , this is not a huge point in practice : If the investment is at a loss , you would rather it be short-term ( if you care at all ) . You can sell in late 2011 as a short-term loss in either case . If the investment is at a gain , you would rather it be long-term . However , you can just hold onto it into 2012 , since you normally would rather defer gains anyway . The exception would be if your marginal tax rate would be higher in 2012 than 2011 , which could occur because of your income going up , or tax code changes . This might cause you to prefer to sell in 2011 , if you were planning to sell soon anyway . Conversion ? If your income this year was very low , but will go up in 2011 , you might want to convert some or all of it into a roth ira this year . This would let you pay the tax on it at your low tax rate for this year , rather than at the likely higher rate when you retire . Investment return consequences An investment consequence is the fact that your money is sitting there , earning a lower expected rate of return than it could be . Not knowing your situation , I ca n't say how aggressive your holdings will be . Taking a fairly aggressive portfolio , 9 % expected yearly return , and not investing for a month , you lose about .75 % on average . Not huge , but something to consider . Remember that any decision you make here is n't permanent . If your previous allocation in the 401 ( k ) was 100 % in stock funds , you could put it in something like <URL> , Vanguard 's total US stock market ETF . Since the money was previously invested , dollar-cost averaging does n't apply here .
Instead of restricting yourself on a geographical basis , I would consider two markets that seem to fit the bill based on your question : <URL> : the four major countries in this category are the BRICS group - Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa . Growth is aggressive when the going is good but volatility tends to be high as well . <URL> : includes countries like Argentina and Bangladesh where the potential is high but the market is not as liquid and investment opportunities are not as easy to find ( relative to emerging markets ) . Once you 've decided on your risk appetite , I would consider using an ETF to buy in to these markets : <URL> <URL>
It is generally best to avoid such situations . Any credits to your accounts need to be explained to tax authorities whenever they enquire . This can not be treated as income as you did not work in exchange for the amount . It can be treated by tax authorities as GIFT . Gift upto certain amount is tax free . Beyond the amount its taxable . Gifts from close relatives has not amount limit and is tax free . Whenever the scrutiny happens , if you can convince the tax authorities that the action was more for convenience , it maybe fine .
You 've correctly understood the way charitable donations work . They are non-refundable tax credits , which means they reduce your income tax bill if you pay any , but ca n't reduce it below zero . <URL> . However the good news is that <URL> . This means that your best strategy is to hang on to those tax receipts , and assuming you start earning taxable income in the next five years , claim them then . EDIT : I would expect that making the donation through one of your parents would work . Essentially you would be giving the computers to your parents , and they would give them to the charity . You would have to make sure the receipts were issued in your parents name . You would also have to make sure that the amounts involved were small enough that your parents did n't pay tax on the gift to them , but in the amounts you seem to be talking about that should n't be a problem .
When you fill out your FASFA section 3 You will be asked some or all of these questions : Were you born before January 1 , 1989 ? As of today , are you married ? At the beginning of the 2012-2013 school year , will you be working on a master 's or doctorate program ( such as an MA , MBA , MD , JD , PhD , EdD , or graduate certificate , etc. ) ? Do you have children who will receive more than half of their support from you between July 1 , 2012 and June 30 , 2013 ? Do you have dependents ( other than your children or spouse ) who live with you and who receive more than half of their support from you , now and through June 30 , 2013 ? Are you currently serving on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces for purposes other than training ? Are you a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces ? At any time since you turned age 13 , were both your parents deceased , were you in foster care or were you a dependent or ward of the court ? As determined by a court in your state of legal residence , are you or were you an emancipated minor ? As determined by a court in your state of legal residence , are you or were you in legal guardianship ? On or after July 1 , 2011 , were you homeless or were you at risk of being homeless ? If you are unable to answer yes to at least one of these questions you will need a special circumstance to get a waiver . However , Federal law allows for some exceptions , if you have a special circumstance . The following are examples of some special circumstances where you may submit your FAFSA without providing parental information : Your parents are incarcerated ; or You have left home due to an abusive family environment ; or You do not know where your parents are and are unable to contact them ( and you have not been adopted ) . But not all situations are considered a special circumstance . The following are situations that would not be considered a special circumstance : Your parents do not want to provide their information on your FAFSA ; or Your parents refuse to contribute to your college expenses ; or Your parents do not claim you as a dependent on their income taxes ; or You do not live with your parents . <URL> Your school will have to approve the special circumstance if you apply for one . If you are not eligible for a special circumstance and can not provide parental income information then you will only be eligible for Unsubsidized loans . <URL>
If I read your figures correctly , then the cost difference is negligible . ( $ 1.84 difference ) The main determining factor , I 'd think , would be the coverage . Do you get more , or less , coverage now than you would if you went together on the same plan ? You 'd both be covered , but what is the cap ? Plans , and employer contributions , change all the time . How is business in both of your companies ? Are you likely to get cut ? Are you able to get back into a plan at each of your employers if you quit the plan for a while ? These rules may be unpleasant surprises if , say , your wife cancels her plan , goes on yours , and you lose your job . She may not be able to get back into her insurance immediately , or possibly not at all . A spouse losing a job is n't a " qualifying life event " the way marriage , birth of a child , divorce , etc. , is .
Get a credit report on yourself , if the report shows the outstanding debt then you can do something about it by writing to the bank . However keep in mind that a bank might write off a debt if they consider it not worth the cost of chasing it down . You could also try the lost bank account service : <URL>
The easiest way is most likely to simply visit the bank in person . Bring proof of your identity ( passport , driver 's license , national photo ID card , or whatever else happens to be most viable in your particular case ) , walk up to the counter and simply tell them that you forgot your account number and need them to tell you what it is . With a very high degree of likelihood they will be able to help you out right then and there , and if they ca n't because of some regulation ( government-imposed or company-specific ) , then they will tell you exactly what more they need from you . If you want to , you certainly can call the bank and ask what documentation they will need before going to the branch office yourself , and there is always the possibility that you can call them and ask them to send you some type of customer summary which will include this information , but they almost certainly wo n't be able to simply give you the account number over the phone because you most likely do n't have any way to prove to them over the phone that you are who you claim to be with regards to your account . So likely the best you can hope to get out of a phone call is to be told what sort of documentation you need to bring with you when you visit the branch office , or if you are lucky that they will agree to physically mail the information to you .
Most of the points by MrChrister are valid . I ca n't say much for Philippines , however there is a reason for one to go with individual insurance from my experience in India . Most of the insurance require you to stay with them for a period of 3 yrs before some of the other illness are covered under insurance . In this case it makes sense to continue for a single insurance with an insurer of your choice . Sometimes group insurance waive off or reduce the minimum period for some critical illness , you may need to check if there is any such clause in your employees insurance . Most of the company insurance is for a small amount . With rising medical costs this amount may not be sufficeint.Having your own insurance adds to a higher level of cover . For example if your employer has covered you for 100,000 and you have additional 100,000 on your own , and if you get hospitalized for an amount of 150,000 you can still get this covered as your overall limit is now 200,000 . Continuity Clause : Most of the insurance require you to prove that the illness is contracted during the priod of coverage and in certain cases this would be difficult to prove and one could be denied . For example my friend had a fall and a ligament tear , which he ignored for sometime . During this time he also changed jobs and was on other companies Medical Insurance policy . He had to later undergo a surgery to rectify this , but was n't paid because the doctor mentioned that this was pre-existing and could ' nt date this . Having a continious personal insurance will ensure these cases are avoided . Altough one can buy insurance when one is out of job , most of the time one is averse to spending / investing and one ends up not buying an insurance and the risk of this can turn out to be high .
If the employer included the reimbursement in the taxable wages portion of your w2 then you can take a deduction . This is most likely not the case . If the reimbursement is not included in your taxable wages then just leave the 1098 off your return . You are not entitled to any tax benefit because of it .
Gifts given and received between business partners or employers/employees are treated as income , if they are beyond minimal value . If your boss gives you a gift , s/he should include it as part of your taxable wages for payroll purposes - which means that some of your wages should be withheld to cover income , social security , and Medicare taxes on it . At the end of the year , the value of the gift should be included in Box 1 ( wages ) of your form W-2 . Assuming that 's the case , you do n't need to do anything special . A 1099-MISC would not be appropriate because you are an employee of your boss - so the two of you need to address the full panoply of employment taxes , not just income tax , which would be the result if the payment were reported on 1099-MISC . If the employer wants to cover the cost to you of the taxes on the gift , they 'll need to " gross up " your pay to cover it . Let 's say your employer gives you a gift worth $ 100 , and you 're in a 25 % tax bracket . Your employer has to give you $ 125 so that you end up with a gain of $ 100 . But the extra $ 25 is taxable , too , so your employer will need to add on an extra $ 6.25 to cover the 25 % tax on the $ 25 . But , wait , now we 've got ta pay 25 % tax on the $ 6.25 , so they add an extra $ 1.56 to cover that tax . And now they 've got ta pay an extra $ .39 ... The formula to calculate the gross-up amount is : where [ TAX RATE ] is the tax rate expressed as a percentage . So , to get the grossed-up amount for a $ 100 gift in a 25 % bracket , we 'd calculate 1 / ( 1 -.25 ) , or 1 / .75 , or 1.333 , multiply that by the target gift amount of $ 100 , and end up with $ 133.33 . The equation is a little uglier if you have to pay state income taxes that are deductible on the federal return but it 's a similar principle . The entire $ 133.33 would then be reported as income , but the net effect on the employee is that they 're $ 100 richer after taxes . The " gross-up " idea can be quite complicated if you dig into the details - there are some circumstances where an additional few dollars of income can have an unexpected impact on a tax return , in a fashion not obvious from looking at the tax table . If the employer does n't include the gift in Box 1 on the W-2 but you want to pay taxes on it anyway , include the amount in Line 7 on the 1040 as if it had been on a W-2 , and fill out form 8919 to calculate the FICA taxes that should have been withheld .
I do n't think there is any other solution that the one you are adopting . More info at <URL> <URL>
The presence of the 401K option means that your ability to contribute to an IRA will be limited , it does n't matter if you contribute to the 401K or not . Unless your company allows you to roll over 401K money into an IRA while you are still an employee , your money in the 401K will remain there . Many 401K programs offer not just stock mutual funds , but bond mutual funds , and international funds . Many also have target date funds . You will have to look at the paperwork for the funds to determine if any of them meet your definition of low expense . Because any money you have in those 401K funds is going to remain in the 401K , you still need to look at your options and make the best choice . Very few companies allow employees to invest in individual stocks , but some do . You can ask your employer to research other options for the 401K . The are contracting with a investment company to make the plan . They may be able to switch to a different package from the same company or may need to switch companies . How much it will cost them is unknown . You will have to understand when their current contract is up for renewal . If you feel their current plan is poor , it may be making hiring new employees difficult , or ti may lead to some employees to leave in search of better options . It may also be a factor in the number of employees contributing and how much they contribute .
end question
start question
Can I save our credit with a quickie divorce ?
If you 're not insolvent , doing something like this is both a moral and legal hazard : The Tax authorities may consider the $ 100,000 write-down as income . So you 'll potentially transform a debt to the bank to a smaller debt to the IRS and State Tax department . What you 're proposing to do is an act of fraud . ( probably a felony ) California is a community property state , which would make this particular scheme more complicated , since you and your wife own equal amounts of the property by statute . When you are insolvent , the tax and moral hazard issues can be a non-issue . Setting up a scenario that makes you appear to be insolvent is where the fraud comes in . If you decide to go down this road , spend a few thousand dollars on competent legal advice .
Your tax bracket is determined by your total taxable income in a given year , where money drawn from a traditional-style deferred-tax 401k or IRA is taxable income . ( Money drawn from a Roth account was taxed before deposit and is not taxed when withdrawn after the relevant date . ) Your recent salary history has no effect on this , except salary in the same year -- and there is no advantage to be gained by taking a deliberate pay cut for its own sake .
It depends on the terms of the mortgage . Generally speaking , residential mortgages specifically prohibit letting out a property without the bank 's express permission -- but as you say , that tends to assume that the whole property is being let , not just a part of it . Conversely , buy-to-let mortgages generally prohibit living in the property yourself ! The final arbiter as to what is allowed under a mortgage is the mortgage provider ; so the safest option is to speak to one or more banks , and see what they say . ( Note that if you 're changing the use of part of a property from business to residential , you may need to apply for permission ; check with your local council . )
mhoran mentioned PMI . One can look at a PMI encumbered loan this way : the rate on the loan is the mortgage rate for the lower 78 % of loan to value . The rest of the loan has a true rate that has to include the PMI cost . Mathematically , it 's as if you had two loans , a fixed rate , and a high priced second mortgage . If the $ 20k you need to pay down to eliminate PMI has a monthly $ 100 cost , the rate on that money should be viewed as 6 % above the mortgage rate you already pay . A credit card with too high a utization can ding your credit score short term . Regardless of total utilization . Aside from these two issues , adjust the rates for taxes , eg my 3.5 % mortgage is really 2.6 % , and stick with the plan to sort by rate to pay off . Too many expensive mistakes are made based on emotion . If you have the discipline of a mathematician go with the numbers . Keep in mind , millions ' feel ' good about a tax refund . When anyone tells you they got a big refund , they are bragging they planned poorly , lent the government money interest free , and are too ignorant to understand either point . I always respond " that 's great " and fake a smile . The debt snowball method is a cult that may provide an emotional win . No mathematician should belong to that cult .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
There are brokers that offer mutual funds with no fee . Others offer no commission ETFs . This would enable you to buy funds or ETFs from multiple fund families , if that 's your wish , but keep them in the same account . My own preference is to keep things as simple as possible , the fewer accounts , the better . If somehow one broker 's offering is n't to your liking , you should be able to do it with 2 . Great start , and the Roth is a great choice to kickstart your retirement account .
While this is a localized question that will change over time , nerdwallet.com tracks what they think are the best <URL> The deal with the prepaid cards is they shift around all the time , with who is the best at any given time being something you must shop for . So , here are the ways to shop for a prepaid card Look for the fees Monthly fees Transactions fees ATM Fees Fees to purchase the card Fess to reload the value on the card Balance inquiry fees Bill pay fees Inactivity fees ( which should tell you this is n't a great deal ) Look for limits ATM withdrawal limits Daily transaction limits Which ATMs you can use How to you put money on the card Will it accept direct deposits ? Is there a fee for that ? Other Gotchas Can you use it where you want to use it ? Will the card report to credit reporting agencies ?
He should definitely look into a <URL> . Each state offers one . These provide tax incentives . Other relatives can contribute . A downside is if your nephew does not end up going to college , there will be a pentalty for withdrawing the money for other purposes ( as there would be for withdrawing from a 401K early ) .
Will you be paying your mortgage during the period you are trying to sell ? That is the bigger indication of effect on your score . The other thing you might care about is how long you are black listed from future mortgages . It should be only a couple of years if you do a short sale , but closer to 7 if you walked away . The last I heard on the Clark Howard radio show was , as far as direct impact to your score , a short sale , a foreclosure and a deed in lieu all take the same number of points . But those points are not as many as the number of points you lose if you do n't pay your mortgage for several months . Worst case , plan for a drop of 400 points if you are n't paying your mortgage and the sale takes a long time . MyFico released a chart explaining the possible impact . Remember everybody uses a different scoring model , but this is a nice guide . <URL>
There is no absolute answer to this as it depends on your particular situation , but some tips : Invest as much as you can for retirement . In your first job you may be on the low end of the pay scale , but you have something much more valuable ... Time . Do n't underestimate how much impact compounding can do to your retirement savings by putting the bulk of it in a decade sooner . As to investing versus saving , you need to do some of both : First accumulate 3-6 months of living expenses in a savings account and do n't touch it unless you have a bona-fide emergency ( like losing your job or major medical expenses ) Next , Contribute at least as much to your 401k as your company will match , any less and you are turning away free money . Next , Pay down debt as quickly as possible on credit cards and depreciating assets ( like cars ) . Max out the 401k and/or other tax sheltered retirement accounts as much as possible . You may be at the low end of the pay scale now , but believe it or not you probably have more disposable income than you ever will later when kids/family get into the picture . Also you have TIME on your side and money invested over time is a very powerful tool to get rich . Do not wait until you " make enough " to save for retirement . Save whatever you can now . Be careful about stockpiling too much in bank accounts . Inflation will eat that money up over time to the tune of 3-4 % / year . You are young and have a longer investment horizon for retirement , take advantage of that and accept a little more risk while you can .
No . It 's either/or . For those who are able to take the credit , the math usually favors that option .
This entirely depends on the individual store 's policies . In general , stores are not required to accept returns at all . So when they do accept returns , they can put any conditions they want on them . In the past , the original receipt was the only record of a sale . When you returned the item , they would write on the original receipt , so that it could not be used again to return the same item . They would not accept photocopies ( or digital pictures ) because there was no way to validate them . Many stores now keep a complete record of every sale in a database . Those stores do n't need an original receipt . They can simply look up the number from your photo of the receipt and validate it . Once you return the item , the receipt is marked in the database so that it can not be used for a return again . Not every store allows this , however . You 'll need to ask the stores you shop at to find out what their return policies are .
between two people purchasing a house together , one with good and one with bad credit , will having both persons on the loan raise the interest rates . If the house deed is on both names , generally the Bank would insist the loan should also be on both of your names . This to ensure that Bank has enough leverage to recover the house in case of default . If one of you has bad credit , bank would raise the interest rate , assumption that bad credit would drag the good credit and force him to some activities / actions that could stretch the finance of one with good credit . If timely payments are not made , it would make your good credit to bad . If the house deed is on only on your name and you can get the loan on your own , this would be a better position . If the house deed is on only on your name and you would like to loan to be on both names , then the positive side is credit score of the person with bad credit would start showing improvement over period , provided both of you make timely payments . As pointed out by keshlam , there are enough question where people have entered into agreement without deciding what would happen if they separate . There is no right / wrong answer . It would be best you decide how it would be with respect to the ownership in the house and with respect to payments and if in worst case you part ways , how the settlement should look like .
It can certainly help build a credit score , but remember that businesses gain credit differently from individuals . Depending on the country , there is n't usually a national register of business credit ratings the way there is for individuals . The credit record you 'd be gaining is with your own bank only . Banks will usually base your business credit record on revenue and transactional loads rather than merely on having and holding a credit card . That said , it is n't always that easy to get a business credit card and so it is a useful thing to have for credibility with clients ( depending on the type of work you do ) . A credit card can also sometimes work out cheaper ( and faster ) for financing small overdrafts than a regular business overdraft facility . That said , I 've found that larger loans over a five-year term can work out much cheaper for an established business than they would for an individual , even where the business itself has no history of using credit .
A CD will give you a higher rate of return . The tradeoff is you can not access your money until the CD matures . If you need the ability to get your money , you should choose a savings account . If you wo n't use your money for awhile , choose a CD . Right now interest rates are so abysmal , you are n't going to get much return with either ( so I would recommend against locking up your money in a CD ) .
No , you can not generally deduct these expenses . These are investigatory expenses that you made before acquiring the property . Had you acquired it - they would be added to the basis as part of the closing costs , but since you actually have not purchased an asset - you have nothing to add to the basis of . This has been the settled law after a Tax Court decision since 1931 .
Can you pull a credit report on your adult child , spouse - or even any other adult for that matter ? If you have access to things like national ID ( Social Security number ) , can answer security questions related to addresses they have previously lived and outstanding major debts they may have ( house loans , car loans , etc ) , then sure you physically can . Now , is it legal to do so ? <URL> ( a credit bureau ) obtaining someone 's credit report without their permission is considered identity theft and fraud , even if you do not use it for some nefarious purpose . Even if you are a parent , it is a violation of federal and state laws and is punishable by fines and imprisonment . Can they find out ? Absolutely ! <URL> ( according to Visa ) , or in some other way tripping a security alert ( such as if the person has intentionally put a " freeze " on their account and opted-in to some identity theft protection scheme , <URL> ) , will cause your attempt to fail and often require calling the company directly to provide additional verification information ( which of course you may not have and is less predictable ) . Depending on the <URL> , a monitoring service might even send an email or letter to a person directly if such an attempt is made ( but this does vary by service and bureau ) . Even if you do it correctly , all requests are logged and often are noted on credit reports regarding past inquiries - so if in the future they run their credit report they may see the inquiry they will know they did n't request ( that 's weird , this is the first time I 've ever checked my credit ... ) . If the person is using a mailing address you do n't know about , like a PO Box or a friend 's house to get mail ( so you do n't know about their card/statements/loans ) , then you will almost certainly lock the account and a fraud alert will be sent in a way you ca n't intercept . That 's going to be an unpleasant set of conversations ! The alternative : <URL> You can request it so you can go over the importance of good credit with them , or you can tell them outright you are concerned that they may be getting themselves into debt . You can bribe them with getting them a for-fee credit score and analysis at your expense , or extort them by demanding that if they do n't like it they can live somewhere else ... how you play it is up to you . But horror stories are easily avoided , and you can use the opportunity to actually get a credit report and sit down and go over it together . Do they know what a report is and what 's on it ? Most adults twice their age sure do n't ! Parenting tip bonus : if you are open and honest and explain why you 'd like to get a credit report and sit down with them to discuss it and they freak out - bingo , you 've got an answer that something is wrong and it did n't cost you a dime and you did n't break the law . Now , to be completely clear , if they do n't respond well to the credit report that is n't evidence of some kind of guilt or impropriety ( a thanks to the comments for pointing out this potential misinterpretation ) . However , what it does indicate is your relationship may be out of whack - imbalanced or unhealthy in some way . You could be in a co-dependent situation where you are covering for them so they do n't have to be responsible or independent ( bad for both of you ) , or they may be hiding from reality , or you may have have developed serious trust and boundary issues that need to be addressed , or any of dozens of other possibilities ! All of these are possible - they might be really screwing up , or maybe you are , or maybe you both are , or maybe it 's all ok and you can relax . I hope this makes clear the importance of figuring out what reality is and dealing with that , which is the foundation of personal financial health and healthy personal relationships , too !
You should pay for grad school without taking loans if your circumstances permit . There is the possibility of a tax write off for interest paid on student loans , but <URL> and it 's very much a " give me $ 10 , and I 'll give you $ 5 back " kind of deal . You 're better off not borrowing the money to begin with , even though I tend to think that borrowing for things which appreciate -- e.g. , a house -- or which can significantly increase your earning capability -- e.g. , the right kind of graduate school -- is generally better/wiser/more permissible than borrowing for something which depreciates , like a car . Having no student loan debt after graduation means you have greater freedom than someone who is laboring to pay student loan debt in addition to all of their other bills . My $ 0.02
Math - The half-match is 3 % or $ 3900 . After 5 years , $ 19,500 . If you stay , you are vested , and have $ 20K ( I hope it 's actually far more ) extra . For you , it 's like 2 month 's salary bonus after 5 years . If you leave early , the good news is that even if the expenses within the plan were n't great , you have the money you put in , along with what vested so far . You move that to an IRA and choose your own thrifty funds or ETFs . For me ( as Duff said , there 's no one answer , so to be clear , this is my feeling , or preference , not gospel ) 6 % is far too little to save as a percent of my income . So if the 401 ( k ) fees ran say .8 % or higher , I 'd put in the 6 % to get the potential match , and then save on the side . Our answers might change slightly depending on the exact fees you 're exposed to .
Keeping a receipt does allow you to verify that the expected amount was charged/debited it also can help when you need to return an item . Regarding double charging , the credit card companies look for that . If the same card is used at the same vendor for the same exact amount in a short period of time the credit card company will flag the transaction . They assume either a mistake was made , or fraud is being attempted . The most likely result is that the transaction is denied . A dishonest vendor can write down the card number , expiration date and CVV number . Then after you leave make up a new transaction for any amount they want . You of course would n't have a paper receipt for this fraudulent transaction . The key is reviewing your transaction history every few days : looking for unexpected amounts , locations , or number of transactions .
end question
start question
Why do n't institutions share stock recommendations like Wall Street analysts ?
Primarily because they do n't want big price movements when they are in the market . If they spook the markets , either they have to buy at a higher price , or they sell at a lower price or they decrease the price of their holdings ( which is n't always a big factor ) . The 3 situations they did n't want to be in the first place . And the most important thing is most analysts are dumb bozos , whom you should ignore . They tout because they want to increase their exposure in your eyes , so that they may land a job in one of those big investment companies , or they might be holding stocks and want to profit from it . Frankly speaking if you take advice from the so called analysts , be prepared to say goodbye to your money some day , may n't be always . One near case maybe Carson Block from Muddy Waters , but he does his homework properly .
Out of your seven recommendations one is up 14 % , one up 6 % , four are either even or down slightly and one is down a whopping 40 % . This reminds me of a recommendation earlier in the year provided by The Motley Fool to buy XRO.AX when it was around the $ 40 mark . I had a quick look at it and thought " gee there is no way I am buying those shares " . Now they are just below $ 15 . See the chart below : You have just learnt a valuable lesson by testing these recommendations without your real money - never trust investment recommendations from analysts ( or anyone else ) . Get yourself educated so you understand what analysts are talking about and you can make a decision for yourself . Better still learn about technical analysis so you can decide for yourself whether it is the right time to buy or sell .
First and most likely , it is simply historical . RRSPs have been around for many years , while TFSA are new . Therefore companies have plans in place to deal with them as a benefit to their employees . Secondly , is the tax sheltering aspect . Because RRSPs generate a tax refund while TFSA are invested with after-tax cash , companies are more attuned to the pension adjustment aspects of the RRSP refund area than TFSA .
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
After consulting an accountant , it would appear there is no problem with the shares being held jointly in two , or even more names . In the event that the shares attract a dividend it would be split equally between the shareholders and would have the same taxation implications for the shareholders as all UK company dividends . Thanks for all help provided !
Stock price = Earning per share * P/E Ratio . Most of the time you will see in a listing the Stock price and the P/E ration . The calculation of the EPS is left as an exercise for the student Investor .
Think about the implications if the world worked as your question implies that it " should " : A $ 15 share of stock would return you ( at least ) $ 15 after 3 months , plus another $ 15 after 6 months , plus another after 9 and 12 months . This would have returned to you $ 60 over the year that you owned it ( plus you still own the share ) . Only then would the stock be worth buying ? Anything less than $ 60 would be too little to be worth bothering about for $ 15 ? Such a thing would indeed be worth buying , but you wo n't find golden-egg laying stocks like that on the stock market . Why ? Because other people would outbid your measly $ 15 in order to get this $ 60-a-year producing stock ( in fact , they would bid many hundreds of dollars ) . Since other people bid more , you ca n't find such a deal available . ( Of course , there are the points others have brought up : the earnings per share are yearly , not quarterly , unless otherwise noted . The earnings may not be sent to you at all , or only a small part , but you would gain much of their value because the company should be worth about that much more by keeping the earnings . )
The companies have Symbols on all exchanges where they are traded . They can be in different countries , with different prices and in different currencies . Also maybe trading at different times ( as market hours vary ) .
It depends how you do it . If you roll it from your 401k directly to a Roth then you will have to pay the taxes . The contributions to the 401k are tax deferred . Meaning you do not owe taxes on the money until you collect it . Roth contributions are post tax but the gains are not taxed so long as they are disbursed under acceptable conditions according to the regulations . If you roll it directly from the 401k to a regular tax deferred IRA you should be able to do that with out penalties or taxes . You will still have to pay the taxes at disbursement . If you have the money disbursed to you directly then you will have to pay the penalties , fees , and taxes . Your contributions to an IRA will then be subject to limitations based on the IRA . It will literally be exactly like you are taking money from your pocket to invest in the IRA . Your company should give you the option of a rollover check . This check will be made out to you but it will not be able to be deposited in a regular account or cashed . It will only be redeemable for deposit into a retirement account that meets the regulatory requirements of the 401k rollover criteria . I believe the check I received a few years ago was only good for 60 days . I recall that after 60 days that check was void and I would receive a standard disbursement and would be subject to fees and penalties . I am not sure if that was the policy of T.Rowe Price or if that is part of the regulation .
While a lot of trading is executed by computers , a substantial amount is still done at the behest of humans . Brokers managing accounts , Portfolio Managers , and Managers of Mutual Funds doing stock picks etc. . Those folks are still initiating a very large number of the trades ( or at least one side of a trade ) . And those humans do n't work 7 days a week . it 's not just computers talking to computers at the behest of other computers . And even a lot of places that use computers to create models and such , there are still humans in the loop to ensure that the computers are not ordering something stupid to be done . I personally worked for a firm that managed nearly $ 20Billion in stock portfolios . The portfolios were designed to track indexes , or a mix of indexes and actively managed funds , but with the addition of managing for tax efficiency . A lot of complex math and complicated ' solver ' programs that figured out each day what if anything to trade in each portfolio . Despite all those computers , humans still reviewed all the trades to be sure they made sense . And those humans only worked 5 days a week .
I agree with the answer by @Michael that this number does n't exist . It 's hard to see what use it would have and it would be difficult to track . I 'm writing a separate answer because I also disagree with the premise of your question : Individual shares of stock have never to my knowledge had such a number . Your comment about numbers on stock certificates identifies the certificate document , which will generally represent multiple shares of stock . That number no more identifies a single share of stock than the serial number on a $ 10 bill identifies any one of the ten dollars it represents . Even at the " collective " unit of $ 10 , when the bill is eventually replaced with a new one , the new bill has a new number . No continuity .
To get a good estimate , go <URL> or other similar sites and see . But basically , yes , you can save yourself a whole lot of money just by paying extra every month . One note though , do make sure you are specifying that you want the money to go towards principal , not escrow or toward prepaying interest .
For this to work , those who control the dilution must also control their salaries because the only way for them to be paid off when it 's the corporation itself selling is to gain access to the proceeds . When a corporation sells newly issued equity , the corporation itself owns the money . To at least have the appearance of propriety , the scammers must be paid those proceeds . Both actions imply that the board is captured by the scammers . There are many corporations that seem to do this even with persistently large market capitalizations . The key difference between this and pump-and-dump is that its a fraudulent group of investors selling in this case instead of the corporation itself . A detailed simple example Corporations are mandated by law to be little oligarchies ; although , " republic " is now becoming more appropriate with all of the new shareholder rights . A corporation is controlled at root by the board of directors who are elected by the shareholders . The board has no direct operational control , as that is left to the " king " , the CEO ; however , the board does control what everyone wants access to : the money . Board members have all sorts of legal qualitative mandates on how to behave , and they 've functioned fairly decently efficiently over the long run , but there are definitely some bad apples . Boards are somewhat intransigent since it 's difficult to hold board elections , and usually only specific board members are put up for election by a shareholder vote , so a bad one has the potential to really get stuck in there . Once a bad one is in there , they do n't care because they know it will be tough to get them out , so they run roughshod over the company 's purse . Only the board can take action on major funding such as the CEO 's operating budget , board compensation , financing , investment , etc , some with shareholder approval , some without . The corporation itself owns all of those assets , but the board controls them . In this example , they scheme with most likely the top executive , but a rubber stamp top executive could allow a lower rung to scheme with the board , but the board is always constant until the law is changed . Because there 's no honor amongst thieves , the board votes which can require some combination of executive and shareholder approval are taken very close together : sell shares , increase salaries to key executive schemers , increase board compensation . The trusting shareholders believe this is in the best interests of the company at large so go along . So the money flows from existing &amp; new shareholders to the corporation now controlled by a malicious board and then finally to the necessary malicious executive and the vital malicious board .
I 'm just began playing in the stock market . I assume you mean that you 're not using real money , but rather you have an account with a stock simulator like <URL> . I am hopeful that 's the case due to the high level of risk involved in short selling like you 're describing . Here is <URL> about short selling that expands a bit on that point . To learn much more about the ins and outs of short selling I will point again to Investopedia . I swear I do n't work for them , but they do have a great <URL> . When you short sell a stock you are borrowing the stock from your broker . ( The broker typically uses stock held by one or more of his clients to cover the loan . ) Since it 's basically a loan you pay interest . Of course the longer you hold it the more interest you pay . Also , as Joe mentioned there are scenarios in which you may be forced to buy the stock ( at a higher price than you sold it ) . This tends to happen when the stock price is going against the short sell ( i.e. you lose money ) . Finally , did anyone mention that the potential losses in a short sell are infinite ?
<URL> has this bottom line on it : Are share buybacks good or bad ? As is so often the case in finance , the question may not have a definitive answer . If a stock is undervalued and a buyback truly represents the best possible investment for a company , the buyback - and its effects - can be viewed as a positive sign for shareholders . Watch out , however , if a company is merely using buybacks to prop up ratios , provide short-term relief to an ailing stock price or to get out from under excessive dilution . Read more : <URL> What is the reason that a company like AAPL is buying back its own shares ? Offsetting dilution would be my main thought here as many employees may exercise options putting more stock out there that the company buys back stock to balance things . Does it have too much cash and it does n't know what to do with it ? No as it could do dividends if it wanted to give it back to investors . So it is returning the cash back to investors ? Not quite . While some investors may get cash from Apple , I 'd suspect most shareholders are n't likely to see cash unless they are selling their shares so I would n't say yes to this without qualification . At the same time , the treasury shares Apple has can be used to give options to employees or be used in acquisitions for a couple of other purposes .
Are you sure you 're not just looking at prices that are adjusted for the split , e.g. Yahoo ? For example , Gilead Sciences ( GILD ) split a few months ago , but if you look at a <URL> , there is n't an interruption even though the split is clearly marked . ( Look in the past six months ; it split in January ) . However , you could also simply be watching companies that happen to not split , for a variety of reasons . This is n't a criticism , but rather just a consequence of whatever stocks you happen to be watching . However , a quick search for information on stock splits yields a <URL> <URL> ( mainly from the Motley Fool ) that argue that fewer companies are performing stock splits in recent years ; the articles mainly talk about tech companies , and they make the argument that even though the shares in Google and Apple have a high stock price : Google and Apple are n't all that expensive by traditional valuation metrics . Google trades at just 15 times next year 's projected profitability . Apple fetches a mere 13 times fiscal 2012 's bottom-line estimates . These articles are a bit dated in terms of the stock prices , but the rationale is probably still good . Similar logic could apply for other companies ; for example , since May 2009 , Panera 's stock price has climbed by almost a factor of 4 without splitting . The articles also make the point that stock splits were traditionally seen as bullish signs because : Companies splitting to bring their share prices back down to more accessible levels were optimistic in building those sand castles back up . One could make a fair argument that the overall economic climate is n't as bullish as it used to be , although I would only be convinced that this was affecting stock splits if data could be gathered and tested . A stock split can also raise the price of a stock because if small investors feel the stock is suddenly more accessible to them , they purchase more of it and might therefore drive up the price . ( See the Investopedia article on <URL> for more information ) . Companies might not see the necessity in doing this because their stock price is n't high enough to warrant a split or because the price is n't high enough to outprice smaller investors . One interesting point to make , however , is that even though stock splits can drive small investors to buy more of the stock , this is n't always a gain for the company because professional investors ( firms , institutions , etc. ) have a <URL> after a split . The paper is a bit old , but it 's still a very neat read . It 's possible that more and more companies no longer see any advantage to splitting because it might not affect their stock price in the long run , and arguably could even hurt it . Considering that large/professional investors likely hold a higher percentage of a company 's shares than smaller investors , if a stock split triggers a wave of selling by the former , the increasing propensity to buy of the latter may not be enough to offset the decline in price . Note : My answer only refers to standard stock splits ; the reasons above may not apply to a decrease in the number of reverse stock splits ( which may not be a phenomenon ; I do n't know ) .
In my opinion , subtenant B should pay 1/4 of the utilities . Each person consumes 1/4 of the utilities . Normally , each person would pay 1/4 of the utilities . However , Subtenant A has an agreement with the two co-tenants that he does n't have to pay for utilities ( it is included in his rent ) . This means that the co-tenants get the rent , but need to pay for his share of the utilities . Subtenant B was not part of that agreement . He does n't receive any of the rent money from Subtenant A , so he should n't have to pay for any of Subtenant A 's portion of the utilities . Here is how I would divide up the utility bill : Subtenant B pays 1/4 . Subtenant A pays 0 . Each co-tenant pays 3/8 . ( 1/4 for his own share , plus half of Subtenant A 's share )
Actually , they are done computer to computer , but only between authorized companies . The Wikipedia article is correct in its overall statement , in that only licensed people and companies are allowed to trade on the exchange . That can indeed , however , be between the computers of those companies and the computer that is the central matching engine of most exchanges these days . The usage of brokers is , in effect , a distributed trust model . The Exchange can vet and certify a certain number of serious people/companies . Those companies in turn can vet more people ( their clients ) . The brokers on the exchange therefore do n't have to worry about the clients of the other broker 's exchange , but only the other broker , and they trust that broker because of the Exchange 's oversight .
This is basically done to reduce costs and overhead , with agreement of the credit card issuers . When the card is physically present and the charge is low , the burden of keeping the signed receipts and of additional delays at the cash register is not worth the potential risk of fraud . Depending on the location and the specific charge-back history of the business , the limit above which signature is required differs . In one supermarket in the area I live they require signatures only on charges above $ 50 . In another , 10 miles away from the first one , they require signatures on charges above $ 25 .
Primarily because they do n't want big price movements when they are in the market . If they spook the markets , either they have to buy at a higher price , or they sell at a lower price or they decrease the price of their holdings ( which is n't always a big factor ) . The 3 situations they did n't want to be in the first place . And the most important thing is most analysts are dumb bozos , whom you should ignore . They tout because they want to increase their exposure in your eyes , so that they may land a job in one of those big investment companies , or they might be holding stocks and want to profit from it . Frankly speaking if you take advice from the so called analysts , be prepared to say goodbye to your money some day , may n't be always . One near case maybe Carson Block from Muddy Waters , but he does his homework properly .
end question
start question
How should a US resident who is a joint owner of a Canadian corporation file taxes ?
You 're in an area where a professional advice is a must . It is not only the taxes and reporting , but also an issue of international taxation . US is very aggressive towards holdings in foreign lands . The tax rates for income from foreign corporations are higher than domestic , with less available deductions and credits , and less ability to avoid double taxation . Get a good EA/CPA licensed in your state , who 's proficient in working with Canadians and the US-Canadian tax treaty . Remember , that after reporting all the taxes - there are additional forms for you to file : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and possibly a bunch of others ( form <URL> specific for Canadians , for example ) . Welcome to the US . You 're a foreigner , its a crime here . As a punishment , you 'll have to author a small book ( not kidding , my tax return was close to 100 pages at some point , more than Mitt Romney 's , and I 'm no millionaire ... ) every year .
First suggestion - talk to a State-licensed tax practitioner ( CPA in your state ) , because this can be nasty . As I mentioned in the comments - its a serious offence , and your employer may get in trouble . But the fact that you ( or your boss ) think you were misclassified does n't necessarily make you so . For you it is of course better to be a W2 employee - less FICA . But on the other hand - also less withholding ( probably too late to worry about it now ) , less unemployment compensation , less worker 's compensation , etc. . For employer 1099 is better for the same reasons : they do n't need to pay payroll taxes ( FICA/FUTA/State taxes/insurance/etc ) , less liability and less benefits . That is why such a misclassification is an offence , and a serious one , for the employer . They wo n't admit it unless they have to , and if they have to - they will have to correct . However since its a prior year , some things may be difficult to address properly now and you may be stuck . Its not just a matter of forms . I suggest taking this to a professional consultation . Do n't take tax advice from your boss .
Phil 's answer is correct . Just to add to his response : Distributions are not taxable events -- you already paid your taxes , so you can take out $ 50k or $ 52k and the IRS is not concerned . You can simply write yourself a check for any amount you choose ! To answer your specific question : to match your K1 losses and profit exactly , you could take out $ 50k . But that might leave the business strapped for cash . One way to decide how much to take out is to use your balance sheet . Look at your retained earnings ( or just look at the business bank account balance ) , subtract however much cash you think you need to keep on hand for operations , and write yourself a check for the rest .
Part 1 Quite a few [ or rather most ] countries allow USD account . So there is no conversion . Just to illustrare ; In India its allowed to have a USD account . The funds can be transfered as USD and withdrawn as USD , the interest is in USD . There no conversion at any point in time . Typically the rates for CD on USD account was Central Bank regulated rate of 5 % , recently this was deregulated , and some banks offer around 7 % interest . Why is the rate high on USD in India ? - There is a trade deficit which means India gets less USD and has to pay More USD to buy stuff [ Oil and other essential items ] . - The balance is typically borrowed say from IMF or other countries etc. - Allowing Banks to offer high interest rate is one way to attract more USD into the country in short term . [ because somepoint in time they may take back the USD out of India ] So why is n't everyone jumping and making USD investiments in India ? - The Non-Residents who eventually plan to come back have invested in USD in India . - There is a risk of regulation changes , ie if the Central Bank / Country comes up pressure for Forex Reserves , they may make it difficut to take back the USD . IE they may impose charges / taxes or force conversion on such accounts . - The KYC norms make it difficult for Indian Bank to attract US citizens [ except Non Resident Indians ] - Certain countries would have explicit regulations to prevent Other Nationals from investing in such products as they may lead to volatility [ ie all of them suddenly pull out the funds ] - There would be no insurance to foreign nationals . Part 2 The FDIC insurance is not the reason for lower rates . Most countires have similar insurance for Bank deposits for account holdes . The reason for lower interst rate is all the Goverments [ China etc ] park the excess funds in US Treasuries because ; 1 . It is safe 2 . It is required for any international purchase 3 . It is very liquid . Now if the US Fed started giving higher interest rates to tresaury bonds say 5 % , it essentially paying more to other countries ... so its keeping the interest rates low even at 1 % there are enough people [ institutions / governemnts ] who would keep the money with US Treasury . So the US Treasury has to make some revenue from the funds kept at it ... it lends at lower interest rates to Bank ... who in turn lend it to borrowers [ both corporate and retail ] . Now if they can borrow cheaply from Fed , why would they pay more to Individual Retail on CD ? , they will pay less ; because the lending rates are low as well . Part 3 Check out the regulations
Your tax rate is 20 % for turnover below # 300000 . So deducting your expenses and all the tax your accountant thinks you need to pay is # 450 . But you can claim relief on your tax payments . Visit the <URL> website to check your options under which you can claim relief . Frankly speaking for such a low turnover you should n't have opened a limited company . Or do you expect your turnover to increase in the coming years ? If your turnover is n't going to increase any further or if there is n't going to be a substantial increase , better to go as a <URL> or an umbrella company .
Danger . The affidavit is a legal document . Understand the risk of getting caught . If you are planning on using the condo to generate income the chances that you default on the loan are higher than an owner occupied property . That is why they demand more down payment ( 20 % + ) and charge a higher rate . The document is n't about making sure you spend 183 + nights a year in the property , it is making sure that it is n't a business , and you are n't letting a 3rd party live in the property . If you within the first year tell the mortgage company to send the bill to a new address , or you change how the property is insured , they will suspect that it is now a rental property . What can they do ? Undo the loan ; ask for penalty fee ; limit your ability to get a mortgage in the future ; or a percentage of the profits How likely is it ? The exact penalty will be in the packet of documents you receive . It will depend on which government agency is involved in the loan , and the lenders plan to sell it on the secondary market . It can also depend on the program involved in the sale of the property . HUD and sister agencies lock out investors during the initial selling period , They do n't want somebody to represent themselves as homeowner , but is actually an investor . Note : some local governments are interested not just in non-investors but in properties being occupied . Therefore they may offer tax discounts to residents living in their homes . Then they will be looking at the number of nights that you occupy the house in a year . If they detect that you are n't really a resident living in the house , that has tax penalties . Suggestion : If you do n't want to wait a year buy the condo and let the loan officer know what your plan is . You will have to meet the down payment and interest rate requirements for an investment property . Your question implies that you will have enough money to pay the required 20 % down payment . Then when you are ready buy the bigger house and move in . If you try and buy the condo with a non-investment loan you will have to wait a year . If you try and pay cash now , and then get a home equity loan later you will have to admit it is a rental . And still have to meet the investor requirements .
The money is paid to investors who bought those mortgage backed securities . The company that services those loans is responsible for making sure the money is paid to the right investors
how much taxes would I pay on my income from the rent they would pay me ? The same as on any other income . California does n't have any special taxes for rental/passive income . Bothe CA and the Federal tax laws do have special treatment , but it is for losses from rental . Income is considered unearned regular income and is taxed at regular brackets . Would I be able to deduct the cost of the mortgage from the rental income ? The cost of mortgage , yes . I.e. : the interest you pay . Similarly you can deduct any other expense needed to maintain the property . This is assuming you 're renting it out at FMV . If not , would I pay the ordinary income tax on that income ? In particular , would I pay CA income tax on it , even though the property would be in WA ? Yes . Do n't know how WA taxes rental income , but since you are a California tax resident - you will definitely be taxed by California on this , as part of your worldwide income .
There 's a very simple way to answer this , even before you start TurboTax : Go to each State 's tax authority website ( for example , <URL> ) Look for a section that answers the question " Do I need to file ? " ( for example , <URL> ) Read the information there and decide whether or not you have to file for that particular state . As far as I know , most states have separate instructions for residents , non-residents , and part-year residents . Yes , it is possible that you may end up filing in quite a few states . I would do this before you buy the state modules in TurboTax because it may not be worth paying for them if you do n't need to file .
Since from the question it seems that you 're talking about the US taxation , I 'll assume that . You can definitely continue filing jointly . Being members of a partnership has no bearing on how you file your own tax return . The partnership will distribute K-1 to each of you separately , but you 'll report both of them on the same return .
Income sourced to where the service was performed , so if you did n't write the article in the US - the income is not sourced to the US . The legal definition is in the <URL> .
<URL> provides a similar service ( i.e. scheduled buying of a select list of stocks and ETFs in dollar amounts ) . Price points are a bit higher , as expected . I used to have an account with them and the service was excellent .
The US mint produces several gold coins . The two that are produced each year are the American Buffalo , which is 24k gold , and the ( much older ) American Gold Eagle , which is 22k . Both coins are bullion coins minted in specific fraction of Troy ounces ( 1 oz to 1/10 oz ) , although they also bear a face value , which is much lower than their metal value . The mint produces these bullion coins in normal finish , and distribute them from a series of dealers . There are many large sellers of gold in the US , and they are generally competitive and reliable as long as you stick to those bullion ( and not rare , antique , or so called investment grade ) coins . Examples include Kitco , Blanchard , and Apmex . The mint also strikes these coins in special proof , reverse proof , etc finish for collectors . It sells these coins both directly and through its network of retailers . Those coins are sold at a high premium over melt value , and are a very dicey proposition from an investment return standpoint . The US mint also produces a variety of commemorative coins , some of which are minted in gold and silver . These gold coins are typically 22k , and contrary to the bullion coins above , they are minted in weights that mimic those of the old , pre-1929 circulation gold coins . They are not simple fraction of Troy ounces . Here is an example of a commemorative for 2011 : - <URL> - <URL>
I suspect @SpehroPefhany is correct and that your bank will cash a check from the US Department of the Treasury . Especially since they 're the same ones who guarantee the U.S. Dollar . They may hold the funds until the check clears , but I think you 'll have good luck going through your bank . Of course , fees and exchange rate are a factor . Consider browsing the IRS and US Treasury Department websites for suggestions/FAQs . I suggest you line up a way to cash it , and make sure there 's enough left after fees and exchange rate and postage to get the check that the whole process is worth it , all before you ask it to be shipped to you . If there 's no way to do it through your bank , through a money exchange business ( those at the airport come to mind ) or through your government ( postal bank ? ) , and the check is enough that you 're willing to go through some trouble , then you should look into assigning power of attorney for this purpose . I do n't know if it is possible , but it might be worth looking into . Look for US based banks in your area .
As an NRI , you are still liable to pay taxes on certain incomes earned in India , like the interest on Savings accounts / rent received from property / capital gains on shares / etc. . It is advisable to file a NIL return in India . The forms are same as one you fill for normal returns . You just have to declare the right source of income and show zero taxes [ if within the exempt bracket ] . There are quite a few online services including <URL> As Dilip has mentioned in comments , US taxes on your global income , hence it would be advisable to declare the interest income in India to the IRS . The Double tax avoidance treaty would help you avoid being taxed twice , however you would still pay the max rate of tax .
I 'm not sure where you live but in most places there is one , and only one , owner of a fence . Where one person 's property ends the other person 's property begins . Usually there is no " common " property . Therefore , the fence is located on one of the neighbor 's property who will be responsible for the fence . If the other neighbor damaged the fence , however , that neighbor may be held responsible for repairing the fence .
Nothing happens . A bank is a business ; your relationship with the bank does n't change because your visa or immigration status changes . Money held in the account is still held in the account . Interest paid on the account is still taxable . And so on . If the account is inactive long enough , abandoned account rules may apply , but that still has nothing to do with your status .
No , you should certify your correct tax status when you open a bank account . I have never been asked to provide any proof of address , and I 've opened several bank accounts . What you need to do is probably to shop around and consider opening in person in the branch and not online .
The value of the fund and the change in that value is going to be related mostly to the contents of the fund . All the two versions are doing is basically allowing you to see a price both after and before exchange rates are taken into account . If it 's a US Index fund , investing in US stocks , then only a Canadian investor is likely to benefit or suffer from currency exchange rate changes . All a US investor would be doing is paying exchange rate fee 's to their bank to change your money into CN$ Or the reverse if you live in Canada and buy the US version For the Canadian investor this is effectively a ' international ' fund of sorts , and currency risk is a part of that . As you will note that the fund has currently had a stronger return due to a weak Loonie , and that information is presented in BOTH versions of the fund , you could expect that for you , if the Loonie gets stronger , the performance ( for you ) of that fund to go down , no matter which version you invest in . A Canadian investor who expects the Loonie to get stronger would be want to be investing in international instruments only to the extent they expected the return to outpace the changes in currency values , relative to what they could get returnwise in a domestic investment .
You 're in an area where a professional advice is a must . It is not only the taxes and reporting , but also an issue of international taxation . US is very aggressive towards holdings in foreign lands . The tax rates for income from foreign corporations are higher than domestic , with less available deductions and credits , and less ability to avoid double taxation . Get a good EA/CPA licensed in your state , who 's proficient in working with Canadians and the US-Canadian tax treaty . Remember , that after reporting all the taxes - there are additional forms for you to file : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and possibly a bunch of others ( form <URL> specific for Canadians , for example ) . Welcome to the US . You 're a foreigner , its a crime here . As a punishment , you 'll have to author a small book ( not kidding , my tax return was close to 100 pages at some point , more than Mitt Romney 's , and I 'm no millionaire ... ) every year .
end question
start question
Is there a kind of financial advisor for stock investors ? How to find a good one ?
I 'm a retired stockbroker/Registered Investment Advisor . My initial discussions with prospects never had a fee . Restricted stock is unsaleable without specific permission from the issuing company , and typically involves time specifc periods when stock can be sold and/or amounts of stock that can be sold . Not for DIY . Financial planners may be able to assist you , if they are conversant in restricted stock , though that 's not a common situation for most clients . Any stockbroker at a major firm ( Merrill Lynch , UBS , Royal Bank of Canada , Morgan Stanley , JP Morgan , etc. ) will be knowledgeable and advise you ( w/o charge ) how to trade the stock . Always talk to more than one firm , and do n't be in a hurry . If you feel comfortable with the discussion , you can pursue a deeper relationship . In my professional experience , clients valued service , accessibility , knowledge . Price was way down on the list ; many of my clients were not wealthy people - they just needed help navigating a very confusing ( and necessary ) part of their lives . Good luck .
Insurance on something that you could replace out of your own pocket is almost always not worth it . If you have the discipline to put $ 1,000 in a savings account , and only use that to replace the phone , you 'll be ahead , plus you 'll also get to pocket the interest .
You ca n't actually transfer shares directly unless they were obtained as part of an employee share scheme - see the answers to questions 19 and 20 on this page : <URL> Q. Can I put shares from my employee share scheme into my ISA ? A . You can transfer any shares you get from an HMRC approved SAYE share option scheme run by your employer ( that is , a savings related share option - ' Sharesave ' ( or profit sharing scheme ) a Share Incentive Plan into a stocks and shares component of an ISA without having to pay Capital Gains Tax - provided your ISA manager agrees to take them . The value of the shares at the date of transfer counts towards the annual limit . This means you can transfer up to # 11,520 worth of shares in the tax year 2013-14 ( assuming that you make no other subscriptions to ISAs , in those years ) . You must transfer the shares within 90 days from the day they cease to be subject to the Plan , or ( for approved SAYE share option schemes ) 90 days of the exercise of option date . Your employer should be able to tell you more . Q. Can I put windfall or inherited shares in my ISA ? A. No . You can only transfer shares you own into an ISA if they have come from an employee share scheme . Otherwise , the ISA manager must purchase shares on the open market . The situation is the same if you have shares that you have inherited . You are not able to transfer them into an ISA .
I use <URL> . It 's a bit more like Quickbooks than plain Quicken , but it 's not all that complicated . Probably the most difficult part is understanding the idea of income accounts . Benefits : freely available on Windows , OSX and Linux open source online transaction pull from supported banks / other institutions , with bayesian transaction matching to eliminate duplicates supports multiple currencies , and most any ticker symbol you can imagine scheduled transactions can help you plan expenses and income before they occur the file format is either xml , sqlite or SQL database ( mysql , postgres ) , so the programmatically inclined can a budget sheet and historical estimator ( But really i just prefer scheduled transactions and a spreadsheet ) For short term planning , I use scheduled transactions . If I 'm spending more than I have , it 'll show up here . Every paycheck and dollar spent or invested is recorded with the exact date I anticipate it will happen , 30 days in advance . If that would overdraw my checking account , the Future Minimum Balance field will go negative and red . This lets me move float to higher interest savings and retirement funds , and avoids overdraft fees or other mishaps . By looking 30 days ahead in detail , I have enough time to transfer from illiquid assets . For longer term planning , I keep a spreadsheet around that plans out annual expenses . If I 'm spending more than I earn , it shows up here . I estimate everything : expenses , savings , taxes , and income . I need this because I have a lot of expenses that are far less frequent than monthly or paycheck-ly . The beauty of it is that once I 've got it in place , I can duplicate the sheet and consider tweaks for say taking a new job or moving , or even just changing an insurance plan ( probably less relevant for those with access to NHS ) . Especially when moving to take a new job , it 's not as straightforward as comparing salaries , and thus having a document for the status quo to start from lets you focus on the parts that changed .
There are a lot of things you can do to get a better tenant . This answer relates specifically for Sydney Australia . Regarding the Application Form : Name &amp; contact details Employment details including length of work , name &amp; contact details of HR manager Current and previous addresses and rents paid , and lengths of time at these addresses Landlord/Real estate details for each place listed on form whether they smoke any pets ( indoor or outdoor ) Emergency contact detail ( in case of emergency ) Get them to sign the bottom of the form below a statement which authorises you to ask questions about them ( this can be used if you need to talk to their real estate agent or their employer about them - sometimes they will not talk to you unless you have the applicant 's consent ) . Regarding Information for the applicant to provide you : Rental history - at least 6 months Rental Ledger from real estate agent or copy of their bank statement if they rent privately and pay rent by direct debit ( I usually do not accept rental receipts from a private landlord as anyone can buy a a receipt book and fill it out ) . Last 3 pay slips as a minimum , or proof of regular income if they are self employed . 100 point ID check If renting through a private landlord - copy of water rates or council rates to confirm details of landlord ( they could just pretend a friend of theirs is the landlord ) . copy of any welfare payments they might receive . any references ( mainly from previous real estate agents or landlords ) . Note this is a much lower priority than their rental history . Regarding Selection Criteria : The 3 top priorities are : Rental history - look for someone always paying on time ( this is my number one criteria ) - someone who has missed payments or paid late in the past is more likely to do it in the future . Cleanliness of the tenant - this can be quite hard to check since they have not lived in your place yet , so what I do is tell them that if we short list them then we go to their current home to see how they live and how clean they are . They do n't have to accept , but if they do n't then they may be hiding something . We find most good tenants have no problems letting us in . We have usually checked everything else by this stage so if we are happy we usually sign the lease whilst at their place . Current employment , stability of employment and income level . Other things you can check : Always confirm with the real estate or landlord regarding the rental history they have given you . We have had someone in the past who had forged their rental ledger , we were about to go with them , but a last check with their real estate agent confirmed that the ledger they gave us was not provided by the agent . They faxed us the correct ledger which was very different . This one check saved us a potential big problem . We usually also screen people when they ring up to see if they have the required information . If they do n't then we do not accept an application from them and save our time having to show bad tenants the property . Instead of having 20 to 30 people during a showing we might have 2 or 3 . This gives us time to talk with each applicant and get to know them a bit . You can learn a lot about a person just by talking to them . But you always do your checks to confirm everything . Also , be wary of people with no rental history ; we usually do not accept them , including home owners who are selling their home . If you 're asking , surly if they are home owners they should take care of your property . Not always the case . If someone has never rented before they may be renting for the short term before they buy again . If they are in a house they think is temporary , do you think they will treat it the same as a house they treat as their own ? Usually not . There are exceptions , but do you want to take the risk . That is why we have the policy of not accepting an application if they have no rental history - again this is the number one priority - a good rental history , as in this case history will usually repeat itself . It is your asset and you need to do everything in your power to protect it . A good tenant is the difference between a great asset that can provide for you now into your future and a head-ache you want to get rid of . Also , one thing I forgot to include is that we allow outdoor pets ( dogs and cats ) only , and if they do have pets there is usually an additional $ 10 per week added onto the rent ( we include this in our advertising ) . Small fish in a fish tank is an exception . We charge the extra $ 10 per week in rent because the pets can add to the wear and tear on the property .
In such a situation , is it really safe to give financial info to a person who does not encrypt it ? Encryption only helps to an extent . i.e. during transmission of data or during brute force makes it more difficult to get the real data . However you concern is more of staff using this data , which encryption will not help much as they would be able to decrypt and see the data . In what ways could it be misused ? This depends on the type of data . The financial data can be used to hack into your accounts if other bits of info are known . i.e. most of the times on Telephone requests ; say putting card on hold , requesting balance on account , etc ; only your address , mother maiden name , last few transaction details are asked . Some critical requests need more ID proofs ; so generally not of concern . The other misuse would be selling this to marketing companies , so that you can be bombarded with sales pitch for anything and everything . The PAN and other ID documents are becoming more prone to mis-use . i.e. give a copy of PAN to open fraudulent accounts etc. . A good practise would be to mark every copy of ID proof you give with the purpose as to why its given and a date . This would make the ID proof stale to an extent . If she is not going to encrypt it , should I ask her to delete all my old data and then create a new profile for my communication with her ; the new profile not being my name , but a fake name ? The regulations would not allow her to create fake accounts and may lead to issues and as such any recognised financial advisor would not allow this to be done . Quite a few countries have regulations for financial advisor 's that need to be adhered to .
Much like if you had a large capital gain with no withholding , you should determine if you 'll be at risk of an <URL> . Generally this means you end up owing more than $ 1000 at tax filing time , though there are some safe harbors . Unfortunately that is more difficult with AMT and its interplay with the regular income tax system . But you should be able to estimate how much extra you 'll owe . With that information , you have two options . You can either pay estimated taxes , or if you have a W-2 job , just adjust your withholding . Keep in mind if you 're exercising now , the penalty should be pretty minimal since it 's only for part of the year , and interest rates are low .
Yes it is possible , as long as the broker you use allows conditional orders . I use CMC Markets in Australia , and they allow free conditional orders either when initially placing a buy order or after already buying a stock . See the Place New Order box below : Once you have selected a stock to buy , the number of shares you want to buy and at what price you can place up to 3 conditional orders . The first condition is a " Place order if ... " conditional order . Here you can place a condition that your buy order will only be placed onto the market if that condition is met first . Say the stock last traded at $ 9.80 and you only want to place your order the next day if the stock price moves above the current resistance at $ 10.00 . So you would Place order if Price is at or above $ 10.00 . So if the next day the price moves up to $ 10 or above your order will be placed onto the market . The second condition is a " Stop loss " conditional order . Here you place the price you want to sell at if the price drops to or past your stop loss price . It will only be placed on to the market if your buy order gets traded . So if you wanted to place your stop loss at $ 9.00 , you would type in 9.00 in the box after " If at or below ? " and select if you want a limit or market order . The third condition is a " Take profit " conditional order . This allows you to take profits if the stock reaches a certain price . Say you wanted to take profits at 50 % , that is if the price reached $ 15.00 . So you would type in 15.00 in the box after " If at or above ? " and again select if you want a limit or market order . These conditional orders can all be placed at the time you enter your buy order and can be edited or deleted at any time . The broker you use may have a different process for entering conditional orders , and some brokers may have many more conditional orders than these three , so investigate what is out there and if you are confused in how to use the orders with your broker , simply ask them for a demonstration in how to use them .
I dont know if this data is available for the 1980s , but <URL> to an old question of mine discusses how you can pull stock related information from google or yahoo finance over a certain period of time . You could do this in excel or google spreadsheet and see if you could get the data you 're looking for . Quote from old post : Google Docs spreadsheets have a function for filling in stock and fund prices . You can use that data to graph ( fund1 / fund2 ) over some time period .
I assume you 're referring to foreign exchange trading ( since that 's the primary market where the word is used ) . In that case , remember that the absolute minimum trade size allowed is usually 1000 EUR/USD/GBP etc , and the " standard " trade size is 100K or 1M units . So a 1-pip move might mean only $ 0.10 profit ( or loss ) per contract for a small trader , but it could mean $ 10 - $ 100 per contract for a large ( or " normal " ) trader . I found <URL> that might explain a bit more .
mhoran mentioned PMI . One can look at a PMI encumbered loan this way : the rate on the loan is the mortgage rate for the lower 78 % of loan to value . The rest of the loan has a true rate that has to include the PMI cost . Mathematically , it 's as if you had two loans , a fixed rate , and a high priced second mortgage . If the $ 20k you need to pay down to eliminate PMI has a monthly $ 100 cost , the rate on that money should be viewed as 6 % above the mortgage rate you already pay . A credit card with too high a utization can ding your credit score short term . Regardless of total utilization . Aside from these two issues , adjust the rates for taxes , eg my 3.5 % mortgage is really 2.6 % , and stick with the plan to sort by rate to pay off . Too many expensive mistakes are made based on emotion . If you have the discipline of a mathematician go with the numbers . Keep in mind , millions ' feel ' good about a tax refund . When anyone tells you they got a big refund , they are bragging they planned poorly , lent the government money interest free , and are too ignorant to understand either point . I always respond " that 's great " and fake a smile . The debt snowball method is a cult that may provide an emotional win . No mathematician should belong to that cult .
If the market believes that the company is overstaffed , then management acknowledging the issue and resolving the problem can result in the price going up . It can also mean that external events drove the price up , and the bad news was lost in the other issues of the day . Sometimes layoffs are a sign of the company entering a long downward spiral ; in other cases it is a sign of the beginning recovery . The layoffs can also be viewed as good news if they were n't as big as some experts feared . You have to look at the exact situation to understand why news x impacts the companies price .
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
The Find window does n't have the Charge Amount field in it It 's the " Value " field . <URL>
For the same reason you wanted it when you bought it . No-one guarantees that you 'll be able to sell the stock you hold , and in fact many people get stuck with stocks they 'd like to sell , but no-one is buying . But if investors think there 's a profit potential that is not exhausted yet - they 'll want to buy the stock .
Both <URL> and the <URL> allow you to exclude $ 250,000 ( single ) or $ 500,000 ( couple ) of profit . So in your case , $ 1.35 M would be exlcluded ( basis $ 850k plus $ 500k exclusion ) , plus any amount you paid for capital improvements ( consult your tax accountant for details on that ) . Beyond that amount , the rest of the sale ( so in your case , about $ 850k ) would be subject to capital gains tax ( Federal and State ) . You 'd likely pay around 24 % to 29 % tax on the gain between the two , unless other relevant details apply .
I think something you might want to look at is a service called <URL> . They charge $ 0.25 per transaction , and are free for transactions under $ 10 .
The " D " suffix is designated for stocks that are going through a corporate reorganization and is typically applied for those stocks that is about to or just has undergone a reverse split . It typically lasts about 20 trading days ( almost a calendar month ) . In the case of MDCN ( Medican Enterprises ) is traded as MDCND for the period 20150418 until 20150514 . On 20150515 it reverted back to MDCN . It had a 10:1 reverse split with exdate 20150420 . Regarding multiple tickers - a ticker is just a point-in-time identifier . This company has had many tickers across its lifetime : TCXC TCXB TCXBD MDCN MDCND and possible XCAL and XCALE . The 5th letter suffix is detailed here : <URL>
Assuming that the will that bequeathed the money to your son did not stipulate any restrictions or set up a trust to hold the money until your son turns 25 , or something like that , I do n't think you have much choice except to put the money in a UTMA account ( which of course can be invested in whatever the trustee ( which could be you , or you and your wife jointly ) decides . Note : not a UGMA account since the money is not a gift . You also do n't have any option except to turn the account over to your son when he turns eighteen . The point is , the investment can be in anything as long as the account is registered as a UTMA account . But do remember also that your son is entitled to sue you for breach of fiduciary duty if you do n't take good care of the money , so that blowing it all in risky investments is also not a good idea . If you are worried about taxes and your son 's income being taxed at your rate , one way of deferring the issue is to buy US Savings Bonds . The interest can be deferred from taxation until the bonds are redeemed . Edit added in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comments : But a better strategy is to declare the accrued interest each year as unearned income of the child on the kiddie tax form that is part of your tax return , and pay the tax , if any , that results To ease your mind or conscience , think of the tax that you pay on your child 's behalf as a gift to your child ! In any case , there will likely not be much tax due since the first $ 950 of unearned income of a child is tax-free and the next $ 950 taxed at 10 % . Then , when the bonds are cashed in , the interest that accrued ( and was " taxed " ) in earlier years can be deducted from the interest ( cash in price minus purchase price ) that you ( or your son ) will be told is the interest that the bonds earned . Of course , if kiddie tax is not a concern ( and it should n't be , given the amount available for investment ) , an even better strategy is to set up the UTMA account ( s ) in long-term investments in low-cost index funds or ETFs ( as JoeTaxpayer suggests ) and pay the tax , if any , as it comes due .
Is there a word for that $ 20k owed ? Trade Receivables , Accounts Receivables , or just Receivables Is there a different word for that $ 30k " hypothetical " total ? Current Assets ( Includes Inventory and other short term assets )
end question
start question
Is a defensive driving course worth the money ? How much is a typical insurance discount ?
Sounds like you 've got a good approach on the cost/benefit calculation and just lack one of the variables . My own findings are confirming that information on specific insurance company defensive driving discounts are n't generally disclosed , and discounts are n't consistent across companies . Some insurance company pages I found do confirm many offer a discount , but not exactly what percentage that discount would be . Further browsing revealed : an <URL> : " they offer a 10 % discount if I take a defensive driving class " a mention from <URL> & sup1 ; that " Some insurance companies give a reduction in rates to course participants " -- meaning , other insurance companies might not ! <URL> : " Courses may also qualify the student for a discount on car insurance . " [ my emphasis ] An <URL> stating " varies [ ... ] but discounts of 5-15 % are common . " So if we told you " between zilch and 15 % " , does that satisfy or would you still be wondering ? ;-) I think you need to seek out information specific to your case . IIWY , I would call my car insurance company and ask : " If I qualified for your defensive driving discount , how much would I be paying for my policy , all else being equal ? What specific or kinds of courses would qualify me ? Online , or in-car only ? " It 's in their interest to inform you on this , since better trained policy-holders are less likely to claim . & sup1 ; Note : I do n't endorse any particular company ; this was just an example from my search results .
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
You need a budget . You need to know how much you make and how much you spend . How much you earn and what you choose to spend you money on is your choice . You have your own tolerance for risk and your own taste and style , so lifestyle and what you own is n't something that we can answer . The key to your budget is to really understand where you money goes . Maybe you are the sort of person who needs to know down to the penny , maybe you are a person who rounds off . Either way you should have some idea . <URL> and <URL> Once you know what you budget is , here are some pretty standard steps to get started . Each point is a full question in of itself , but these are to give you a place to start thinking and learning . Use your budget to spend less than you make . Use your budget to save for expensive things you want ( car , house , vacation , electronics ) Carry no consumer debt ( like credit cards ) Save up an emergency fund Save for your retirement Invest a little , spend a little just for fun . You might have other priorities like a charity or other organizations that go into your priority like . Regardless of your career path and salary , you will need a budget to understand where you money is , where it goes , and how you can reach your goals and which goals are reasonable to have .
I bought a car a few years ago . The salesman had the order , I knew the car I wanted and we had a price agreed on . When I refused the payment plan/loan , his manager came over and did a hard sell . " 99 % of buyers take the financing " was the best he could do . I told him I was going to be part of the 1 % . With rates so low , his 2 or 3 % offer was higher than my own cost of money . He went so far as to say that I could just pay it off the first month . Last , instead of accepting a personal check and letting me pick up the car after it cleared , he insisted on a bank check to start the registration process . ( This was an example of one dealer , illustrating the point . ) In other cases , for a TV , a big box store ( e.g. Best Buy ) is n't going to deal for cash , but a small privately owned " mom and pop " shop might . The fees they are charged are pretty fixed , they do n't pay a higher fee cause I get 2 % cash back , vs your mastercard that might offer less .
Usually services like Western Union or MoneyGram only give the recipient the money , not the information about who and when sent it . But you can verify with them directly . However , for legal/tax reasons , your friend might have to declare that it was a gift , and where it came from . So depending on the country of the destination you might not be able to completely " hide " from the recipient , even if the transfer service technically allows that . In any case , when you transfer the money out from the US you 'll have to provide your personal identification and information . Since the <URL> , it is impossible to transact " anonymously " ( not sure if it ever was possible in the US , actually ) .
There 's a bit of confusion here . Michael 's article you linked is focused on the issue of post-tax 401 ( k ) deposits . For those new to this , it sounds like we are talking about Roth 401 ( k ) money . Not so . The Roth IRA was introduced in 1998 , and the Roth 401 ( k ) in 2006 . Before ' 06 , people had the ability to deposit more to their 401 ( k ) than the pretax limit of $ 15,000 into the account as " after tax " deposits . My understanding is that these funds were analogous to the non-deducted IRA deposits for those outside the income limits . Michael goes on the point out that now , with the addition of Roth 401 ( k ) and Roth IRAs , there are folk with pre and post Tax 401 ( k ) funds and trying to crack them for transfer to Traditional IRA and Roth IRA may be problematic . Aside from a <URL> , there are separate accounts for the Roth 401 ( k ) and Traditional 401 ( k ) , and it 's possible for the traditional to contain post tax money , which , given the recent <URL> , should be easily addressable .
There is a thing called the consumer price index ( CPI ) There is a basket of goods that the people who keep the index basically shop for . It is much more detailed for the sake of accuracy , but bottom line is they shop for the same stuff each year . They measure the difference from year to year and that gives you a pretty good idea of inflation from a regular person point of view . <URL> But it is n't without its faults , people bicker about the methodology and what constitutes the index . <URL>
$ 400K is equity , $ 200K is principal owed on your mortgage . Cost basis is still $ 500K .
An expense is an expense . <URL> subject to some limitations , but you do n't make out by having more expenses . Higher expenses mean lower profit . Is leasing better than owning ? It depends on the car you 'd buy . If your business does n't benefit from flashiness of your car , then buying a quality used car ( a few years old at most ) would probably be a wiser decision financially . I 'd think hard about whether you really need an up-to-date car .
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
HSAs are very similar to IRAs . Any investment returns grow tax-deferred and once you reach age 59 1/2 65 , you can withdraw the funds for any purpose ( subject to ordinary income tax ) , just like a traditional IRA . If you can afford to do so , I would recommend you to pay medical expenses out-of-pocket and let the funds in your HSA accumulate and grow . In general , the best way to allocate your funds is in the following order : Contribute to a 401 ( k ) if your employer matches funds at a substantial rate Pay off high-interest debt ( 8 % of more in current environment in 2011 ) Contribute to an IRA ( traditional or Roth ) Contribute to an HSA Contribute to a 401 ( k ) without the benefit of employer matching One advantage of HSAs versus IRAs is that you do n't have to have earned income ( salary or self-employment income ) in order to contribute . If you derive income solely from rents , interest or dividends , you can contribute the maximum amount ( $ 3,050 for individuals in 2011 ) and get a full deduction from your income ( Of course , you will need to maintain a high-deductible health plan in order to qualify ) . One downside of HSAs is the lack of competitively priced providers . Wells Fargo offers HSAs for free , but only allows you to keep your funds in cash , earning a very measly interest rate , or invest them in rather mediocre and expensive Wells Fargo mutual funds . Vanguard , known for its low-fee investment options , provides HSAs through a partner company , but the account maintenance charges are still quite high . Overall , HSAs are a worthwhile option as part of your investment plan .
Do n't be afraid to shop around . Every couple of years when it 's time to renew my auto insurance I call a couple of places to see if I can get a better deal . It 's especially important to do this as you get older ( because your rates go down assuming you keep a clean driving record ) . Also as your life changes , e.g. if you get married , move , buy a home , get a new car , etc. . At 30 my rates dropped a lot . When I bought a home , I qualified for a discount by combining my home and auto insurance through the same carrier . My suggestion would be to call 3 insurance companies for quotes , all on the same day . You 'll need to be able to identify the car you 'll be insuring for the most accurate quote . Do you belong to any organizations that offer insurance discounts ? ( E.g. my college alumni association had a program with one of the larger carriers that had the best rates on auto + home that I could find . )
According to <URL> , this started out as a way to fund health insurance and unemployment insurance , and has gradually increased its scope to cover pensions . At least in part , what you can claim back from these systems is connected to what you paid into them - you ca n't just work one week and then claim 51 weeks of unemployment benefit , or a full pension - which makes them different from taxes . As well , the money collected is not supposed to go into general government revenue , but to be used only for the specific programs it funds . The UK is certainly not the only country where employees and employers send a fraction of each paycheque to the government for purposes other than income tax . Here in Canada we have Employment Insurance and Canada Pension Plan contributions as well as income tax that come off every paycheque . It 's just the way the system works - not everything that the government collects as your income is paid to you is in fact an income tax . There are advantages to all of us to keep these accounts separate - I do n't want my pension money spent on a road by someone who wants to get re-elected 20 years before my pension needs to be paid .
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
You have several issues at work . If in the next few years you have a leak in the roof that causes another insurance claim , they may decide not to cover it because they already paid you to replace the roof , and it is your fault that it was n't . That might also mean they do n't pay you for the stuff that is damaged because of the " new " leak . If you minimize the claim that may make it less likely that they will drop you in the future , or increase you rate next year . But if you do n't return the excess funds they will evaluate you on the larger claim size . Of course if they are sending the money directly to the repair company they will only pay the bill up to a maximum amount . Usually the issue has been that the repair company wants to do a larger repair . The dispute resolves around some aspect of the building code . I had a car repair that had to be increased because the roof damage was within x inches of the windshield , so the windshield had to be replaced . The insurance company eventually agreed but it slowed down the process for a couple of days because they wanted to measure it . It is possible that the insurance company has rules related to the age of the roof and the amount of damage that triggers a total replacement .
I 'd suggest you put only 20 % down if you qualify for the 80 % amount of the mortgage . Live in the house a year and see what expenses really are . Then if your non-Ret accounts are still being funded to your liking , start prepaying the mortgage if you wish . It 's great to start with a house that 's only 50 % mortgaged , but if any life change happens to you , it may be tough to borrow it back . Far easier to just take your time and not make a decision you may regret . You do n't give much detail about your retirement savings , but I 'd suggest that I 'd rather have a large mortgage and fund my retirement accounts to the maximum than to have a paid house and start the retirement account at age 35 . Some choose that option .
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
If this is your money , and if you can - if asked - prove that you legally made it , there is no limit . You pay taxes on your income , so sending it into the world is tax free . Your citizenship is not relevant for that .
It really depends on the credit reporting agency , and then on the people reading it . In this case , given the effectively small amount of the loan , so long as you are making the payments I would not be too concerned about it . What matters more in a revolving credit situation is the paying-off ; so if you make all payments on time , etc. , you are likely fine .
For a Canadian university education , an October 2009 article at <URL> says : [ ... ] The study estimates the total price tag of an undergraduate degree at a whopping $ 137,013 for students living away from home and $ 101,426 for those staying at home . [ ... ]
end question
start question
How to arrive at the fee-adjusted APR ( accounting for balance transfer fee , but not inflation ) ?
I 've never done a balance transfer but I do n't think you 'll end up owing less immediately after the transfer . If you 're transferring $ 5,000 , and the transfer fee is 2 % ( $ 100 ) , you 'd either send them a check for $ 100 to transfer the $ 5,000 , or you 'd end up with a balance of $ 5,100 immediately after the transfer . It would n't be $ 4,900 . Your effective rate will also depend on how you pay off the loan . If you pay off just the minimum amount each time it 's due , and then pay off the rest at the end of the 200 days ( or 365 days ) then you 'll pay more than if you throw a big chunk at the balance at the beginning . Let 's say that you amortize this over 12 months , and make 12 equal payments . Using <URL> , with a balance of $ 5,100 and an interest rate of 4 % , you 'd make twelve payments of $ 434.26 ( plus or minus ) and pay $ 111.12 in interest . Add this to the $ 100 fee , and your effective rate is about 4.1 % . Now , if you make twelve payments of $ 102 ( 2 % of the initial balance ) , and pay off the balance ( a little over $ 4000 ) in the 12th month , you 'll pay almost twice as much interest ( $ 198.63 ) and your effective APR will be almost 6 % .
I know this can be confusing because you tend to think of money being worth the face value . So let 's eliminate that for the sake of an example that will be easier to understand . Let 's say your friend loaned you rock worth $ 10 today . He expects you to pay him back an identical rock whenever you can . Now let 's also assume that historically the price of rocks tends to go down every year . At some point you will need to buy a rock to pay your friend back . Because they keep getting cheaper , it costs less to buy the payback rock the longer you wait . Replace a dollar with a rock in the example and you have your answer . This is known as the time value of money . In reality , this is priced into the loan ( via the interest rate ) because the lender very much understands the math going on here . Also , it is more complicated because the longer you delay payment the more interest you pay ( pebbles if you will ) so it does n't usually work to your advantage unless they underpriced the loan 's interest rate .
When you withdraw from your RRSP , you lose that contribution room and you will never get it back . Let 's say you have room to contribute a total of $ 50,000 to RRSPs . If you withdraw $ 5000 from one institution and deposit it in another , you will now have a total contribution room of $ 45,000 . This will only matter to you if you hope to max out your RRSP contributions sometime in your life , of course , but almost everyone should be aiming for this . Otherwise , you are correct . Your extra income will be mitigated by your immediate recontribution to your RRSP . Note that there are two circumstances where withdrawing from your RRSP does not reduce your contribution limit . The home-buyers plan lets you withdraw up to $ 25,000 to buy a home . You have to repay this over no more than 15 years . The second is the Lifelong Learning Plan , which lets you withdraw up to $ 20,000 ( up to $ 10,000 annually ) , to be repaid over a 10-year period . Any other withdrawals ( or failure to repay under the HBP or LLP ) will lower your RRSP contribution room . In summary , it 's almost certainly worth paying the $ 125 fee unless you are certain you will not be maxing out your RRSP contributions in your lifetime .
All of the above . There are <URL> . Generally the " people with clipboards " is the most reliable , but is also the most expensive , so some might be getting the data directly from the retailers with some <URL> for verification . The " margin of error " percentage is directly related to the method chosen .
The two factors that will hurt you the most is the age of the credit account , and your available credit to debt ratio . Removing an older account takes that account out of the equation of calculating your overall credit score , which can hurt significantly , especially if that is the only , or one of just a couple , of open credit lines you have available . Reducing your available credit will make your current debt look bigger than what it was before you closed your account . Going over a certain percentage for your debt to available credit can make you look less favorable to lenders . [ As stated above , closing a credit card does remove it from the credit utilization calculation which can raise your debt/credit ratio . It does not , however ; affect the average age of credit cards . Even closed accounts stay on your credit report for ten years and are credited toward average age of cards . When the closed credit card falls off your report , only then , will the average age of credit cards be recalculated . ] And may I suggest getting your free credit report from <URL> . It 's the only place considered ' official ' to receive your free annual credit report as told by the FTC . Going to other 3rd party sites to pull your credit report can risk your information being traded or sold . EDIT : To answer your second point , there are numerous factors that banks and creditors will consider depending on the type of card you 're applying for . The heavier the personal rewards ( cash back , flyer miles , discounts , etc. ) the bigger the stipulation . Some factors to consider are your income to debt ratio , income to available credit ratio , number of revolving lines of credit , debt to available credit ratio , available credit to debt ratio , and whether or not you have sufficient equity and/or assets to cover both your debt and available credit . They want to make sure that if you go crazy and max out all of your lines of credit , that you are capable of paying it all back in a sufficient amount of time . In other words , your volatility as a debt-consumer .
If you 're a cash-based taxpayer then you only recognize the income you 've actually received . If you 're accrual tax payer , then you recognize the income invoiced . How you deal with the missing $ 20 , if you 're accrual basis , depends on why they 're missing . If they just decided to not pay it - then it 's accounts receivable , until you either sue them to recover , or they declare bankruptcy , or you find another way to write it off ( talk to your licensed tax adviser about the legal ways to write unrecoverable debts off ) . If the fee is something you 've agreed to , then you write it down as an expense , provided they provide you with documentation and your contract supports the fee . While you do n't need to account for it if you 're cash-based , I suggest you check the legality of their actions nonetheless . Talk to your lawyer .
' Late ' is simply missing the due date . The fine print with probably say you ca n't just ignore the card for 60 days , they are just willing to play loose with the one due date . No , the report does n't get hit . But , interest is accruing . So if you were planning to pay in full , but miss the date , no penalty , but the month 's interest , say 1.5 % , will be charged . Edit - ask the bank how many days grace there is before the late payment is reported to the credit bureau , we do n't have consensus on that number here .
Typically in GnuCash , account balances that exist at the beginning of the time you 're keeping records for are balanced by entries in an Equity account " Equity : Opening Balances " , which is part of the default set of accounts created for you . This account is really just a placeholder so that everything balances , and that 's perfectly normal . So , just enter " Equity : Opening Balances " as the " other entry " when entering the first , opening balance , transaction in your Liability account for the loan . If you have not already created the liability account , then just use the " Opening Balance " tab of the New Account window to enter the initial balance as you create the account . ( Disclaimer : I have no formal knowledge of accounting ; I just use GnuCash and read the users ' mailing list . )
Since its not a rebate ( i.e. : reimbursement of money you paid to them ) , it is a taxable income . It is essentially a sign-up bonus , they have no obligation to reimburse you for anything by law . This is usually reported as interest income or MISC income on 1099 ( if its MISC - be careful to mark it properly if you prepare your own taxes , otherwise it may be added to your self-employment income ) . The $ 50 you paid as the transfer fee can be deducted as <URL> , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold .
Since you did not treat the house as a QBU , you have to use USD as your functional currency . To calculate capital gains , you need to calculate the USD value at the time of purchase using the exchange rate at the time of purchase and the USD value at the time of sale using the exchange rate at the time of sale . The capital gain / loss is then the difference between the two . This link describes it in more detail and provides some references : <URL> That link also discusses additional potential complications if you have a mortgage on the house . This link gives more detail on the court case referenced in the above link : <URL> The court cases references Rev. Rul 54-105 . This link from the IRS has some details from that ( <URL> ) : Rev. Rul . 54-105 , 1954-1 C.B. 12 , states that for purposes of determining gain , the basis and selling price of property acquired by a U.S. citizen living in a foreign country should be expressed in United States dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing as of the dates of purchase and sale of the property , respectively . The text of this implies it is for U.S. citizen is living in a foreign country , but the court case makes it clear that it also applies in your scenario ( house purchased while living abroad but now residing in the US ) : Appellants agree that the 453,374 pounds received for their residence should be translated into U.S. dollars at the $ 1.82 exchange rate prevailing at the date of sale . They argue , however , that the 343,147 pound adjusted cost basis of the residence , consisting of the 297,500 pound purchase price and the 45,647 pounds paid for capital improvements , likewise should be expressed in U.S. dollar terms as of the date of the sale . Appellants correctly state that , viewed " in the foreign currency in which it was transacted , " the purchase generated a 110,227 pound gain as of the date of the sale , which translates to approximately $ 200,000 at the $ 1.82 per pound exchange rate . ... However fair and reasonable their argument may be , it amounts to an untenable attempt to convert their " functional currency " from the U.S. dollar to the pound sterling . ... Under I.R.C. § 985 ( b ) ( 1 ) , use of a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar is restricted to qualified business units ( " QBU " s ) . ... appellants correctly assert that their residence was purchased " for a pound-denominated value " while they were " living and working in a pound-denominated economy , " ... And since appellants concede that the purchase and sale of their residence was not carried out by a QBU , the district court properly rejected their plea to treat the pound as their functional currency .
A fee note is the same as an invoice . There are VAT reasons behind issuing a fee note , but from the receivers perspective , it still needs to be paid in the same way as you 'd pay an invoice .
Devaluation is a relative term , so if you want to protect yourself against devaluation of your currency against dollars - just buy dollars . Inflation is something you can not protect yourself against because it is something that describes the purchasing power of the money . You will still need to purchase , and usually with money . A side effect of inflation is usually devaluation against other currencies . So one of the ways to deal with inflation is not to keep the money in your currency over time , and only convert from a more stable currency when you need to make purchases . Another way is to invest in something tangible that can easily be sold ( for example , jewelery and precious metals , but it has other risks ) . Re whats legal and illegal in your country - we do n't really know because you did n't tell what country that is to begin with , but the usual channels like travelers ' checks or bank transfer should work . Carrying large amounts of cash are usually either illegal or strictly regulated .
While it 's common to think of it that way - pay off the interest first , then the principal - that 's not actually how your payments work over time . It 's true of any one payment , though . Interest is earned over time . It might be added on daily , weekly , monthly , or any other frequency . For simplicity 's sake , let 's assume it is added 1/12 * ( apr ) once per month . So you have a 6 % loan , starting at $ 10,000 principal balance . That 's 0.5 % per month ( 6 % / 12 ) . So each month , you owe .005 * ( principal ) in interest . Your first month , then , you owe : You will always pay at least the interest every month . Some payment plans are called " interest-only " ; in those , you pay only that $ 50 per month , and the $ 10,000 never goes down for the interest-only period . ( Of course , eventually you have to start paying principal ... ) Any amount you pay over $ 50 per month , either as part of your payment or as extra ( and extra designated to go to principal - an important distinction ) , will lower that principal . That 's what actually pays off the loan . Since payments to principal reduce the total amount you owe , they also reduce the interest due . So a $ 100 monthly payment , with $ 50 going to interest and $ 50 to principal , would then leave you with , next month : You 'd then pay $ 100 again , with now $ 49.75 paying interest and $ 50.25 paying principal . The reason people think of this as paying interest first , is in particular with some mortgages and longer term repayment plans the far majority ( commonly 80 % , but in some cases higher ) of each payment is allocated to paying the interest on the loan . The way these plans work is that you have a fixed monthly payment for , say , 30 years - but that 's at first nearly entirely interest , because you do n't have to pay much principal off to eventually get the loan paid off . For example , to pay off that loan in 30 years , you 'd only have to pay $ 60 per month - $ 50 for interest initially and $ 10 for principal . Since that principal will slowly rise over time ( as interest slowly drops ) , you end up paying it off . ( 30 years is 360 payments , or about $ 21,600 - so you 're going to pay a lot of interest this way , of course , over 100 % interest over the life of the loan ) . Since you 're only paying $ 10 to principal each month to start with , if you add even a small amount to that payment , you pay it off far faster and pay far less interest . Add $ 15 to your payment - $ 75 instead of $ 60 - and now you 're paying $ 25 to principal instead of $ 10 , meaning you now pay it off in 18 years at that payment structure and pay only a bit over $ 16,000 in total - saving nearly half of the interest . Add $ 40 ( $ 100 per month ) and you now pay it off in closer to 10 years , and pay $ 14,000 in total . Even just add that for the first few years , and you 'll dramatically increase your payoff rate . I recommend using a mortgage payoff calculator , like <URL> which I set up with the above loan , to see how things work out . It shows you the amount going to principal and interest each year , and lets you alter the payments to see how they affect things . Here are charts of the three options , so you can see visually how your payments break down . Like above , this assumes interest is calculated and capitalized monthly ( which may be an oversimplification for your loan , but it does n't change the numbers much ) . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Bank have their own Capital , Deposits from Depositors and lend money to Borrowers . In a liquidity problem , it is typically that either the Borrowers are taking time to repay [ they are not yet defaulters ] or there is more pressure on withdrawals from Depositors or there is a short term of mismatch between deposits and loans ... in all these valid scenarios FED does lend out the banks to met these short terms obligations . Banks fail when the losses are actually booked in comparison to the overall Capital or loss would materialize ... for example the Mortgage crisis in US meant that quite a few Banks the actual loss had materialized or would have any ways materialized . In such situations the short term leading does not help and they would burn it out anyways as the borrowers are not paying back any time soon ...
In Minnesota , based on the <URL> , I believe that anything that is deductible for federal income taxes is deductible for the Minnesota State income tax . What is federal taxable income ( FTI ) ? Federal taxable income is the tax base used to calculate federal income tax liability . It is also the starting point for calculating Minnesota taxable income , the tax base used to calculate Minnesota income tax liability . Federal taxable income equals federal adjusted gross income ( FAGI ) after deductions and exemptions . Specifically , these are excluded ( bold added by myself ) : What kinds of income are excluded from FAGI ? FAGI excludes : deductible IRA , SEP , and SIMPLE contributions ; nontaxable employee fringe benefits ; student loan interest payments ; Health Savings Account contributions and investment income ; moving expenses ; one-half of self-employment tax ; health insurance premiums ( for self-employed taxpayers only ) ; penalty on early withdrawal of savings ; alimony paid by the taxpayer ; for tax year 2008 only , the first $ 500 of property taxes paid by standard deduction filers ( $ 1,000 for married joint filers ) ; and , through tax year 2009 , $ 250 of teacher classroom expenses and $ 4,000 of tuition expenses for higher education . FAGI does not exclude child support paid by the taxpayer . And finally the key statements : What itemized deductions are allowed ? Itemized deductions are allowed for the following : Payments of state and local property taxes and income taxes Mortgage interest Charitable contributions Medical expenses in excess of 7.5 percent of income Casualty and theft losses in excess of 10 percent of income Job expenses and miscellaneous expenses ( most only allowed in excess of 2 percent of income ) Obviously this is n't foolproof , as tax law always has " exceptions " but this is the best answer I 've found so far .
You should include your RRSP on the balance sheet ( in a way that makes it clear that you ca n't access the money easily ) , and include the " fake " asset as part of that . As a debt owed to it that it can reasonably expect to be repaid , it does indeed form an asset of the RRSP so it 's not realy fake at all .
Sale of a stock creates a capital gain . It can be offset with losses , up to $ 3000 more than the gains . It can be deferred when held within a retirement account . When you gift appreciated stock , the basis follows . So when I gifted my daughter 's trust shares , there was still tax due upon sale . The kiddy tax helped reduce but not eliminate it . And there was no quotes around ownership . The money is gone , her account is for college . No 1031 exchange exists for stock .
Aside from asking why you chose a fund that has an .80 % expense , I see no issue with frequent deposits . If this is actually being treated as a retirement account , you should make sure it fits into your overall asset allocation goals .
If you are looking at domestic transfers , all Banks hold accounts with the Central Bank [ Reserve Bank ] , in US the Central Bank is called Federal Reserve . The money from account of Bank of America held with Fed is debited and the account of Citi held with Fed is credited .
There is a thing called the consumer price index ( CPI ) There is a basket of goods that the people who keep the index basically shop for . It is much more detailed for the sake of accuracy , but bottom line is they shop for the same stuff each year . They measure the difference from year to year and that gives you a pretty good idea of inflation from a regular person point of view . <URL> But it is n't without its faults , people bicker about the methodology and what constitutes the index . <URL>
end question
start question
After obtaining an American Express Centurion card , do I have to maintain a level of spending to keep it ?
The <URL> does not explicitly specify a minimum spending requirement . It does though , have the following catch-all clause for closing the account : We may : • cancel your Account , • suspend the ability to make charges , • cancel or suspend any feature on your Account , and • notify merchants that your Account has been cancelled or suspended . If we do any of these , you must still pay us for all charges under the terms of this Agreement . We may do any of these things at our discretion , even if you pay on time and your Account is not in default . If your Account is cancelled , you must destroy your cards . We may agree to reinstate your Account after a cancellation . If we do this , we may : • reinstate any additional cards issued on your Account , • charge you any applicable annual fees , and • charge you a fee for reinstating the Account . One would suspect that American Express would happily collect the fee from anyone who holds the card , but is not using it ( in any way ) . Someone , though , that is n't spending the expected amount of money , but is availing themselves of the 24 hour concierge service , etc. , would probably find their privileges revoked and/or their card canceled .
Short answer : it 's complicated . The UK govt pages on foreign income are probably your best starting point : <URL> As you can see , it depends on your precise residence status here . ( There is a tax treaty between the UK and the US so you would n't be double taxed on the income either way . But there might still be reporting obligations ) .
If possible , I would open a Canadian bank account with a bank such as TD Canada Trust . You can then have your payments wired into that account without incurring costs on receipt . They also allow access to their US ATM network via TD Bank without additional costs . So you could use the American Affiliate to pull the funds out via a US teller while only bearing the cost of currency conversion . If that option ca n't work then the best route would be to choose a US bank account that does n't charge for incoming wire transfers and request that the money be wired to your account ( you 'll still get charged the conversion rate when the wire is in CAD and the account is in USD ) .
Put a freeze on your credit Check your credit report from one bureau once every 4 months via annualcreditreport.com . The service is free and you can get only one report from a bureau each year , hence the spacing out Check your credit regularly from another free service CreditKarma.com A way to <URL> All these are online services and can be checked from outside the country . ( Do n't check them from a public computer though ! )
I 'm just began playing in the stock market . I assume you mean that you 're not using real money , but rather you have an account with a stock simulator like <URL> . I am hopeful that 's the case due to the high level of risk involved in short selling like you 're describing . Here is <URL> about short selling that expands a bit on that point . To learn much more about the ins and outs of short selling I will point again to Investopedia . I swear I do n't work for them , but they do have a great <URL> . When you short sell a stock you are borrowing the stock from your broker . ( The broker typically uses stock held by one or more of his clients to cover the loan . ) Since it 's basically a loan you pay interest . Of course the longer you hold it the more interest you pay . Also , as Joe mentioned there are scenarios in which you may be forced to buy the stock ( at a higher price than you sold it ) . This tends to happen when the stock price is going against the short sell ( i.e. you lose money ) . Finally , did anyone mention that the potential losses in a short sell are infinite ?
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
From the page you referenced , first click the link <URL> . There you 'll find the calculation itself , but not the percentage rate . Then from that page , near the bottom , click the link <URL> . It 's almost the same title as the prior page , so a little confusing , but that pluralized version has the data you were looking for . Partial quote : The same rates are applied across Canada , except in the province of Quebec . That province has a different set of rates because they administer their own Parental Insurance Plan . In particular , self-employed workers in Quebec can opt into QPIP ( even if they would n't qualify to participate in EI ) and potentially collect parental benefits . Typical non-self-employed workers in Quebec pay into both EI ( at the reduced rates for Quebec ) as well as QPIP .
You do n't need to notify the IRS of new members , the IRS does n't care ( at this stage ) . What you do need , if you have a EIN for a single-member LLC , is <URL> since your LLC is now a partnership ( a different entity , from IRS perspective ) . From now on , you 'll need to file form 1065 with the IRS in case of business related income , on which you will declare the membership distribution interests on Schedules K-1 for each member .
I think something you might want to look at is a service called <URL> . They charge $ 0.25 per transaction , and are free for transactions under $ 10 .
Amazon will not credit any different card . They can not know that the different card number is in fact a replacement for the old one you used . Your card issuer , however , can . If receive the refund form Amazon , and can transfer it to the new card . However , you need to talk to them and ask them if and how will they do that . They may decide to apply it to the fraudulent transactions ' balance instead of giving it to you , to reduce their losses , so you need to talk to them beforehand and make sure that since the refund is for the purchase made before the card was cancelled , they will transfer it to the new card with all the rest of the information . Another option is to request a refund to your Amazon account as a gift card balance for further purchases . I know that many retail shops will gladly give you a gift card instead of the cash/credit refund , so it may be worth your while to check with Amazon if they do that too .
Just looking at the production cost would n't be anywhere near enough , but I think you are looking at " fundamental analysis " . With fundamental analysis you try to estimate the actual value of a company , compare it to share prices , and buy shares where the fundamental value is higher than the share price , assuming that the market will eventually figure out that the shares are worth more , and then the share price goes up . With " technical analysis " you do n't care what the company is worth , you just look at how the share prices has moved in the past and predict future share prices from that .
I would say yes : it 's worth building additional retirement savings on top of a <URL> ( plans that pay set annual income ) . Here are a couple of reasons : Do n't put all your eggs in one basket . While <URL> is probably in good shape , things can and do happen to pension plans . While there is a provincial system in place to guarantee some of your pension income ( $ 1000/mo ) if your plan goes bust , your benefits are not 100 % guaranteed . Defined benefit pension plans are designed to provide recurring annual income , like your paycheck when you are employed . You ca n't " take more out " from your defined benefit pension plan when an emergency comes up . Whereas , your RRSP ( and eventually RRIF , in retirement ) are accounts from which you can take out extra in any given year , if necessary . That being said , Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) wo n't let you save as much in your RRSP as other people who do n't have pension plans : Normally , individuals in Canada are entitled to save 18 % of their earned income , up to a limit ( $ 21000 in 2009 ) in an RRSP each year . However , to level the playing field , individuals who are in a pension plan get a " Pension Adjustment " ( PA ) number on their T4 which reduces their available RRSP contribution room . Otherwise , they 'd be able to tax-shelter more income for retirement than others . So , I would suggest if you have the RRSP room , consider using it . I 'd also suggest you look at a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , especially if you do n't have much RRSP room due to the pension adjustment . If you 're not sure whether to use an RRSP or a TFSA , <URL> .
There is no central government signature database . ( at least not in the US , and at least not yet ) For debit and credit card transactions , the merchant may check the signature on your reciept against the signature on back of the card . This is intended to verify that you did n't steal the card . So , if you want to change the signature on the back of the card , all you need to do is get a new card and re-sign it . Your card has an expiration date . When that happens , you will get a new card to re-sign . If your card expires soon , you can just wait . If you are impatient , you can call your bank and ask for a new card . If they give you a lot of grief about issuing a new card ( it is an unusual request ) , you can tell them you lost your card and need a new one . In that case they will typically disable the old card and issue a new one with a new account number . Note that if you want to change how you sign your name , there are some other places you should also update : All of your other debit and credit cards Your bank should have a " signature card " on file , which they use periodically to check the signature of your checks and endorsed deposits . You should have filled out a signature card when you opened your account . I believe most banks will let you fill out a new signature card , although you will probably have to show multiple forms of ID . ( Had to do this after my wife changed her name when we got married . ) Worst case , you can close your account and move to a new bank . The signature on your driver 's license . When signing a legal document , someone may ask to see your driver 's license to check it against the document . If you start signing your name differently , this may be an issue . So , you may need a new driver 's license issued . Call your local DMV . Also , keep in mind that people 's signatures naturally drift over time . This fact is generally understood and accepted by people who check signatures .
Some things that most financial authors acknowledge is that FICO continually upgrades its algorithm for determining your credit score , they are really good at it , and they are continuing to get better . The article mentioned by Chuck says that it was last updated in 4/2013 . Most assuredly FICO has tweaked its algorithm a few times since the article was last updated . From observation it seems that when an author informs the public of a method to game their FICO score , the engineers take steps to prevent inaccurate scores . An example of this is to keep your accounts open after they are paid off . For myself , I found that behavior is not a necessary part of achieving or maintaining a high credit score . The bottom line is that short term fluctuations should not concern you . By paying your bills you will get a good credit score . A credit score does not in and of itself indicate financial success , rather a balance sheet does . My advice would be to do a budget ( seems like you have that done well ) , pay your bills ( ditto ) , and focus on how you can get more into investments ( improve here ) . The credit score will take care of itself .
No . Ca n't understand why would you even think about it . The only thing to consider is the early sales fee , if its a NTF fund . Capital gains in the IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all , so there 's no difference whether you hold it more than a year or not .
Get your jewelery appraised . ( Do n't let whoever does the appraisal be the same person whom you would sell it to . ) Logically jewelery must be worthy more than the raw gold that makes it up because somebody took the time to design patterns and do specialty craft to the metal .
If you open a brokerage account , it 's certain that at the END of the calendar year a 1099-INT or 1099-DIV or related tax document will likely be sent to the IRS . What happens after that point is unknown . If you are asking if you will get " caught " by opening a brokerage account , no one here can answer that question . Based on the change in banking/securities laws after 9/11 there are many more reporting burdens that the brokerages and banks follow . If you are a US citizen , even if you are living abroad , as you already know <URL> ( even though most likely you will owe no tax ) . Whether you open a brokerage account or not , it wo n't change that obligation . The obligation is born out of your citizenship , not your activities in the US .
I found the answer to what you 're looking for in the <URL> . Refer specifically to the question <URL> . Quote : We take the extra step to confirm your card so that we can verify that the card is valid and that you are the card owner . To confirm your card , we 'll charge $ 1.95 to it . After the card is confirmed , we 'll refund the amount to your PayPal balance . Here are amounts for cards in other countries : $ 2.45 CAD $ 1.50 EUR 1.00 GBP 200 JPY 2.00 AUD 3.00 NZD 3.00 CHF 15.00 HKD 15.00 SEK 12.50 DKK 6.50 PLN 15.00 NOK 400.00 HUF 50.00 CZK 4.00 BRL 10.00 MYR 20.00 MXN 8.00 ILS 100.00 PHP 70.00 TWD 70.00 THB If we ca n't determine or do n't support your card 's currency , we charge $ 1.95 USD to the card . ( Refer directly to PayPal for potentially more up-to-date information . )
Much like if you had a large capital gain with no withholding , you should determine if you 'll be at risk of an <URL> . Generally this means you end up owing more than $ 1000 at tax filing time , though there are some safe harbors . Unfortunately that is more difficult with AMT and its interplay with the regular income tax system . But you should be able to estimate how much extra you 'll owe . With that information , you have two options . You can either pay estimated taxes , or if you have a W-2 job , just adjust your withholding . Keep in mind if you 're exercising now , the penalty should be pretty minimal since it 's only for part of the year , and interest rates are low .
end question
start question
How should I use the Volatility Index ?
Read <URL> . The VIX is an index and ca n't be traded directly . Similar to the fact that you ca n't really buy the S&amp;P index , you either try to replicate it yourself , or buy an ETF . The VIX ETFs , per this article , do n't correlate 100 % to the VIX itself . Not to be snarky , but specific to your question " how this index is best used by an individual , average investor " the answer is " it 's not . " The idea that you can buy and sell such a derivative with an eye toward hedging your average portfolio is pretty ambitious and would probably cost you in the end while not providing the insurance you believe you are getting . If you have a sufficiently large portfolio , broad market Put options would get you what you seek , but still , at a cost . The truly average investor needs to use asset allocation as a means to tune their overall risk , long term .
These cards with added benefits often come with an annual fee , so you 're right that it 's worth understanding specific features ( and requirements ) for your own card 's services , and taking advantage of them when appropriate . As far as the " Roadside Dispatch " service goes , one of my own credit cards offers a similar benefit . Using a label maker , I printed a label reading : " Roadside assistance : 1-800-xxx-xxxx " , with the roadside assistance service 's phone number on it . I stuck that to the back of the credit card , because : First , frequently seeing that label on the back of my card reminds me I have access to the service . I 'm also reminded that both the card &amp; cardholder ( me ) need to be present to take advantage of the service , no matter which car is in trouble . Once , I called to get my mom-in-law 's car a free tow , when I happened to be around and her car was having trouble . ( Familiarize yourself with how your service would operate . ) Second , the phone number is there when I need it . That is , I would n't have to make two calls , one to cardmember services to first find out the roadside assistance number , and then to the service . This may sound trivial , but trust me , you do n't want to be waiting on hold for cardmember services when you 're at the side of the road with a mobile phone you forgot to fully charge the night before !
It will impact your credit score , but typically very minor - paying one bill late is much worse . It reduces your average credit card age , which is a minor contributor to credit score . The disadvantages are : you are giving them your address and name , and implicit permission to spam you with mail , email , etc. for the next years ; you can only do it once ( it 's typically in the fine print - new customers only ) it 's a lot of form filling and hassle Yes , you make 50 $ , and it 's not a bad hourly rate . But except if you really need that money , it 's not worth the effort .
Wells Fargo uses a service called <URL> to do this transfer without an account number . This is the same service Bank of America uses , so when you configured your account to be linked to clearXchange , Wells Fargo customers can use it the same way Bank of America customers can . This <URL> . Since your bank is a member , they 've integrated the service <URL> : If your bank is a clearXchange member , you will need to use your current online or mobile banking service to send and receive payments . If you had n't previously configured it through BofA , you 'd have been taken to their site to register an account in order to receive the money , it seems . They explicitly point out <URL> that they will automatically deposit any money you receive through their service without your having to " accept " the payment like you would from other P2P pay services . If you do n't want to use this service anymore , I suggest contacting your bank , but if they ca n't or wo n't help you , you can contact <URL> to have your account closed .
Index funds may invest either in index components directly or <URL> ( like ETFs , index options , futures , etc. ) which are highly correlated with the index . The specific fund prospectus or description on any decent financial site should contain these details . Index funds are not actively managed , but that does not mean they are n't managed at all - if index changes and the fund includes specific stock , they would adjust the fund content . Of course , the downside of it is that selling off large amounts of certain stock ( on its low point , since it 's being excluded presumably because of its decline ) and buying large amount of different stock ( on its raising point ) may have certain costs , which would cause the fund lag behind the index . Usually the difference is not overly large , but it exists . Investing in the index contents directly involves more transactions - which the fund distributes between members , so it does n't usually buy individually for each member but manages the portfolio in big chunks , which saves costs . Of course , the downside is that it can lag behind the index if it 's volatile . Also , in order to buy specific shares , you will have to shell out for a number of whole share prices - which for a big index may be a substantial sum and wo n't allow you much flexibility ( like " I want to withdraw half of my investment in S&amp;P 500 " ) since you ca n't usually own 1/10 of a share . With index funds , the entry price is usually quite low and increments in which you can add or withdraw funds are low too .
Index Funds &amp; ETFs , if they are tracking the same index , will be the same in an ideal world . The difference would be because of the following factors : Expense ratio : i.e. the expense the funds charge . This varies and hence it would lead to a difference in performance . Tracking error : this means that there is a small percentage of error between the actual index composition and the fund composition . This is due to various reasons . Effectively this would result in the difference between values . Demand / Supply : with ETFs , the fund is traded on stock exchanges like a stock . If the general feeling is that the index is rising , it could lead to an increase in the price of the ETF . Index funds on the other hand would remain the same for the day and are less liquid . This results in a price increase / decrease depending on the market . The above explains the reason for the difference . Regarding which one to buy , one would need to consider other factors like : a ) How easy is it to buy ETFs ? Do you already hold Demat A/C &amp; access to brokers to help you conduct the transaction or do you need to open an additional account at some cost . b ) Normally funds do not need any account , but are you OK with less liquidity as it would take more time to redeem funds .
Read <URL> . The VIX is an index and ca n't be traded directly . Similar to the fact that you ca n't really buy the S&amp;P index , you either try to replicate it yourself , or buy an ETF . The VIX ETFs , per this article , do n't correlate 100 % to the VIX itself . Not to be snarky , but specific to your question " how this index is best used by an individual , average investor " the answer is " it 's not . " The idea that you can buy and sell such a derivative with an eye toward hedging your average portfolio is pretty ambitious and would probably cost you in the end while not providing the insurance you believe you are getting . If you have a sufficiently large portfolio , broad market Put options would get you what you seek , but still , at a cost . The truly average investor needs to use asset allocation as a means to tune their overall risk , long term .
Sorry , you 're not going to like the answer . You owe capital gains tax on the original cost basis . You had an opportunity 10 days earlier to avoid this situation , but it looks like you missed that window . The article <URL> is about resident aliens , taxes , and immigration planning : Key quote : Pre Immigration tax planning generally can not be accomplished after the Residency Starting Date . To have avoided this situation , you should have sold the shares prior to becoming a tax resident . You could have immediately repurchased the shares , too , to establish a new cost basis for U.S. tax purposes . Another legal article titled <URL> has an example applicable to your situation : For example , Mr. X purchased a property many years ago and paid $ 100,000 for it . On the date he plans to become a U.S. tax resident , the property is worth $ 1,000,000 . If Mr. X does not step up the cost basis of the property before relocating to the U.S. and sell the property thereafter , his gain on the sale will be $ 900,000 . This gain will be subject to the highest U.S. income tax rate ( almost 40 % ) . However , with proper planning , Mr. X could have paid $ 0 in U.S. income taxes on the gain realized from the sale of the property .
This would effectively be currency speculation , betting that the Pound will be stronger vs. the Euro in November ( or whenever ) than it is today . This would be a profitable transaction if the exchange fees are less than the swing between the two . In my ( very limited ) experience , exchange fees are going to be at least a few percent , and she 's going to have to do the exchange twice if she wants to turn current Euros into Pounds and back into Euros later ; that 's at least a 6 % hit . I 'd recommend against this . While it 's quite plausible for the two currencies to move more than 6 % against each other in that time , it 's also quite possible for them to move the other way , causing her a large loss . The unfortunate thing about large , heavily traded things like GBP/EUR is that you 're very unlikely to have some information that the big traders do n't . While lots of people think that the pound is going to become stronger , just as many people think that the Euro is going to be stronger . These two camps are constantly bidding against each other , resulting in the 1.15 Pounds/Euro exchange rate as of this writing . The current price and current direction that the line is moving in no way tells you what it 's going to do next .
The S&amp;P 500 index is maintained by S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices , a division of McGraw Hill Financial . Changes to the index are made periodically , as needed . For Facebook , you 'll find it mentioned in this <URL> . Quote : New York , NY , December 11 , 2013 -- S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices will make the following changes to the S&amp;P 100 , S&amp;P 500 , MidCap 400 and S&amp;P SmallCap 600 indices after the close of trading on Friday , December 20 : Facebook Inc. ( NASD : FB ) will replace The Williams Companies Inc. ( NYSE : WMB ) in the S&amp;P 100 , and Facebook will replace Teradyne Inc. . ( NYSE : TER ) in the S&amp;P 500 [ ... ] You can find out more about the S&amp;P 500 index eligibility criteria from the <URL> . See pages 5 and 6 : Eligibility Criteria Additions - S&amp;P 500 , S&amp;P MidCap 400 and S&amp;P SmallCap 600 Market Capitalization . Market Capitalization - [ ... ] Liquidity - [ ... ] Domicile - [ ... ] Public Float - [ ... ] Sector Classification - [ ... ] Financial Viability - Usually measured as four consecutive quarters of positive as reported earnings . [ ... ] Treatment of IPOs - Initial public offerings should be seasoned for 6 to 12 months before being considered for addition to an index . Eligible Securities - [ ... ] [ ... ] Timing of Changes Changes to the U.S. indices other than the TMIX are made as needed , with no annual or semi-annual reconstitution . [ ... ] LabCorp may have a smaller market cap than Facebook , but Facebook did n't meet all of the eligibility criteria -- for instance , see the above note about " Treatment of IPOs " -- until recently . Note also that " Initial public offerings should be seasoned for 6 to 12 months " implies somebody at S&amp;P makes a decision as to the exact when . As such , I would say , no , there is no " simple rule or formula " , just the methodology above as applied by the decision-makers at S&amp;P .
Here 's the <URL> for individuals ( scroll down to table 3 , Period of Limitations ) Personally , I keep everything for 7 years just to be safe . Seems like most people should be able to get away with just 3 years though .
A good general rule is to save 15 % of your income for retirement . As for where you put it : Put as much as it takes to maximize your employer match into your 401 ( k ) , but no more . The employer match is free money , and you ca n't beat free money If you still have n't put in 15 % , put the rest into a Roth IRA . By historical standards , taxes are pretty low today . They are almost certainly going to be higher in retirement , especially since you likely wo n't have the deductions in retirement that you may have now ( kids , mortgage , etc ) . If you 've maxed our the allowed contribution for your Roth and still have n't saved 15 % , put the rest in a traditional IRA .
You can , but for incomes less than $ 58K you can also use <URL> . I 'm guessing IRS assumed that people would prefer to use software if they can , rather than raw forms . I would assume the same .
That 's the Total Return for the last 12 months . There was a dividend of $ 0.63 on December 22 , 2014 , causing the price to drop about $ 0.63 . If you reinvest that dividend at that time , that $ 0.63 will continue to grow till now . Use proper tools to look at Total Return : <URL> You would not see the gap down in December when using this tool , and the 1y Total Return on the chart clearly says ~ 16 %
You can select $ 5000 from each employer , but you 'll end up getting taxed on everything in excess of $ 5000 when you file your taxes , so it will only create extra paperwork for you . I think that you can do $ 2500 from each employer if you want , but I 'm not sure about that . ( It might also make a difference if you 're married filing separately . ) If you want to see how it shakes out , look at form 2441 . At line 21 , it makes you compare to $ 5000 , which is where the limit comes into play . Then on line 26 you can see where you may end up with " taxable benefits " that just get added back to your wages on Form 1040 . <URL>
There 's nothing to rebalance , the index fund rebalances itself to continue matching the index . However , you need to understand that such an investment is not diversified and you only invest in a very specific market , and very specific stocks on that market . S&amp;P 500 is large ( 500 different companies , most of the time ) , but still not as broadly diversified as your retirement investment portfolio should be . You should talk to a financial adviser ( CFP for example ) , many companies provide access to these for 401k plan participants . But in any case , I 'd suggest considering " target date " funds - funds that are investing based on your expected retirement year , and become more conservative as you get closer to that year .
Yes , for example <URL> , a mutual fund tracking the Nasdaq and <URL> and <URL> , two ETFs tracking the Dow . Yes , they all pay dividends because the funds are required to distribute the dividends they receive from their constituent stocks .
Add up all of the expenses . For a rental , two to three months rent is typically needed to pay deposit , first and last month 's rent . Then there 's deposits and fees to have utilities activated and put in your name . Then you should budget for the kitchen : food , dishes , utensils , pots and pans , small appliances . Then the rest : linens , towels , cleaning supplies , bathroom supplies , etc. . Oh . Do n't forget furniture . At least a mattress and a small table with a chair . :) Along the way , you 'll find out how much your monthly expenses are , on average . Use this to calculate how much you need to keep set aside on a permanent basis as your emergency fund .
You would have to compare your backtesting to what you will be doing in real trading , and try to have the backtesting as close to your real trading as possible . Note : you may never get the backtesting to match your real trading exactly but you need to get as close as possible . The whole purpose of backtesting is to check if your trading strategies - your signals , entries and exits , and your stops - are profitable over various market conditions . As you would be using actual closes to do your real trading you should be using this to also do your backtesting . Rather than using adjusted data to get an idea of your total return from your backtesting , you can always add the value of the dividends and other corporate actions to the results from using the actual data . You may even find a way to add any dividends and other corporate action to your results automatically , i.e. any dividend amount added to your total return if the stock is held during the ex-dividend date . If you are using adjusted data in your backtesting this may affect any stops you have placed , i.e. it may cause your stop to be triggered earlier or later than in real trading . So you will need to determine how you will treat your stops in real trading . Will you adjust them when there is corporate action such as dividends ? Or will you leave them constant until actual prices have gone up ? If you will be leaving your stops constant then you should definitely be using actual data in your backtesting to better match your real trading .
Here are a few things that you could try . But note that they are all capable of failing . They will just reduce the chance of you personally having a lost decade . First a quibble : John Bogle advocates a total stock market index ( something like Vanguard 's <URL> ) instead of an S&amp;P fund , as the latter represents " only " 85 % or so of the US market 's total capitalization . Smaller companies behave slightly differently than members of the S&amp;P , so this might provide a small help . Bogle also advocates holding some bonds in addition to equities . I 'll expand on that below . Account for dividends . Just because the value of the index is the same as its value 10 or 20 years ago does n't necessarily mean that decade was lost . The companies in the S&amp;P are currently paying out an annualized dividend of about 2 % . Even if the actual value of the index does n't change , you 're still getting that 2 % per year . Include bonds . As I mentioned above , Bogle recommends holding some bonds . I have seen two common rules . One is to never have less than 20 % of your total holdings in bonds , and never have more than 80 % of your total holdings in bonds . The other popular rule is to hold your age in bonds . For example , I 'm about 30 , so I should keep about 30 % of my holdings in bonds . Regardless of the split , <URL> periodically to keep yourself at that split . What effect would holding bonds have on a lost decade ? To make the math easy , let 's say you split your holdings evenly between an S&amp;P fund and 10 year Treasuries . Coincidentally , 10 year <URL> have the same 2 % yield as the S&amp;P dividends . If you 're getting that on half your holdings , and nothing on the other half , you 're netting 1 % per year . Not great , but not totally lost . To illustrate the effect of rebalancing , use my example of a 70/30 stock/bond split . The S&amp;P lost about 50 % of its value from its peak to the bottom of the market in early 2008 . If you only held stock , you would need the market to increase in value by 100 % in order for you to recover that value . If 30 % of your holdings are in bonds , and you rebalance at exactly the bottom of the stock market , you only need the stock index to increase in value by about 80 % from the bottom in order to make you whole again . I mention those two to emphasize that your investment return is not just a function of the price of a stock index . Dollar cost average . It 's rare that you will actually face the situation of putting ( say ) $ 100,000 into the market all at once , let it sit for 10-20 years , then take it all out at once . The situation you face is closer to putting about $ 1000 into the market every month for 100 months . If you do that , then you 're getting a different price for each purchase you make . Your actual return will be a weighted average of the return from each of those purchases . But note that this could help or hurt you . Using the chart Victor showed in his answer , if your lost decade is from one peak to the next peak , your average price will be below the price you would have entered and left at . So this helps . But if your lost decade is from trough to trough , then your average price is higher than the start and end price , so this has hurt you . Those are the two extreme cases , and the general case will be somewhere in between . And you can use these regular purchases to help you carry out your regular rebalancing . Foreign equities . Since you mention the S&amp;P 500 specifically , I assume that you are in the United States . The US equities is approximately 45 % of the <URL> equities market . So even if the S&amp;P 500 has a lost decade , it 's unlikely that the rest of the world will also have a lost decade at the same time . For comparison , the Tokyo Stock Exchange is the third largest in the world ( behind the US 's NYSE and NASDAQ ) ; the market cap of the TSE is less than 20 % that of the combined market cap of the NYSE and the NASDAQ , which puts it at about 10 % of the world 's market cap . When the Nikkei had its lost decades , no one else had a lost decade . Note that buying foreign equities is more expensive than buying domestic , and it exposes you to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the currencies . But the benefit of diversification probably outweighs those downsides . And obviously it 's easier to diversify away from Japan than it is to diversify away from the United States . But there are people who advocate holding exactly the market weight of every country in the world .
end question
start question
Can I file taxes in the state where I own a home even if I do n't live there ?
You file in every State you worked in . Technically , while you 're in a State and you work - your earnings are sourced to that State . Also , since you were domiciled in New Jersey - you file there as well , as your residency State . From the time you moved to NY - you should check whether you 're still considered a resident in NJ , but you 're likely to be considered a resident in NY , so you file a part-year return there for that period . It is possible to be considered resident in more than one State at the same time , so it may get even more complicated .
With a match , the 401 ( k ) becomes the priority , up to that match , often ahead of other high interest debt . Without the match , the analysis is more about the cost within the 401 ( k ) . The 401 ( k ) is a tax deferred account ( let 's not go on a tangent to Roth 401 ( k ) ) so ideally , you 'd be skimming off money at 25 % and saving it till you retire , so some of it is taxed at 0 , 10 , 15 % . If the fees in the 401 ( k ) are say 1.5 % between the underlying funds and management fee , it does n't take long to wipe out the potential 10 or 15 % you are trying to gain . Yes , there 's a risk that cap gain rates go away , but with today 's tax law , the long term rate is 15 % . So that money put into a long term low cost ETF will have reinvested dividends taxed at 15 % and upon sale , a 15 % rate on the gains . There are great index ETFs with sub - .1 % annual cost . My simple answer is - If the total cost in that 401 ( k ) is .5 % or higher , I 'd pass . Save the money in an outside account , using IRAs as best you can . ( The exact situation needs to be looked at very carefully . In personal finance , there 's a lot of ' grey ' . For example , a frequent job changer can view the 401 ( k ) as a way of saving pretax , knowing the fee will only last 2 years , and will end with a transfer to the IRA )
No , you only pay tax on money you earned while in the state in question . Even then generally there are exclusions if you made only a small amount . ( Generally earning less than $ 400 or $ 500 , depending on the state , relieves you a having to file or pay taxes in a state . ) Do n't want to pay any state income tax ? There are seven states with no state income tax . They are Alaska , Florida , Nevada , South Dakota , Texas , Washington and Wyoming . Yes , I am a CPA .
I would n't be too concerned , yet . You 're young . Many young people are living longer in the family home . See this Guardian article : <URL> . You 're in good company . Yet , there will come a time when you ought to get your own place , either for your own sanity or your parents ' sanity . You should be preparing for that and building up your savings . Since you 've got an income , you should -- if you 're not already -- put away some of that money regularly . Every time you get paid , make a point of depositing a portion of your income into a savings or investment account . Look up the popular strategy called <URL> . Since you still live at home , it 's possible you 're a little more loose with spending money than you should be -- at least , I 've found that to be the case with some friends who lived at home as young adults . So , perhaps pretend you 're on your own . What would your rent be if you had to find a place of your own ? If , say , # 600 instead of the # 200 you 're currently paying , then you should reduce your spending to the point where you can save at least # 400 per month . Follow a budget . With respect to your car , it 's great you recognize your mistake . We 're human and we can learn from our mistakes . Plan to make it your one and only car mistake . I made one too . With respect to your credit card debt , it 's not an insurmountable amount . Focus on getting rid of that debt soon and then focus on staying out of debt . The effective way to use credit cards is to never carry a balance -- i.e. pay it off in full each month . If you ca n't do that , you 're likely overspending . Also , look at what pensions your employer might offer . If they offer matching contributions , contribute at least as much to maximize the tax free extra pay this equates to . If you have access to a defined benefit plan , join it as soon as you are eligible . Last , I think it 's important to recognize that at age 23 you 're just starting out . Much of your career income earning potential is ahead of you . Strive to be the best at what you do , get promotions , and increase your income . Meanwhile , continue to save a good portion of what you earn . With discipline , you 'll get where you want to be .
Congrats on the upcoming wedding ! <URL> . They note that you can choose to treat your spouse as a US resident for tax purposes and file jointly if you want to , by attaching a certain declaration to your tax return . Though I 'm not a tax expert , if your partner has significant income it seems like this might increase your taxes due . You can also apply for an SSN ( used for tax filings , joint or separate return ) at a social security office or US consulate , by form SS-5 , or file form W-7 with the IRS to get a Taxpayer Identification Number which is just as useful for this purpose . Without that , you can write " Non Resident Alien " ( or " NRA " ) in the box for your partner 's SSN , and mail in a paper return like that . See <URL> page 22 ( discussions on TurboTax <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) .
In order for you to be able to talk to the FTB on someone 's behalf , that someone has to submit <URL> . Note that since you 're not a professional , this form must be paper-filed ( CRTP , EA , CPA or attorneys can have this filed on-line ) . Once the form is accepted by the FTB , you can contact the FTB on behalf of your friend . Pay attention : you 're going to represent the partnership , not the individual .
I strongly recommend that you talk to an accountant right away because you could save some money by making a tax payment by January 15 , 2014 . You will receive Forms 1099-MISC from the various entities with whom you are doing business as a contractor detailing how much money they paid you . A copy will go to the IRS also . You file a Schedule C with your Form 1040 in which you detail how much you received on the 1099-MISC forms as well as any other income that your contracting business received ( e.g. amounts less than $ 600 for which a 1099-MISc does not need to be issued , or tips , say , if you are a taxi-driver running your own cab ) , and you can deduct various expenses that you incurred in generating this income , including tools , books , ( or gasoline ! ) etc that you bought for doing the job . You will need to file a Schedule SE that will compute how much you owe in Social Security and Medicare taxes on the net income on Schedule C . You will pay at twice the rate that employees pay because you get to pay not only the employee 's share but also the employer 's share . At least , you will not have to pay income tax on the employer 's share . Your net income on Schedule C will transfer onto Form 1040 where you will compute how much income tax you owe , and then add on the Social Security tax etc to compute a final amount of tax to be paid . You will have to pay a penalty for not making tax payments every quarter during 2013 , plus interest on the tax paid late . Send the IRS a check for the total . If you talk to an accountant right away , he/she will likely be able to come up with a rough estimate of what you might owe , and sending in that amount by January 15 will save some money . The accountant can also help you set up for the 2014 tax year during which you could make quarterly payments of estimated tax for 2014 and avoid the penalties and interest referred to above .
Hi Alex. I 've been alerted you 're seeking a better answer to this question . ;-) Please accept my apologies for not coming back to this question sooner -- it got buried . : - / No , in general you can not make an early withdrawal penalty-free from a 403 ( b ) account to use towards the purchase of a home . Withdrawals before age 59 1/2 are generally subject to the 10 % early withdrawal penalty , on top of ordinary income tax . Some 403 ( b ) plans may allow for a loan , but the availability and conditions vary by plan . If you 'd consider a loan , you should check with your plan administrator or your plan 's Summary Plan Description -- often available at one 's company intranet or HR web site . ( I do contract work for an HR consulting firm that assists others in building such sites , and SPDs are usually something made available for download in a " Retirement " or " Wealth " section of such web sites . ) Note that a loan from a 403 ( b ) would need to be paid back into the plan over some period of time , e.g. 5 years , though I have come across examples of <URL> <URL> that do permit a longer pay back period of 10 , 15 , even 30 years if the loan is used for a home purchase . But consider this article : <URL> Finally , to your last point : Yes , if you have an IRA , there are rules permitting withdrawal of up to $ 10,000 penalty-free for use towards the purchase of a first home . See page 53 in <URL> . There 's also a good article at <URL> . Such a withdrawal from a traditional IRA remains subject to ordinary income tax . If have a Roth IRA , you can withdraw free of income tax but you need to pay attention to the <URL> . Additional Resources : <URL>
<URL> You may be able to get tax back for some of the bills you have to pay because you have to work at home on a regular basis . You can only claim for things to do with your work , eg business telephone calls or the extra cost of gas and electricity for your work area . You ca n't claim for things that you use for both private and business use , eg rent or broadband access . You do n't need to provide records for claims of up to # 4 per week ( # 18 per month ) . For claims over # 4 per week you 'll need to provide evidence of what you 've spent . Claims up to # 2,500 You must claim using a Self Assessment tax return if you already fill one in . If you do n't already fill in a Self Assessment tax return , and your allowable expenses are under # 2,500 for the tax year , fill in form P87 and send it to the address on the form . If you 've made a successful claim in a previous tax year and your expenses are less than # 1,000 ( or # 2,500 for professional fees and subscriptions ) , you may be able to make your claim by phone . Claims over # 2,500 You must claim using a Self Assessment tax return .
You do n't need to keep receipts for most things , and if you are not going to itemize your deductions ( which as a college student , you probably wo n't ) , you need even fewer . Things that you should always keep : Your last pay stub for the year , to check against your W-2 ( optional , but possibly useful ) . Anything related to investments ( buying/selling stock , IRA contributions , etc. ) Anything related to buying/selling property . If you are itemizing your deductions , you want to keep receipts for anything that you can itemize . Some common things are : State and local property and income taxes Medical expenses Charitable contributions Unreimbursed job related expenses Another thing that you should do , but few people do , is keep track of your online purchases , since many states require you to pay sales tax on those purchases . Of course , the state has no way of knowing what you buy online , so it is all done on the honor system .
On the back of the W4 is a <URL> worksheet . This worksheet will give you an accurate number to enter on line 5 of your W4 .
Yes , you call the broker and tell him to use those shares to deliver to the short position .
While this may seem like a good idea , it 's not really what it seems . Here 's why . Your money is in US dollars . You 're going to have to use those USD to buy Australian dollars before you can buy the Australian bonds . When you sell the Australian bonds , you 're going to have to convert the money back from Australian currency to US Dollars . In the meantime , the Australian dollar may have gone up , or gone down . So you 're taking a very big currency risk . There is a way to solve this problem : you can use currency futures to hedge against this currency risk . What that means is , essentially , that you buy insurance against the possibility that the Australian dollar goes down . The cost of this insurance reduces the money you make . In fact , it 's going to reduce it by almost exactly the difference between Australian and US interest rates . Why ? Well , because the insurance ( currency futures ) trades freely , the Australian bonds trade freely , and US bonds trade freely , too , so if there was such a thing as a " free lunch " other speculators would have arbitraged it away . The three rates ( Australian interest rate , US interest rate , and the price of currency futures ) MUST and WILL move in tandem . SO ... while you might THINK that you 're getting a 5 % rate instead of a 0 % rate , what you 're really doing is making a bet on the future direction of the Australian currency relative to the US currency . That might not be something you expected , and unless you have a strong desire to speculate in currency and take macro-economic views on where various currencies are going , this is probably not the investment you thought it was .
$ 400K is equity , $ 200K is principal owed on your mortgage . Cost basis is still $ 500K .
If you 're a US citizen/resident - you pay taxes on your worldwide income regardless of where you live . The logic is that Americans generally do n't agree to the view that there 's more than one country in the world . If you 're non-US person , not physically present in the US , and provide contract work for a US employer - you generally do n't pay taxes in the US . The logic is that the US does n't actually have any jurisdiction over that money , you did n't earn it in the US . That said , your employer might withheld tax and remit it to the IRS , and you 'll have to chase them for refund . If you receive income from the US rental property or dividends from a US company - you pay income tax to the US on that income , and then bargain with your home tax authority on refunds of the difference between what you paid in the US and what you should have paid at home . You can also file non-resident tax return in the US to claim what you have paid in excess . The logic is that the money sourced in the US should be taxed in the US . You earned that money in the US . There are additional rules to more specific situation , and there are also bilateral treaties between countries ( including a US-Canadian treaty ) that supersede national laws . Bottom line , not only that each country has its own laws , there are also different laws for different situations , and if some of the international treaties apply to you - it further complicates the situation . If something is not clear - get a professional advice form a tax accountant licensed in the relevant jurisdictions ( in your case - any of the US states , and the Canadian province where you live ) .
The dividend goes into the IRA ( either reinvested automatically or remains as cash until you invest it , per your choice ) . You 're not taxed on this dividend ( IRA is a taxed-deferred account - you 're taxed on the distributions , but not on the capital gains within the account ) .
Unless they 're the actual employers , the I-9 is none of their business . Your employer must verify your eligibility for employment on the first day of your employment , i.e. : when you find a job you 'll have to fill I-9 anyway . The only reason I can think for them to do it is to verify that you 're eligible for employment before they waste any time on searching for a job for you . I 'm not sure if they 're legally allowed to ask for your status , so maybe that 's their way of working around that . I do n't think they can require you to fill I-9 , and in fact I 'm not sure if its even legal for them to obtain that information without actually being your employers . IMHO , that is , consult with an attorney if you want a proper legal advice .
From the article <URL> The IRS has some advice for taxpayers who missed the tax filing deadline . File as soon as possible . If you owe federal income tax , you should file and pay as soon as you can to minimize any penalty and interest charges . There is no penalty for filing a late return if you are due a refund .
They however claim that the taxes will be paid on my behalf considering the income for one year . Yes that 's right . They are required to consider the full years income and deduct tax in 12 equal portions , right from first salary . You can claim refund while filing returns .
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
end question
start question
Can we make traditional IRA deductions to reduce last year taxes if we have 401ks and I already contributed to a Roth ?
At exactly 105K you can take a deduction of 13/20 * 5500 = $ 3575 each and the rest ( $ 1925 ) as a Roth deposit . No need to have non-deducted money , when you can just make use of both flavors of IRA .
Individuals most definitely can have NOL . This is covered in the <URL> . What is the difference between NOL and capital loss ? NOL is Net Operating Loss . I.e. : a situation where your ( allowable ) expenses and deductions exceed your gross income . Basically it means that you have negative income for that year , for tax purposes . Capital loss occurs when the total amount of your capital gains reported on Schedule D is negative . What are their relations then ? Not all expenses and deductions that you usually put on your tax return are allowed for NOL calculation . For example , capital loss is not allowed . I.e. : if you earned $ 2000 and you lost in stocks $ 3000 - you do not get a $ 1K NOL . Capital losses are excluded from NOL calculation and in this scenario you still have non-negative income for NOL purposes even though it is offset in full by capital loss deduction and your " taxable income " line is negative . The $ 1K that was not allowed - gets carried forward to the next year using the <URL> . You calculate your NOL using <URL> . You can use the form 1045 to apply the NOL to prior 2 years , or you can elect to apply it only to future years ( up to 20 years ) . In what cases , capital loss can be NOL ? Never .
The PAYE tax and NI will be deducted as usual . Send HMRC a <URL> to tell them you 're emigrating , and they will refund the tax .
My French is very rusty and <URL> is in French only . But with my rusty French I could n't find any information that would suggest that they actually do refunds . From my experience ( with other countries , not France ) , once a private person pays the VAT/customs - they 're non-refundable ( unless you 're a tourist that is and can claim refund ) .
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
Nothing is stopping you from opening up Roth IRAs in different companies and contributing the maximum to each one , but if you do n't withdraw contributions ( and any earnings generated by the withdrawn contributions while within the IRA ) so as to leave a total contribution of $ 5500 for 2013 , then Yes , you will be penalized . You do not report contributions to a Roth IRA on your tax return , but companies report to the IRS on the IRA accounts they hold , and the contributions and withdrawals/distributions made each year into each IRA account . Each company will send you a copy of the form that it sent in to the IRS so you wo n't be blind-sided in this matter . You will then get a letter from the IRS informing you that you have to pay penalties ( the technical term is a 6 % excise tax ) for over-contributing to your IRA . If you obdurately refuse to remove the excess contributions ( and any earnings generated by the excess contributions ) , that tax will be assessed in the years following too , until the matter is set right . . Note also that the maximum allowable contribution is reduced ( and ultimately eliminated entirely ) for people with high Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) . Some people make a contribution to a Roth IRA each year but then withdraw it in timely fashion when they discover that their MAGI is too high ( often during the preparation of their income tax returns ) .
If one wants to have a bound on the loss percentages that are acceptable , this is would be a way to enforce that . For example , suppose someone wants to have a 5 % stop-loss but does n't want this to be worse than 10 % as if the stock goes down more than 10 % then the sell should n't happen . Thus , if the stock opened in a gap down 15 % one day , this triggers the stop-loss and would exit at too low of a price as the gap was quite high as I wonder how familiar are you with how much a stock 's price could change that makes the prices not be as continuous as one would think . At least this would be my thinking on a volatile stock where one may want to try to limit losses if the stock does fall within a specific range .
You do n't even have to participate in a 401k plan ; as long as an employer offers you a 401k plan , that " Retirement " box will be checked on your 2014 W-2 that your employer will send to you in January 2015 . With regard to deductability of Traditional IRA contributions , that will depend on your Modified Adjusted Gross Income ( MAGI ) for 2014 , your marital status as of December 31 , 2014 , and if you are married , then whether your spouse is covered by a retirement plan and your filing status ( different thresholds for Married Filing Jointly and Married Filing Separately ) .
There is no segregation of amounts that you have in Rollover ( Traditional ) IRAs when it comes to figuring out how much of your basis is being converted from your Traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . So , yes , you will lose the benefit of being able to make nondeductible contributions to your Traditional IRA each year and rolling them over into a Roth IRA without tax consequences . Since your 401k amount may be substantially more than the $ 5K basis you create each year , converting the 401k amount into a Traditional IRA will mean that most of the money converted to the Roth IRA is pre-tax money , and so you end up paying tax on most of the converted amount .
If your annual salary exceeded the maximum amount subject to Social Security tax for 2013 ( $ 113,700 as per JoeTaxpayer 's comment ) , then it is possible that the last paycheck is what put you over the limit . Thus , part of the salary on the last paycheck had Social Security tax withheld and part did not . As JoeTaxpayer points out , there is no limit on the earnings subject to Medicare tax , and so that amount should not have changed at all .
Yes , depending <URL> . You generally can make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax return for the year in which you made them . This means that even if you are under age 59 1/2 , the 10 % additional tax may not apply . These distributions are explained in <URL> I believe any growth is subject to the <URL> : The 10 % additional tax on distributions made before you reach age 59 1/2 does not apply to these tax-free withdrawals of your contributions . However , the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 and , unless the distribution qualifies as an exception to the age 59 1/2 rule , it will be subject to this tax .
Yes , it can be done . See " Scenario 4 " at <URL> . Though that article is primarily about getting after-tax 401 ( k ) money into a Roth IRA , Scenario 4 applies to the scenario you are asking about . At a high level you do exactly what you say -- transfer the pre-tax money from your trad IRAs to a 401 ( k ) ( btw , a solo 401 ( k ) will work for this also -- does n't have to be your employer 's -- but then you need to be eligible to set up a solo 401 ( k ) ) . This is allowed because qualified plans ca n't accept after after-tax traditional IRA money , so the transfer overrides the usual pro rata rules and " strains " the basis out and leaves it in the trad IRA . However , there 's a mismatch between the intent of Congress ( as indicated by the Joint Committee on Taxation report on the law ) and the actual text of the law as detailed in the Fairmark article which while it does n't stop you from doing this adds a couple of hoops to jump through if you want to be in total compliance with the law .
Licensing would n't be related to whether you could use the caregiver 's receipts as tax-deductions . The IRS has a page worth checking out : <URL> , as well as <URL> . Specifically check out the section " Provider Identification Test " in Publication 503 ; it 's relevant . The amount you 're deducting for child care needs to be for a " qualified person " , e.g. a dependent child under age 13 , per the IRS , but the caregiver -- as far as the IRS is concerned -- need not be specially qualified to provide child care . However , the caregiver ca n't also be a dependent ( e.g. your spouse or another child . ) See the resources above for details . Licensing is likely enforced at a municipal or state level , separate from the tax code , and I imagine would be more concerned with the qualifications and conditions of the child care business operator .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
If you open a brokerage account , it 's certain that at the END of the calendar year a 1099-INT or 1099-DIV or related tax document will likely be sent to the IRS . What happens after that point is unknown . If you are asking if you will get " caught " by opening a brokerage account , no one here can answer that question . Based on the change in banking/securities laws after 9/11 there are many more reporting burdens that the brokerages and banks follow . If you are a US citizen , even if you are living abroad , as you already know <URL> ( even though most likely you will owe no tax ) . Whether you open a brokerage account or not , it wo n't change that obligation . The obligation is born out of your citizenship , not your activities in the US .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
No , the situation is not different , the roll-over rules are the same . It wo n't be taxable ( as opposed to traditional to Roth roll-over ) , but other than that it 's the same . Whether the 401k allows rolling over or not while you 're still employed - you have to check with the plan administrator ( ask your payroll/HR for details ) . Usually , the deferred compensation can not be rolled over out of the 401k while you 're still employed .
You will owe penalty to file for year 1 and penalty for failure to file and penalty for failure to pay for year 2 . Penalty for year 1 will be moot , since no tax is due , but the IRS does n't know it until you file a return . If you do n't - they 'll " make up " a return on your behalf based on the information they have , and assess taxes and penalties based on that . Refunds are not applied automatically . The fact that you think you have a refund ( that IRS does n't know of , since you have n't submitted the forms ) does n't mean you owe less the next year . However , if you 're on an installment agreement or in collection , once the refund approved , it will be applied to your existing debt in other years before being distributed to you ( what 's left ) . The penalty for failure to file is quite high , including interest . I suggest taking care of this ASAP , and I also suggest to have a licensed professional ( EA or CPA licensed in your State ) help you with this .
I found a calculator at <URL> that takes into account the 2010 deal to defer part of the tax into 2011 and 2012
You have tracked the non-deducted IRA money via form 8606 . Now , you have two numbers . Total balance and taxed deposits . For example - I deposited $ 5K/yr into my IRA for the last 4 years , not deducted from my income . I now have a $ 20K post tax amount , but my actual balance can be higher ( I 'd hope ) or lower . If my balance is lower , a full conversion has no tax due at all . If my balance is , say , $ 25,000 , conversions are 20 % taxable , i.e. a full conversion has $ 5K of the conversion subject to taxes , $ 20K not . A $ 10K conversion ( ready ? ) has $ 2K taxed , and my running " post-tax " balance is now $ 12K , as $ 8K was just converted . When answering questions , I struggle to balance brevity with a comprehensive answer , forgive me if I missed the mark prior to editing here .
end question
start question
Do you micro-manage index fund purchases to a particular day of the month ?
That 's the kind of strategy that " works until it does n't . " Some people have observed daily , monthly , " seasonal " patterns in trading that exist , usually for psychological reasons . These observations work until enough people " catch on . " Then they move the calendar . In order to continue to succeed , you have to keep one step ahead of the crowd .
FBAR is enforced by the IRS , and OVDP is administered by the IRS , and as part of the program your tax returns will be examined . So I 'd personally say that the answer is yes - treat it as part of the tax preparation fees . If you want to deduct tax preparation fees , you can do it as part of your itemized deductions , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold , so yes - you have to itemize . It is entered on <URL> .
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
I 've tried Mint , and I 've tried Quicken . Now , I think Quicken is an annoying , crashy little piece of software , but it is also quite capable ; overall I think it has the features you want . You can enter your bills , broken down by category , in advance . You can enter your paychecks , broken down by category ( gross income , federal income tax , state income tax , social security , SDI , transfers to tax-protected 401 ( k ) account , etc ) in advance . You can enter in your stock trades and it can tell you how much you 'll need to end up paying in capital gains taxes . You can even enter in your stock option vesting schedule in advance ( it 's a royal pain because you ca n't go back and change anything without deleting everything , but you can do it ) . It 'll forecast your bank account balance in all of your bank accounts in advance with a shiny chart . It 'll even model your loans , if you set it up right . I did n't do too much with the " budgeting " tools per se , but the account-balances-daily features sound like the closest thing to what you 're looking for that 's likely to exist . The only thing that 's a trifle tricky is that transfers from one account to another may take multiple days ( hello , ACH ) and you 'll have to decide whether to record them at departure or arrival .
<URL> Mr D receives a dividend of # 100 cash from his Limited Company . The way tax credits work means that this actually represents only 90 % of the tax charge so to work out the taxable income it needs to be ' grossed up ' to 100 % . You do this by taking the 100 , dividing it by 90 then multiplying it by 100 , giving # 111.11 . For the purposes of a tax return this is the dividend income . Next you need to think about how much tax should be paid . This depends on which tax bracket you fall into : Basic rate tax payers pay 0 % on dividends Dividend income = # 111.11 Incurring tax of : Tax charge at 10 % = # 11.11 Less 10 % tax credit = - # 11.11 Tax due = # 0 So as I said this results in income tax of 0 % . Though on your tax return you have to go through all those steps . As the author puts it , just the vagaries of ministers and to confuse mere mortals . Primarily the credit is because you have already paid corporation tax on the income , so a bit of relief and not to tax you twice .
The regulators ( in the past , at least ) and banks distinguish demand-deposit ( checking ) accounts from savings accounts . Checking accounts are without such limits , but savings accounts are subject to withdrawals-per-month limitations . The overall effect of this is to slow the speed with which money flows through the savings account , thus essentially making the money remain on deposit for a longer time . That 's exactly why generally savings accounts pay more interest than checking accounts .
First off , you generally want to park your emergency fund somewhere that is " safe " , meaning something that is not subject to market fluctuations . Your emergency fund is something you need to be able to count on when times are tough ! That rules out things like stock market investments . Secondly , you need to think about how quickly you will need access to the money . If you have an emergency , odds are you do n't want to be waiting around for weeks/months/years for the money to become available . This rules out most fixed-term investments ( Bonds , traditional CDs , etc ) . If you are concerned that you will need near-instant access to your emergency money , then you probably want to keep it in a Savings or Money Market Account at the same bank as your checking account . Most banks will let you transfer money between local accounts instantly . Unfortunately , your local bank probably has pitiful interest rates for the Savings/MMA , far below the inflation rate . This means your money will slowly lose value over time . Be prepared to keep contributing to it ! For most people , being able to draw the cash from your fund within a few days ( < 1 week ) is sufficient . Worst case , you charge something on your credit card , and then pay down the card when the emergency fund withdrawal arrives . If " money within a few days " is okay for you , there are a few options : Money Market ( Mutual ) Funds ( not to be confused with a Money Market Account ) - This is the traditional place to keep an emergency fund . These are investment funds you can buy with a brokerage account . An example of such a fund would be <URL> . MMFs are not FDIC insured , so they are not exactly zero risk . However , they are considered extremely safe . They almost never go down in value ( only a few times in the past few decades ) , and when they have , the fund manager or the Federal Govt stepped in to restore the value . They usually offer slightly better return than a local savings account , and are available in taxable and non-taxable varieties . Online High-Yield Savings or Money Market Account - These are a relatively new invention . It 's basically a the same thing as what your local bank offers , but it 's online-only . No local branch means low overhead , so they offer higher interest rates ( 2.0 % vs 0.5 % for your local bank ) . Some of them used to be over 5 % before the economy tanked . Like your local bank , it is FDIC insured . One bit of caution : Some of these accounts have become " gimmicky " lately . They have started to do things like promo rates for a few months , only offering the high interest rate on the first few $ K deposited , limiting the amount that can be withdrawn , etc. . Be sure to read the details before you open an account ! No-Penalty CDs - Certificates of Deposit usually offer a better rate than a Savings Account , but your money is locked up until the CD term is up ( e.g. 36 months ) . If you need to cash out before then , you pay a penalty . Some banks have begun to offer CDs that you can cash out with no penalty at all . These can offer better rates than the savings account . Make sure it really is no-penalty though . Also watch what your options are for slowly adding money over time . This can be an issue if you want to deposit $ 100 from every paycheck . Rewards Checking Accounts - These are checking accounts that will pay a relatively high interest rate ( 3 % or more ) provided you generate enough activity . Most of them will have requirements like you must have direct deposit setup with them , and you must do a minimum number of debit card transactions from the account per month . If you can stay on top of the requirements , these can be a great deal . If you do n't stay on top of it , your interest rate usually drops back to something pitiful , though . Personally , we use the Online High-Yield Savings Account for our emergency fund . I 'm not going to make a specific recommendation as to which bank to use . The best deal changes almost week to week . Instead , I will say to check out <URL> for a list of savings accounts and CDs that you can sort . The <URL> is a good place to follow rate changes .
There are a few reasons why an index mutual fund may be preferable to an ETF : Index mutual funds do n't typically have transaction fees and ETFs usually do because ETFs trade like stocks . If you pursue a dollar cost averaging strategy ( i.e. buying stocks every two weeks ) , ETF transaction costs can add up . Fractional index mutual fund shares can be owned , so you can invest a constant amount in an index mutual fund ( which also works well with a dollar cost averaging strategy ) . You ca n't buy 18.3 shares of an ETF . Similar to stocks , ETFs have liquidity risk . ETFs can trade at a premium or discount to Net Asset Value , similar to a close-ended mutual fund ( this means the price of an ETF can stray from the value of its underlying assets ) . I looked at the <URL> and it has an expense ratio of 0.07 % . The Vanguard Admiral S&amp;P 500 index has an expense ratio of 0.05 % and the Investor Shares have an expense ratio of 0.17 % , do I do n't necessarily agree with your statement " admiral class Vanguard shares do n't beat the iShares ETF " .
Your ETF will return the interest as dividends . If you hold the ETF on the day before the Ex-Dividend date , you will get the dividend . If you sell before that , you will not . Note that at least one other answer to this question is wrong . You do NOT need to hold on the Record date . There is usually 2 days ( or so ) between the ex-date and the record date , which corresponds to the number of days it takes for your trade to settle . See the rules as published by the SEC : <URL>
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
You 're lending the money to your business by paying for it directly . The company accounts must reflect a credit ( the amount you lend to it ) and a debit ( what it then puts that loan towards ) . It 's fairly normal for a small ( ish ) owner-driven company to reflect a large loan-account for the owners . For example , if you have a room at home dedicated for the business it is impractical to pay rent directly via the company . The rental agreement is probably in your name , you pay the rent , and you reconcile it with the company later . You could even charge your company ( taxable ) interest on this loan . When you draw down the loan from the company you reverse this , debit your loan account and credit the company ( paying off the debt ) . As far as tracking that expenditure , simply handle those third-party invoices in the normal way and file them for reference .
Not much at all , especially an introductory level Microeconomics class . There are a few reasons for this : Finance and investing is not actually economics . Some of economics surrounds investing , but economics as a field is much wider than that . The class will likely cover the concepts behind how you theoretically make economic decisions , and not why putting your life savings into a 3x short leveraged ETF will ruin everything . It 's an introductory class . While it may give you the foundations of understanding how the economy works , it 's not going to prepare you for the more complex world that actually exists . Supply and demand curves and other theoretical frameworks are all well and good , but it 's no more going to make you an astute investor than taking a introductory class in human physiology is going to make you a decent doctor . The economics is not finance thing again . The market is n't rational . You are n't rational . The toy models that you 'll work with are only tangentially useful . That 's not to say that Economics is n't worth studying . I loved both my Micro and Macro class . But I probably got more useful investing knowledge from a class on linear regression .
I would say it 's all relative . Take the following two scenarios : I 'm a daytrader and I can make $ 1,000,000 a year with my aggressive trading , but I have to pay a 35 % tax rate . My remaining profit is $ 650,000 . I 'm a long-term trader and I can make $ 500,000 a year with less frequent trading . My tax rate is 20 % . My remaining profit is $ 400,000 . If you were facing these options , would you chose # 2 just because you pay a lower tax rate , even though you make less money ? These numbers are of course fictional , but the point I 'm trying to make is that everyone will seek the method that allows them to make the most money . If they have to pay a higher tax rate , so be it . One other thought : daytraders will have higher expenses , which are deductible .
You 're essentially asking the very common " Do I Need to File a Tax Return ? " question . It 's common enough that the IRS answers it right at the beginning of the Form 1040 Instructions , and it 's answered fairly thoroughly here : <URL> There 's about 20 questions in that checklist which are mostly pretty specialized , but assuming you did n't have taxes withheld that you 'd like to get back , and did n't have any retirement income/disbursements this year , the only interesting question is this : " Were you self-employed with earnings of more than $ 400.00 ? " Sounds like your losses outweighed your profits , and assuming you had no other income , I 'd say you 're fine not filing . Ca n't really speak to state law since that can vary so much , but your state 's laws are likely similar to federal , and you can probably find a very similar answer near the beginning of the instructions of your state 's income tax form .
My experience is in the UK , not Canada , but i imagine the situation is similar . It 's true that an index tracker will outperform the average managed fund . But it 's also true that there 's a lot more variation in performance in managed funds than in trackers ( naturally ) . That means that when people look at performance league tables , they see managed funds at the top , and they go for managed funds . That explains why index funds have n't taken over the market - people always think they can do better . The question is , of course , whether they can . Can you reliably pick a managed fund that will be in the top half of that league table five years down the line , rather than one which will have crashed into the below-the-index relegation zone ? You can find any number of pundits who will assure you that you can , and at least as many who will be equally certain that you ca n't . My two cents ( three cents Canadian ) is that you can , as long as you 're sensible and not greedy ; forget about any fund with ' growth ' , ' aggressive ' , or 'em erging markets ' in the title , and look for ones with a consistent track record over five years or more . It 's not a guarantee of future success , but i do think it 's a reasonable indication . I 'd be interested to see statistics about this , though . In particular , look for income funds - that 's where the money is invested in a diverse set of companies that pay good dividends ; the growth rate and volatility may or may not be better than an index tracker , but the dividends mean that the growth in value of the fund is less dependent on capital growth , shielding you from poor performance . For example , a good chunk of my savings are in the <URL> , which has beaten the FTSE all-share index by a modest amount over the last five years , and will probably beat it harder over the next five if they do n't include another crash ( a big if ! ) . On the subject of dividends , i do n't know how things work in Canada , but in the UK , an index tracker does n't pass on any of the dividends paid by the shares it notionally holds ; it just tracks the capital value , with the fund manager pocketing the payouts . I have a vague idea that an ETF does pass the dividends on to you , but i 'm not sure . As for websites , <URL> is good .
Index funds can be a very good way to get into the stock market . It 's a lot easier , and cheaper , to buy a few shares of an index fund than it is to buy a few shares in hundreds of different companies . An index fund will also generally charge lower fees than an " actively managed " mutual fund , where the manager tries to pick which stocks to invest for you . While the actively managed fund might give you better returns ( by investing in good companies instead of every company in the index ) that does n't always work out , and the fees can eat away at that advantage . ( Stocks , on average , are expected to yield an annual return of 4 % , after inflation . Consider that when you see an expense ratio of 1 % . Index funds should charge you more like 0.1 % -0.3 % or so , possibly more if it 's an exotic index . ) The question is what sort of index you 're going to invest in . The Standard and Poor 's 500 ( S&amp;P 500 ) is a major index , and if you see someone talking about the performance of a mutual fund or investment strategy , there 's a good chance they 'll compare it to the return of the S&amp;P 500 . Moreover , there are a variety of index funds and exchange-traded funds that offer very good expense ratios ( e.g. Vanguard 's ETF charges ~ 0.06 % , very cheap ! ) . You can also find some funds which try to get you exposure to the entire world stock market , e.g. Vanguard Total World Stock ETF , NYSE : VT ) . An index fund is probably the ideal way to start a portfolio - easy , and you get a lot of diversification . Later , when you have more money available , you can consider adding individual stocks or investing in specific sectors or regions . ( Someone else suggested Brazil/Russia/Indo-China , or BRICs - having some money invested in that region is n't necessarily a bad idea , but putting all or most of your money in that region would be . If BRICs are more of your portfolio then they are of the world economy , your portfolio is n't balanced . Also , while these countries are experiencing a lot of economic growth , that does n't always mean that the companies that you own stock in are the ones which will benefit ; small businesses and new ventures may make up a significant part of that growth . ) Bond funds are useful when you want to diversify your portfolio so that it 's not all stocks . There 's a bunch of portfolio theory built around asset allocation strategies . The idea is that you should try to maintain a target mix of assets , whatever the market 's doing . The basic simplified guideline about investing for retirement says that your portfolio should have ( your age ) % in bonds ( e.g. a 30-year-old should have 30 % in bonds , a 50-year-old 50 % . ) This helps maintain a balance between the volatility of your portfolio ( the stock market 's ups and downs ) and the rate of return : you want to earn money when you can , but when it 's almost time to spend it , you do n't want a sudden stock market crash to wipe it all out . Bonds help preserve that value ( but do n't have as nice of a return ) . The other idea behind asset allocation is that if the market changes - e.g. your stocks go up a lot while your bonds stagnate - you rebalance and buy more bonds . If the stock market subsequently crashes , you move some of your bond money back into stocks . This basically means that you buy low and sell high , just by maintaining your asset allocation . This is generally more reliable than trying to " time the market " and move into an asset class before it goes up ( and move out before it goes down ) . Market-timing is just speculation . You get better returns if you guess right , but you get worse returns if you guess wrong . Commodity funds are useful as another way to diversify your portfolio , and can serve as a little bit of protection in case of crisis or inflation . You can buy gold , silver , platinum and palladium ETFs on the stock exchanges . Having a small amount of money in these funds is n't a bad idea , but commodities can be subject to violent price swings ! Moreover , a bar of gold does n't really earn any money ( and owning a share of a precious-metals ETF will incur administrative , storage , and insurance costs to boot ) . A well-run business does earn money . Assuming you 're saving for the long haul ( retirement or something several decades off ) my suggestion for you would be to start by investing most of your money * in index funds to match the total world stock market ( with something like the aforementioned NYSE : VT , for instance ) , a small portion in bonds , and a smaller portion in commodity funds . ( For all the negative stuff I 've said about market-timing , it 's pretty clear that the bond market is very expensive right now , and so are the commodities ! ) Then , as you do additional research and determine what sort investments are right for you , add new investment money in the places that you think are appropriate - stock funds , bond funds , commodity funds , individual stocks , sector-specific funds , actively managed mutual funds , et cetera - and try to maintain a reasonable asset allocation . Have fun . * ( M
There are several reasons to pay for data instead of using Yahoo Finance , although these reasons do n't necessarily apply to you if you 're only planning to use the data for personal use . Yahoo will throttle you if you attempt to download too much data in a short time period . You can opt to use the Yahoo Query Language ( YQL ) , which does provide another interface to their financial data apart from simply downloading the CSV files . Although the rate limit is higher for YQL , you may still run into it . An API that a paid data provider exposes will likely have higher thresholds . Although the reliability varies throughout the site , Yahoo Finance is n't considered the most reliable of sources . You ca n't beat free , of course , but at least for research purposes , the Center for Research in Security Prices ( CRSP ) at UChicago and Wharton is considered the gold standard . On the commercial side , data providers like eSignal , Bloomberg , Reuters also enjoy widespread popularity . Although both the output from YQL and Yahoo 's current CSV output are fairly standard , they wo n't necessarily remain that way . A commercial API is basically a contract with the data provider that they wo n't change the format without significant prior notice , but it 's reasonable to assume that if Yahoo wanted to , they could make minor changes to the format and break many commercial applications . A change in Yahoo 's format would likely break many sites or applications too , but their terms of use do state that Yahoo " may change , suspend , or discontinue any aspect of the Yahoo! Finance Modules at any time , including the availability of any Yahoo! Finance Modules . Yahoo! may also impose limits on certain features and services or restrict your access to parts or all of the Yahoo! Finance Modules or the Yahoo! Web site without notice or liability . " If you 're designing a commercial application , a paid provider will probably provide technical support for their API . According to Yahoo Finance 's license terms , you ca n't use the data in a commercial application unless you specifically use their " badges " ( whatever those are ) . See <URL> . In <URL> , a Yahoo employee states : The Finance TOS is fairly specific . Redistribution of data is only allowed if you are using the badges the team has created . Otherwise , you can use YQL or whatever method to obtain data for personal use . The <URL> itself states that you may not : sell , lease , or sublicense the Yahoo! Finance Modules or access thereto or derive income from the use or provision of the Yahoo! Finance Modules , whether for direct commercial or monetary gain or otherwise , without Yahoo! 's prior , express , written permission In short , for personal use , Yahoo Finance is more than adequate . For research or commercial purposes , a data provider is a better option . Furthermore , many commercial applications require more data than Yahoo provides , e.g. tick-by-tick data for equities , derivatives , futures , data on mergers , etc. , which a paid data source will likely provide . Yahoo is also known for inaccuracies in its financial statements ; I ca n't find any examples at the moment , but I had a professor who enjoyed pointing out flaws in the 10K 's that he had come across . I 've always assumed this is because the data were manually entered , although I would assume EDGAR has some method for automatic retrieval . If you want data that are guaranteed to be accurate , or at least have a support contract associated with them so you know who to bother if it is n't , you 'll need to pay for it .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
The usual advice is that an emergency fund should aim to cover something in the region of 3 to 6 months living expenses . The exact amount is obviously a judgement for you to make based on your own circumstances . Once you have a comfortable safety net there is little point in padding it further unless your circumstances change significantly , and you would probably be better off diverting your savings into longer term ( and hopefully better performing ) investments .
No , time of day does n't matter . Its the whole day , it does n't matter if you sold in the morning or bought in the evening .
end question
start question
What are the pitfalls of loaning money to friends or family ? Is there a right way to do it ?
There are two levels to consider here : Small amounts ( To me , this means $ 20-30 ) - Just do it , if they pay you back , everything is fine . If they do n't , it 's not going to kill your friendship . In the latter case , do n't harp on them about it just let it slide and do n't loan them such money again Larger amounts - In general , do n't loan them money . If you can afford to lose the money just give it to them as a gift . I usually give them the money saying something like " If you need this money , just take it , if you want to pay me back , great . If not , that 's okay too " . If you are n't prepared to say that , loaning them money is probably not a good plan . That said , before loaning/giving anyone money ask yourself if it is good for them . If they have problems managing their money , or holding down a job , and you give them money , they are just going to come back for more later . In this type of situation , you should n't give/loan them money . But on the other hand , if a friend or family member has hit a rough patch and you know they are the kind of person that will be on their feet again soon , and you have nothing to lose , give them the money .
Whole Life is just an insurance product and an investment product wrapped into a single package . The only advantage is that since you 're forced to make payments to maintain the insurance , you 're forced to invest . It 's really just the " Christmas Club " or payroll-deduction idea , though it tries to claim otherwise . If you 're unable to make yourself set aside money for the future without that pressure , this advantage may have some value . Otherwise , probably not . And there are significant disadvantages . You 're giving up the ability to control your own investments , and paying for the convenience of not having to ( or being able to ) think about them . Not just in the agent 's commission , but in paying a relatively high ongoing rate for the investment " brokerage " service -- and keeping those fees low would make a significant difference in actual rate of return , which compounded over the years can make a large difference in actual earnings . There 's no free lunch . The insurance companies offer this because it makes a profit for them . That profit can ONLY come out of your pocket .
Depending on what you need to explain , you can submit your electronic return without the supplemental information and subsequently mail a Form 8453 with the additional information . This is helpful for form 8489 , for example , where you need to list every transaction reported by your stock broker on a 1099-B . See <URL> for more details on this form . If the information you need to submit an attachment for does n't follow one of the options on that form , you will likely need to file a paper return or use a paid tax preparation service/application . Limitations of FreeFile are explained here , along with a list of forms that are available : <URL> The " Attaching Statements " and " Write-in information " sections seem like they might apply to your situation . Attaching Statements - If you need to add statements and you ca n't use Form 8453 , U.S. Individual Income Tax Transmittal for an IRS e-file Return , to mail that information , you will not be able to use this program to efile your return Identity Protection PIN 's ( IP PIN ) - This program only supports the entry of a Primary taxpayer 's IP PIN . If the spouse or dependents have an IP PIN , you can not use this program to efile the return . Writing In Information - Your ability to " write in " additional information to explain an entry is generally limited to the 1040 forms and some of the more frequently submitted forms . If you need to write in additional information on a form , other than the 1040 series , you may not be able to use this program to efile your tax return . E-filing Forms - To efile forms , ( except Form 4868 ) they must be attached to a 1040 series form ( 1040 , 1040A or 1040EZ ) . Form Limitations - There may be Known Limitations of forms you plan to complete . Please review them . A form limitation may keep you from completing or e-filing your return .
Apparently , if you keep your tires ' air filled to the recommended level , your car will burn less gas . I loved <URL> at WikiHow , which confirmed what I had heard about air in tires , and had others to suggest , such as removing unnecessary items from inside and on your car ( such as bike racks , trailer balls ) as they can add to your car 's overall weight , causing more drag and using more gas .
In regards to your 1st question , if you are a US resident ( according to IRS rules ) and you have any foreign bank accounts , then you need to file a <URL> for every year in which any of these accounts has more than $ 10,000 . This is the way that IRS keeps track of substantial amounts of money kept by US residents in foreign accounts .
In the US you can get a <URL> when you buy a house that will cover major repairs for the first few years of owning a home . The costs vary based on age and the results of the home inspection . Ours cost ~ $ 250 a year . This was put into our closing costs . Unfortunately this market does have some disreputable companies that come im with prices that seem too good to be true . As is usually the case they are . Do research on the company you are getting the home warrenty from to make sure you are dealing with a reputable company that will honor its commitments . By having 20 % down you will avoid needing Mortgage insurance which will save you a considerable amout . My PMI cost me about $ 70 a month . However once you get to 20 % equity in your home the pmi drops off . So if you can put down 15 % you should be able to get out from under your pmi in a few years if you want to keep that 5 % cushion while making extra payments . The question is how much do you feel you need . So far owning a 70 year old home my extra maintence costs have been around 2500 a year . But they seem to be in 1k chunks every 4 or 5 months .
Fake stock market trading may teach you about trading , which is n't necessarily the same thing as investing . I think you need to understand how things work and how to read financial news and statistics before you start trading . Otherwise , you 're just going to get frustrated when you mysteriously win and lose funny money . I 'd suggest a few things : Start an investment club . I did this in college with a few friends , had a good time and we learned alot . Watch financial media . The Nightly Business Report on PBS used to be really good , although I have n't watched it since the long-running host retired . He 's a bit of a clown , but watch Cramer on CNBC -- listen to the guests and track stocks and sectors that he talks about often . Follow a few stocks in diverse sectors . Do research , listen to earnings calls . Read financial media . Pick up the Wall Street Journal and the Economist when time allows . Read the book reviews and read recommended titles that interest you . Do n't get distracted by exotic stuff . Also , do n't get into individual stocks until you have at least $ 5k to invest -- focus on saving and use ETFs or mutual funds . You should always invest in around a half dozen diversified stocks at a time , and doing that with less than $ 1,000 a stock will make it impossible to trade and make money -- If a $ 100 stock position goes up 20 % , you have n't cleared enough to pay your brokerage fees .
I 'd first put it in CDs or other short term account . Get through school first , then see where you land . If you have income that allows you to start a Roth IRA , I 'd go for that , but keep it safe in case you actually need it back soon . After school , if you do n't land a decent job fast , this money might be needed to live on . How long will it last if you take a few months to find work ? If you do find a good job , moving , and setting up an apartment has a cost . Once you 're there , I 'd refer you to the many " getting started " Q&amp;A s on this site .
Quite a few stock broker in India offer to trade in US markets via tie-up brokers in US . As an Indian citizen , there are limits as to how much FX you can buy , generally very large , should be an issue . The profits will be taxed in US as well as India [ you can claim relief under DTAA ]
Paypal has an account called " <URL> " for those who have a lot of transaction under $ 10 with " better " commission structure , 5 % +5 c per transaction ( rather than 2.9 % + 30c with regular merchant accounts )
Not at all . <URL> offers a book full of anecdotes on couples that earned money and saved their way to being millionaires . I believe about 1/3 or so had businesses , but the rest were employed and simply saved wisely . $ 3860/yr saved for 40 years at 8 % will return $ 1M . Adjust the numbers to hit a million sooner or reach a higher goal . The Author might be accused of survey bias . This is the phenomenon of studying the final results without looking at the pool of people years prior . Little Adv ' is correct that while 1/3 of millionaires may have gotten that way by starting a business , that says nothing about how many businesses need to start to find the one millionaire that resulted . I view the book more as a lesson of " spend beneath your means " and focus on his anecdotes of the dual income couples who saved their way to this status . If you are in no rush , get this book from your library and spend the few hours to read it . In response to my Friend Dilip 's comment , <URL> offers a good look at compound growth ( for the S&amp;P ) over time . The 40 years ending 2012 , which obviously include the ' lost decade , ' returned a CAGR of 9.78 % . Not to be confused with the average 11.43 % . When I pull the numbers for each year 's return and apply an annual $ 3860 deposit , the 40 years ends with $ 2.2 M . A 1 % fee , or 1 % lower return resulted in $ 1.6 M . If 8 % is n't conservative , of course you can run the numbers you wish . The 40 years contained both a lost decade and two great ones . Will the 3 decades post-lost average to get the Quad-Decade period to 8 % + ? I do n't know .
What does it mean that the bank will " hold you responsible " ? Clearly the money wo n't be credited . Will you be charged a fee like an NSF cheque ? Will they try to prosecute you ? They will pull the money out of your account . Do n't spend it even if it appears to clear . It could take days/weeks for the whole cycle to be completed . Yes you could be charged a fee . It is up to your bank/credit union Will they try to prosecute you ? There was fraud committed , one or more banks were involved . There will be an investigation . The question was how involved were you in the fraud . So yes you could be prosecuted . Is there any way to confirm whether a cashiers cheque is forged ? Could you for example tell your bank that you were uncertain of the origin , and ask them to confirm it ? Can you call the issuer and verify ( from the serial number ) that they did in fact issue a cheque for that amount with you as the payee ? Even calling the bank might not help . The first verification is that the bank exists , and that the account number and name match and that they did issue a check . But that does n't cover the situation where the person that sent you the check was n't who they claimed to be . That is the theft that could take weeks to find .
Some very general advice . Lifestyle borrowing is almost always a bad idea . You should limit your borrowing to where it is an investment decision or where it is necessary and avoid it when it is a lifestyle choice . For example , many people need to borrow to have a car/house/education or go without . Also , if you are unemployed for a long period of time and ca n't find work , charging up the credit cards seems very reasonable . However , for things like entertainment , travel , and other nice-to-haves can easily become a road to crushing debt . If you do n't have the cash for these types of things , my suggestion is to put off the purchase until you do . Note : I am not including credit cards that you pay off in full at the end of the month or credit used as a convenience as " borrowing "
If you own a bond and the interest rate goes up , the price on your bond goes down . You 're stuck with a loss of principal ( if you sell ) , or receiving a lower rate than what is available in the market . See also <URL> . I would personally invest in a bond ETF before looking at individual bonds . That will mitigate a number of risks associated with bonds .
I 'm not a financial guy . That being said , I think you can make a couple of common sense points here : The reason this site exists is because in some of these countries there just is n't an established way to create credit history . Partly because the infrastructure is risky to build . It may also be due to the corruption within a country . The really cool part about Kiva and these other lending tools might be that they can be an end run around those governments and are a 21st century approach to building the infrastructure for credit worthiness . That being said , you probably already realize , in this situation - you 're the bank - and you really ought to be acting somewhat like a bank : What factors can I look at in each situation to evaluate whether or not this loan will be paid back ? What unknown factors am I looking at ? Are they likely to be able to get their money back to the website in question ? I 'm also curious whether or not the good loans and opportunities are snatched up so quickly that all you are left with is the really high risk stuff . Anyway that 's my non-expert 0.02 .
You should include your RRSP on the balance sheet ( in a way that makes it clear that you ca n't access the money easily ) , and include the " fake " asset as part of that . As a debt owed to it that it can reasonably expect to be repaid , it does indeed form an asset of the RRSP so it 's not realy fake at all .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
Assuming the rates are the same , and they will remain the same , and assuming that there is no real difference between the loans . Then by the simplest math it does n't make difference in the approach to paying the loan . If the loans worked more like credit cards , where there is a minimum payment of x % of the balance of y $ whichever is greater , and if the goal was to stretch a fixed amount of money over 4 accounts then paying off the smallest balance first makes sense . It allows the minimum payment for that account to be applied to the other accounts . If they had different rates the higher rate could make the most sense . That leaves only 2 reasons to pick an unbalanced approach to paying off the loans : psychology and logistics . Getting rid of one loan quickly makes you feel better , even though it does n't make you any closer to being debt free . If one of the loans is with a separate lender then it cuts down on the amount of transactions in your bank account and email , or snail mail . I have heard horror stories of people who left school unsure of how many loans they had , only to discover they forgot about one until it went to collections . They key to your question is that the loans are essentially the same , if they were n't then the math becomes more complex because it depends on the rate and balances .
A " fiat " currency is non-convertible paper currency that a government establishes as legal tender . Most countries today are using fiat currencies . The rest have currencies pegged ( or convertible to ) US Dollars ( which is a fiat currency ) . In the past , money was usually based on precious metals such as gold or silver . Until the end of the gold standard , you could theoretically go the the US Treasury with a US Note or Federal Reserve Note and convert the note into a fixed quantity of gold or silver ( depending on the note ) . The US had a bi-metallic currency policy for political reasons , which means that money was backed by both gold and silver .
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
end question
start question
Why is my credit score now being ranked on a scale of 501 to 990 ?
IIRC it 's not a FICO score , as mentioned <URL> , too . That said , apart from borrowing money to optimise your credit score as a hobby , my understanding is that once you 're above a FICO score of 750 , it pretty much does n't matter how close to 800 you get .
I 'm sorry , but there really is no silver bullet and the answer is fairly obvious . You need to find people who will extend credit to you , even if the terms are n't ideal , and establish a record of always paying your bills on time . It may take a while , but eventually your credit will start to recover .
If I recall correctly , in order to activate it without another human 's intervention I had to call from a phone number they had on file . Otherwise , I believe I would have had to speak to a rep and do it that way . Presumably , that would entail some sort of verification that I was indeed the legitimate owner of the account . Another possibility , which has little to nothing to do with your account security , is management of the number-space . Cards that are not activated in some period of time ( 180 days ? ) can easily be cancelled . Whether this means that they then reuse the number or not , I have no idea . This may be question of reducing their liability , by reducing the number of possible cards that can be used fraudulently , since they ca n't be used until activated . ( Granted , if they still have the sticker on them and there are no safeguards built into the activation process , it would be a trivial matter to activate the card . )
but I ca n't help but feel that these low rates are somehow a gimmick to trick people into taking out loans Let me help you : it 's not a feeling . That 's exactly what it is . Since the economy is down , people do n't want to jeopardize what they have , and keep the cash in their wallets . But , while keeping the money safe in the pocket , it makes the economy even worse . So in order to make people spend some money , the rates go down so that the cost of money is lower . It also means that the inflation will be on the rise , which is again a reason not to keep money uninvested . So yes , the rates are now very low , and the housing market is a buyers ' market , so it does make sense to take out a loan at this time ( provided of course that you can actually repay it over time , and do n't take loans you ca n't handle ) . Of course , you should n't be taking loans just because the rates are low . But if you were already planning on purchasing a house - now would be a good time to go on with that .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
Do n't cancel a card then apply for a new one from the same place . Ask The bank if you can switch to a different card program . If you are a good customer they will do so willingly . It keeps your account as an active customer . I have noticed that in the last few years the bank has been adamant that I should witch to a different program . When it is to my advantage I have done so . The only thing that changes is the words on the card , account number , expiration date and security code . There is no hit to my credit score . In fact with all the data breaches in the last few years every one of my card has undergone an account number change anyway .
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
Congratulations ! You own a ( very small ) slice of Apple . As a stockholder , you have a vote on important decisions that the company makes . Each year Apple has a stockholder meeting in Cupertino that you are invited to . If you are unable to attend and vote , you can vote by proxy , which simply means that you register your vote before the meeting . You just <URL> , which was held on February 26 , 2016 . They elected people to the board of directors , chose an accounting firm , and voted on some other proposals . Votes are based on the number of shares you own ; since you only own one share , your vote is very small compared to some of the other stockholders . Besides voting , you are entitled to receive profit from the company , if the company chooses to pay this out in the form of dividends . Apple 's <URL> for the last several quarters has been $ 0.52 per share , which means that you will likely receive 4 small checks from Apple each year . The value of the share of stock that you have <URL> . Today , it is worth about $ 100 . You can sell this stock whenever you like ; however , since you have a paper certificate , in order to sell this stock on the stock market , you would need to give your certificate to a stock broker before they can sell it for you . The broker will charge a fee to sell it for you . Apple has a website for stockholders at <URL> with some more information about owning Apple stock . One of the things you 'll find here is information on how to update your contact information , which you will want to do if you move , so that Apple can continue to send you your proxy materials and dividend checks .
The transfer may impact utilization , as discussed in <URL> ? My accepted answer discusses that aspect of this question . Of course , applying for that card ( if new ) will impact other aspects of the scoring such as credit inquiries and average account age . One thing to keep in mind , if it 's not obvious , the score is a snapshot , changing as any balances are reported , weekly or more often depending on how many accounts there are . Balances and their impact will change as they are paid . So doing anything to save interest is money in your pocket , and once paid off , your score returns to normal . Credit inquiries have a long ( two year ) effect , and things like missed payments and unpaid cards .
Risk is the capital you have staked in pursuit of profit . The danger is that you lose what you have risked . For some bets ( risks ) , you can get insurance to cover for losses . Now the " game " of Landlord and Tenant requires you to play fully by the rules set forth by your legislators . In your case , that is the legislators of the State of Texas . Without knowing those rules , you could be liable ( open to civil prosecution ) for violating those rules . Tenants could be savvy to those rules or savvy enough to hire someone , a lawyer , who knows those rules . As well , in the game of Landlord and Tenant , you must ascertain the creditworthiness of your would-be tenant . If the tenant fails to pay rent , that tenant can detain the residence . You will incur additional outlays to gain possession of your property ( ownership in your rental ) . Now the game of Landlord vs Landlord is different . You ca n't pick up houses easily enough and even if you could , likely the expense of doing so could wipe out any would profits from having the house as a rental . So , in Landlord vs Landlord , you get constrained by where your rental sits . Thus you must forecast what will the neighborhood look like in five , ten , fifteen years . Will population swell and rents outrun the effects of cash accretion by the banking system ( aka inflation ) ? Will population fall and along with it employers and jobs ? Will there be more rentals than needed for a shrinking head count ? Could landlords move into the area in a few years , build new rental units that offer more at a better price than I can ? What will a capital improvement schedule look like to keep my rental unit competitive vis-a-vis other rental units ? How will the sum of a capital improvement schedule and other outlays affect return ? Will I earn any profit at all ? How does a 10-year future of earnings compare to taking the same sum and buying 10 year Treasury bonds ?
There are lots of sub-parts to your question . Let 's takle them one at a time . Should I worry about an IRA at this age ? Absolutely ! Or at least some form of retirement account . When you are young is the BEST time to start putting money into a retirement account because you have so much time for it to grow . <URL> . Even if you can only afford to put a very small amount in the account , do it ! You will have to put a heck of a lot less money into the account over your working career if you start now . Is there a certain amount you need for the IRA deduction ? No . Essentially with a traditional IRA you can just subtract the amount you deposited ( up to the contribution limit ) from your income when calculating your taxes . What kind of IRA should I get ? I suggest a ROTH IRA , but be warned that with that kind you get the tax breaks when you retire , not now . If you think taxes will be higher in 40 years or so , then the Roth is a clear winner . Traditional IRA : Tax deduction this year for contribution ; investment plus gains are taxed as income when you take the money out at retirement . Roth IRA : Investment amount is taxed in the year you put it in ; no taxes on investment amount or gains when you take it out at retirement . Given the long horizon that you will be investing , the money is likely going to at least double . So the total amount you are taxed on over your lifetime would probably be less with the ROTH even if tax rates remain the same . Is the 401K a better option ? If they offer a match ( most do ) then it is a no-brainer , the employer 401K always comes out on top because they are basically paying you extra to put money into savings . If there is no match , I suggest a Roth because company 401K plans usually have hidden fees that are much higher than you are going to pay for setting up your own IRA or Roth IRA with a broker .
<URL> is an article that claims to know something about it . Here are a selection of quotes : The IRS says there are several ways a return can be selected for audit and the first is via the agency 's computer-scoring system known as Discriminant Information Function , or DIF . The IRS evaluates tax returns based on IRS formulas , and DIF is based on deductions , credits and exemptions with norms for taxpayers in each of the income brackets . The actual scoring formula to determine which tax returns are most likely to be in error is a closely guarded secret . But Nath , a tax attorney in the Washington , D.C. , area , says it 's no mystery the system is designed to screen for returns that could put more money in the government Treasury . So what is likely to trigger a discriminant information function red flag ? Higher incomes . Income other than basic wages ; for example , contract payments . Unreported income , such as investment returns . Home-based businesses , especially when in addition to salary income , and home-office deductions . Noncash charitable deductions . Large business meal and entertainment deductions . Excessive business auto usage . Losses from an activity that could be viewed as a hobby rather than a business . Large casualty losses .
In the United States , nobody is obligated to report information on your to the credit bureaus . Doing so is an incentive they hold to keep you honest . If repossession of an item is n't an option , lenders have little recourse besides hurting your credit . It is n't all that hard to declare bankruptcy , and lenders are n't allowed to threaten ( or act on ) you with harm . <URL> Furthermore , companies are n't even required to report accurately it seems . The law simply says that you can have it corrected , not that companies are bound for accuracy in the first place .
Age does n't signify , except that being younger means you have a shorter credit history by definition . Re what affects credit score : <URL> . Basically , the obvious : demonstrating you can ( or ca n't ) be trusted to handle credit responsibly . That 's what the score is trying to measure and predict , after all . If you are careful with your money , that will already put you well above the average , and the credit score will look after itself . You really do n't have to worry much about it until you start borrowing stupidly or fail to make most payments on time or otherwise give folks reason to worry about your willingness and ability to pay .
I 've never heard of such a thing , but seems like if such a product existed it would be easily manipulated by the big trading firms - simply bet that trading volume will go up , then furiously buy and sell shares yourself to artificially drive up the volume . The fact that it would be so easily manipulated makes me think that no such product exists , but I could be wrong .
Credit utilization ( and therefore , your credit score ) is n't impacted by one 's mortgage . I have a current mortgage and saw a zero utilization the one month that I paid my credit cards in full just before the bill was cut . What will change is your borrowing ability . Your debt to income will drop and the payment you used to make will be available to service a future debt if you wish . Note - obviously , a regularly paid on time mortgage helps one 's score and late payments will hurt . I am addressing just the ' utilization ' portion which is what i think the OP is asking . The credit report , strangely enough , does not take income into account . The focus instead is on utilization .
As a general premise : In most of the online transactions in case of dispute the benefit of doubt is given to the customer . IE if the customer refuses to pay and claims that its not his transaction , the card company reverses the charges and does not pay the merchant ( or recovers if its already paid ) . There are many types of online vendors who use a variety of methods to ensure that they are not at loss . Some of these are : Ensuring entry of 3-4 digit CVV indicating that if someone used the card , he was in possession of it . However anyone at a POS while swiping the card can make a note of this and misuse the card . Additional address/ZIP code validation . This ensure slightly better protection that for a misuse , the card number , the CVV , the address need to be known . In spite of this online merchants Factoring in the probable loss due to fraud and marking up the price of the product to that extent . Certain merchants like say Netflix is not bothered about any validation as their service involves delivering a movie to the doorstep everyday and they would know the customer much better and can easily track down errant subscribers . Plus the cost of fees is for a month of service recovered in advance . This may hold good for one time occassioanal delivery by say Amazon as the cost of tracking and getting back the goods is high . Even if the subscriber makes away with a DVD on the first go , the loss to Netflix is just the cost of DVD copy though the gain to thief may be the market price of such DVD . Similar is the case with say Norton or other virus service providers , they would simply deactivate the product code ( if paid by card and later refused ) when you go online and the purchase would be of no use . The online industry is also plagued with cases where the transactions are actually made by card owners , who after enjoying the services dispute the claim with the card providers . Certain countries like India have now mandated that all online card transactions be validated by additional password apart from card number and CVV . The password needs to be generated by contacting the merchant bank before online transactions are allowed . Of course there is still a debate if the merchant is outside India , why should he comply with the additional norm . If an card issued outside India is used in India , they may not have additional password issued by their card providers .
Yes , wait . While the bank promises to process the deposit quickly , there is still a window of a number of days . Many people have found themselves with high overdraft fees when the withdraws came before the deposits . best case : it all works out worse case : high fees worst case : the overdraft causes a ripple effect across accounts , or the airline transaction is voided .
Found this : <URL> also <URL> Experian 800‑493‑1058 TBD Equifax 866‑640‑2273 Press 3 0 . TransUnion 800‑916‑8800 Press 2 at each prompt . Hope this helps !
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
end question
start question
Does the Foreign Tax Credit cancel out all US tax liability ?
In my experience , the answer is a guarded yes . Keep in mind that you still owe the USA a tax return in order to claim the benefits of the various deductions and credits . There is also AMT , Alternative Minimum Tax . It is a completely separate income taxation system , and may treat some of the foreign items differently . The goal of AMT was to keep rich folks , like you :-) , from paying too little . Once you are residing and earning overseas , you probably need a CPA or similar expert creating or at least reviewing your US tax returns .
Emancipation Day falls on the 16th , but is being observed on the 15th this year . This is observed only in Washington , DC , therefore the IRS is closed on the 15th . This means the next business day is the 18th . Note that Maine and Massachusetts residents have until the 19th to file because there is a state holiday ( Patriot 's Day ) on April 18th . <URL>
A tax like this means that you pay 75 % on the amount of your income over 1 million Euros . <URL> gives the current rates . So : Income Share Tax Rate Up to $ 6,011 0 % Between $ 6,012 - $ 11,991 5.5 % Between $ 11,992 - $ 26,631 14 % Between $ 26,632 - $ 71,397 30 % Between $ 71,398 - $ 151,200 41 % Above $ 151,200 45 % So if you are earning $ 1000001 , you would pay the same tax as someone earning $ 1000000 , plus an extra 75c . All income taxes work this way .
Assuming its in the US : <URL> , and such things are usually treated as " red flags " for audit ( and no , golf club memberships are not deductible either ) . The food expenses are not deductible in their entirety as well , only up to 50 % of the actual expense , and only if it is directly business related . From what you 've described , it sounds like if you have an audit coming you 'll be in trouble . The purposes and activities of a club , not its name , will determine whether or not you can deduct the dues . You can not deduct dues paid to : Country clubs , Golf and athletic clubs , Airline clubs , Hotel clubs , and Clubs operated to provide meals under circumstances generally considered to be conducive to business discussions .
<URL> and <URL> on the ATO website provide some information on tax rates . They 're rather lengthy and there 's a few exceptions , but essentially , your entire foreign income , even if held overseas , is taxable . Australians are taxed worldwide .
You can make estimated tax payments on Form 1040-ES . Most people who make such payments need to do it quarterly because the typical reasons for making estimated payments is something like self-employment income that a person will get throughout the year . If you have a one-time event like a single , large sale of stock , however , there 's nothing wrong with doing it just one quarter out of the year . When it comes time to file your taxes , part of the calculate is whether you were timely quarter-by-quarter not just for the entire year , so if you do have a big " one-time " event mid-year , do n't wait until the end of the year to file an estimated payment . Of course , if the event is at the end of the year , then you can make it a 4th quarter estimated payment .
The uptick rule is gone , but it was weakly reintroduced <URL> , applied to all publicly traded equities : Under the terms of the rule , a circuit breaker would be triggered if a stock falls by 10 % or more in a single day . At that point , short selling would only be allowed if the price is above the current national best bid , a restriction that would apply for the rest of the day and the whole of the following day . Derivatives are not yet restricted in such ways because of their spontaneous nature , requiring a short to increase supply ; however , this latest rule widens options spreads during collapses because the exemption for hedging is now gone , and what 's more a tool used by options market makers , shorting the underlying to offset positive delta , now has to go to the back of the selling line during a panic . Bonds are not restricted because for one there is n't much interest in shorting because bonds usually do n't have enough variance to exceed the cost of borrowing , and many do not trade frequently enough because even the cost to trade bonds is expensive , so arranging a short in its entirety will be expensive . The preferred method to short a bond is with swaps , swaptions , etc. .
If you built the deck yourself , you will need to retain copies of your materials receipts ( note that tools purchased can not be claimed ) . If you hired a contractor to do the work , the contractor must be registered for the GST and you must retain the invoice . All work must have been completed between January 27 , 2009 and February 1st , 2010 . The CRA will include a new schedule in your 2009 income tax package that will help you claim the tax credit . The credit is 15 % of the eligible expenses over $ 1,000 but less than $ 10,000 . For example , if you spent $ 10,000 , your credit would be ( $ 10,000 - $ 1,000 ) x 15 % or $ 1,350 . The HRTC is a non-refundable tax credit , which is used to reduce your taxes payable . It is not claimed against income . For example , if you had taxes payable for $ 12,000 for 2009 and had eligible HRTC expenses of $ 10,000 , your tax bill would be reduced by $ 1,350 to $ 10,650 . The Canada Revenue Agency has some excellent information on their website at the following URL <URL>
Contributions are post-tax , so there 's no direct tax benefit to choosing a year . I just made a 2010 contribution today , and the institution 's form explicitly asks me if I want it on 2010 or 2011 . The primary advantage of backdating like this is being able to contribute 5k more over your lifetime than otherwise possible , under the timing constraints . While there may be a year in the future which you do n't contribute the max , contributing now lets you build up earnings tax free . For '10 vs ' 11 , you 're probably holding cash so it 's not a big deal , but over five years is a long time to hold cash or invest with tax penalty .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
The estate tax laws change almost year to year , so an explanation of bypass trust is probably in order . For this example , assume a $ 1 million estate exemption . If a couple has $ 2 million in assets , you 'd think they can pass it along with no estate tax . But when the husband dies , and the wife has $ 2M in assets , on her death , the excess million is subject to estate tax . Enter the bypass trust . On hubby 's death , the maximum exemption amount ( here , the million ) goes into the trust . The wife is permitted limited withdrawal , usually just interest , but the principal is out of her estate . Now , to answer the question , no , the annual limit does n't apply , but as the trust is not irrevocable , the lifetime limit does n't come in to play . Often , these trusts are worded so the limit in effect the year you die is the amount that funds the trust . Else , one might need an attorney visit every year .
It 's the same result either way . Say the bills are $ 600 , and you are reimbursed $ 400 . You 'd be able to write off $ 400 as part of the utilities that are common expenses , but then claim the $ 400 as income . I 'd stick with that , and have contemporaneous records supporting all cash flow . You also can take 2/3 of any other maintenance costs that most homeowners ca n't . Like snow removal , lawn care , etc. .
No . An exchange rate tells you the exchange rate , that 's all . Changes in exchange rates are a little more interesting because they suggest economic changes ( or anticipation of such ) , but since the exchange rate is the composite of many economic forces , determining what changes may be in action from an exchange rate change is not really possible .
First - get a professional tax consultation with a NY-licensed CPA or EA . At what point do I need to worry about collecting sales taxes for the city and state of New York ? Generally , from the beginning . <URL> . At what point do I need to worry about record-keeping to report the income on my own taxes ? From the beginning . Even before that , since you need the records to calculate the costs of production and expenses . I suggest starting recording everything , as soon as possible . What sort of business structures should I research if I want to formalize this as less of a hobby and more of a business ? You do n't have to have a business structure , you can do it as a sole proprietor . If you 're doing it for-profit - I suggest treating it as a business , and reporting it on your taxes as a business ( Schedule C ) , so that you could deduct the initial losses . But the tax authorities do n't like business that keep losing money , so if you 're not expecting any profit in the next 3-4 years - keep it reported as a hobby ( Misc income ) . Talk to a licensed tax professional about the differences in tax treatment and reporting . You will still be taxed on your income , and will still be liable for sales tax , whether you treat it as a hobby or as a business . Official business ( for-profit activity ) will require additional licenses and fees , hobby ( not-for-profit activity ) might not . Check with the local authorities ( city/county/State ) .
IRS refunds are not taxable . State/local refunds are taxable , if you itemized your deductions for that year , to the extent that the overpayment provided tax benefit . IRS <URL> to calculate that . Just to clarify : this is taxable in the year received . You do not need to amend the prior years . So if you received a $ 100 refund for State taxes you paid in 2010 in the year 2012 - it will appear on your 1040 for the year 2012 , no need to amend 2010 .
If you are married , your wife is not your dependant . You said you file jointly , that wo n't change . In effect , the income gets stacked on top of yours , whatever bracket you were at with no income from your wife , all of her income starts at that bracket . You should understand the W4 process and try to get your combined withholdings to be close to what 's due .
You normally only pay taxes on the difference between the sale price and the <URL> of the asset . In your example , you would probably pay taxes on the $ 10 difference , not the full sale price of $ 110 . If you paid a commission , however , you would be taxed on your gain minus the commission you paid . Since you held the asset for less than a year , you would n't pay the <URL> of 20 % ; you 'd be taxed on the capital gain as if it were ordinary income , which depends on your federal income tax bracket . Also , littleadv makes a good point about <URL> too , so that 's another part of the equation to consider as well .
The US mint produces several gold coins . The two that are produced each year are the American Buffalo , which is 24k gold , and the ( much older ) American Gold Eagle , which is 22k . Both coins are bullion coins minted in specific fraction of Troy ounces ( 1 oz to 1/10 oz ) , although they also bear a face value , which is much lower than their metal value . The mint produces these bullion coins in normal finish , and distribute them from a series of dealers . There are many large sellers of gold in the US , and they are generally competitive and reliable as long as you stick to those bullion ( and not rare , antique , or so called investment grade ) coins . Examples include Kitco , Blanchard , and Apmex . The mint also strikes these coins in special proof , reverse proof , etc finish for collectors . It sells these coins both directly and through its network of retailers . Those coins are sold at a high premium over melt value , and are a very dicey proposition from an investment return standpoint . The US mint also produces a variety of commemorative coins , some of which are minted in gold and silver . These gold coins are typically 22k , and contrary to the bullion coins above , they are minted in weights that mimic those of the old , pre-1929 circulation gold coins . They are not simple fraction of Troy ounces . Here is an example of a commemorative for 2011 : - <URL> - <URL>
They have a relationship with Transunion . Soft . No record of the credit pull on your report . No It 's supplied by one of the three large scoring agencies . There is no one FICO score , each of the big three will differ a bit .
FBAR is enforced by the IRS , and OVDP is administered by the IRS , and as part of the program your tax returns will be examined . So I 'd personally say that the answer is yes - treat it as part of the tax preparation fees . If you want to deduct tax preparation fees , you can do it as part of your itemized deductions , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold , so yes - you have to itemize . It is entered on <URL> .
end question
start question
When filing MFS ( US ) , do I need my separated spouses W-2 ?
You will need her social security number to file as MFS . You do not need her W-2 . The only other caveat is that if she elects to itemize her deductions , you will have to as well ( and vice versa ) . From the 1040 instructions : If you are married and file a separate return , you generally report only your own income , exemptions , deductions , and credits . Generally , you are responsible only for the tax on your own income . Different rules apply to people in community property states ; see Pub . 555 VA is not a community property state . There are 8 <URL> : Arizona , California , Idaho , Louisiana , Nevada , New Mexico , Texas , Washington , and Wisconsin . In these states , income is allocated per the community property laws ( not the same in all the states ) . In this case you would be needing the wife 's W2 .
The value of debt is that it allows you to profit from the return of equity beyond the amount of actual net equity you own . Of course , this only works if the cost of borrowing is less than your return on equity . Market timing matters a great deal but is n't accounted for in this view . For my answer I would like to hand-wave away market timing considerations . One plausible justification is that you could default on your current home and then immediately go buy one of equal value . If you buy a new home of a lesser value ( due to lack of funds ) and then prices appreciate , then you missed some opportunity cost but probably not $ 100k worth of it . Moving on , here are some helpful assumptions I 'll make . You currently have a net worth of P Borrowing with good credit ( which you have now ) costs you R1 % yield , with a limit of A1 You simply do n't borrow at all if you have bad credit The time value of money to you , or your average investment yield is R2 % You make S dollars per year at your job more than what you spend You will retire in X years . I 'll ignore performance of your portfolio after retirement and only seek to optimize F , which will be your net worth upon retirement . In either case , your current net worth is earning the R2 rate . We can convert this for both your current net worth and future savings using <URL> . Present to future value F = P ( 1 + R2 ) ^ x Annual to future value F = S ( ( 1 + R2 ) ^ x - 1 ) / R2 Adding these together is sufficient to obtain F in the case that you have no borrowing power . The case where you do not default and maintain your credit score is different due to an initial $ 100k penalty and the amortized value of borrowing power . In a completely theoretical sense , you get an effective ( R2-R1 ) yield on all borrowed money . The future value will be the following : F = A1 ( 1 + R2-R1 ) ^ x One step is missing , however , which is to convert this value ( the value of having a good credit score ) into present value to compare to value of your defaulting . P of borrowing power = F / ( 1 + R2 ) ^ x = A1 { ( 1 + R2-R1 ) / ( 1 + R2 ) } ^ x Now , let 's put some specific values in . Say that you can borrow $ 300k with your good credit history and this applies for the next 25 years , after which you retire . The borrowing rate is 7 % and the time-value of money to you is 10 % . I would then calculate : P of borrowing power = $ 58 k < $ 100 k This indicates that it would be more economical to default . Of course , some people might point out that it will be removed from your record after 7 years . If you plug 7 years instead of 25 years into the equation , almost no assumptions about rates will lead to the option of keeping your house being preferable . So in a nutshell , the value of your credit is probably less than $ 100k in a purely mathematical sense . But there are other factors too . If you do n't have that borrowing ability maybe you would n't be able to borrow money to start the business of your dreams . If you are a rock star entrepreneur , then time-value of money to you could be 1,000 % yield , sure , then maybe you could make the above numbers work ( to favor keeping the house ) . I 've also neglected ethics . As other people point out , it would be like stealing from the bank .
Your daughter can give you ( and also as many other persons as she likes , for that matter ) $ 14K or less each year as a gift without needing to file a Federal gift tax return . She does not have to report the money anywhere on her Federal income tax return or anywhere else . In particular , she does not get to deduct that money in arriving at what is called the Adjusted Gross Income or the Taxable Income on her income tax return . In other words , that $ 14K is coming out of money which she has in her bank accounts , and on which she has already paid income tax . All she has to do is write you a check or hand over cash or buy you a car or whatever . ( But be aware that the $ 14K exemption applies to the totality of all gifts given to you by your daughter that year , including birthday , anniversary , Christmas presents etc. , not just cash or check ) . You , as the recipient , do not need to declare the $ 14K that you will receive from her as income and pay income tax on it to the Federal Government . You do n't owe gift tax either ( even if the gift exceeds $ 14K in any year ) : gift tax is assessed on the donor , not the recipient ( except in very unusual circumstances ) . Since Texas has no income tax , there is no State income tax issue for you either . Some of this may be inapplicable if you and/or your daughter are not US citizens or US tax residents or if State gift tax rules have different exemptions in the State in which your daughter resides .
Credit cards are great . You get free money for 30 + days and a bunch of additional benefits like insurance , extended warranties and reward programs . When vendors do n't behave , you dispute the charge with the credit card and they deal with it on your behalf . Just get a fee-free American Express card and pay the balance off each month . There 's nothing wrong with using cash either , but I would avoid debit cards like the plague .
You do n't need to keep receipts for most things , and if you are not going to itemize your deductions ( which as a college student , you probably wo n't ) , you need even fewer . Things that you should always keep : Your last pay stub for the year , to check against your W-2 ( optional , but possibly useful ) . Anything related to investments ( buying/selling stock , IRA contributions , etc. ) Anything related to buying/selling property . If you are itemizing your deductions , you want to keep receipts for anything that you can itemize . Some common things are : State and local property and income taxes Medical expenses Charitable contributions Unreimbursed job related expenses Another thing that you should do , but few people do , is keep track of your online purchases , since many states require you to pay sales tax on those purchases . Of course , the state has no way of knowing what you buy online , so it is all done on the honor system .
As someone who 's currently shopping for some winter wheels and has the raised blood pressure to go with that , I 've got a few suggestions as to what would make me pick up the phone and call your or email you if you 're advertising a vehicle . Keep in mind that if you 're willing to deal with the additional hassle , you 'll normally get the most money for a used car if you sell it privately . If it is worth the additional effort though is both a matter of judgement and if you 're willing to put up with strange people like me :) . Depending on the value of the vehicle and its rarity/desirability , you 're looking at newspaper ads ( probably wo n't get you much of a response these days ) , craigslist , Autotrader and similar , and last but not least , ebay . If you 're trying to sell something that 's easy to find because there are five at every street corner ( think beige minivan ) , skip ebay . If it 's worth below 5k-6k , I would n't bother with places where you have to pay to advertise , which leaves CL for the cheap stuff - that said , I 'd still stick it on CL if it 's advertised in other places . Heck , it 's free after all . The figure out what sort of money you 're asking for . Check the resources like KBB.com and have a look at your local CL for similar vehicles . Out here , certain types of vehicles ( for example , Jeeps ) sell quickly and often above even KBB.com . A little market research will help you come up with a good price . Just do n't do things like asking a massively inflated price for a vehicle because you paid $ x five years ago . All this shows that you have no idea what your vehicle is worth . Oh , and I 'd always work out what the minimum I 'd take is - leave yourself some haggle room but do n't undersell the vehicle . Once you know where you advertise and for how much , pull together the basic facts for your vehicles and the points that would make it stand out . Basic facts about the car should include engine size , type of transmission , if it 's AWD ( where applicable ) , mileage . Color I can see on the pictures , but it 's nice to include that , too . If you have service records , recently replaced a big ticket item ( think transmission or similar ) or had a very recent service , especially a big one where you had a timing belt and waterpump changed , mention it . Do n't say the vehicle has a new engine if that was put in 100k miles ago , that 's nice to mention but it 's not new . If nobody 's ever smoked in it , mention it . If it 's got other outstanding features ( super low mileage , summer only use etc ) make sure to mention it that , too . Next , if it 's got any faults that you know of - especially obvious ones - disclose them . People like me will most likely find the leaking shock absorber and the rust holes in the floor anyway , and it makes a much better impression if you do tell us about them beforehand . Trying to tell someone that your banana-shaped car that looks like the Blue Man Group used it for practise is actually pristine and accident-free is n't going to go down very well . Next , pull together the paperwork - make sure you 've got the title ( if there is a lien on the title , check with the lienholder before advertising the car so you know their procedure for releasing the title ) , any maintenance records you have , manuals , receipts etc. . If the vehicle has a salvage title , try to find out why and mention it in the ad . I 've just had a comedian phone me while I was driving to see his vehicle and leave a message that he did n't have a title and did n't seem to be willing to bother to get one , either . Obviously that put me in the right frame of mind , given that it was a 200 mile round trip . So do n't do it - if you ca n't get a title , the schmuck you sold it to will have even less of a chance of getting one . And given that you are in California , a lot of people ( including myself ) react really badly to three years ' worth of back registration , missing smog , expired registrations on something I 'd expect to test drive etc. . Essentially anything that would stop a potential cash buyer to drive it away on the spot . Next , clean the car - you know , the five years ' of accumulated McD wrappers and inch thick layer of dirt ( I 'm only partially kidding , I 've seem some pretty horrible stuff recently ) . Spend the two hours it takes to clean it or pay to have it valeted or detailed . Clean , shiny cars sell a lot better than a rolling recycling container . Oh , and last - make the effort take some decent photos . The more the merrier , shot in daylight ( no photographing a black car after sunset ) and if there is any damage , an additional photo or two showing the damage would be nice . Stick the on photobucket or similar and put the links in your craigslist ad so you do n't restrict yourself to the microscopic photos that you normally get on there . As to payment , I 'd either take cash , meet the buyer at his bank where he draws out a cashiers check in front of your eyes , or , well , cash . No Kauri shells , deeds on bridges in Brooklyn or anything else . Be prepared to take a deposit - a
Without more information about what tax bracket you are in , I can not make a recommendation about what your best option is , but here are a few things to consider : You can still contribute to the HSA until April 15th of next year if you have not contributed your allowable maximum ( for the current year that is the annual maximum / 12 * the number of months you were covered by a high-deductible plan ) . Contributions to the HSA are pre-tax and will reduce your tax liability , if you are in a higher tax bracket , the money saved in taxes may outweigh the maintenance fee . If the invested funds are returning better than inflation and the maintenance fees , it does not hurt you to leave the funds in place . Though you may not currently have a high deductible plan available , the health insurance market is moving in that direction and you may find yourself back in a high deductible plan before too long . ( I would wait at least until the next open enrollment to make my final decision . ) The deductible that qualifies is currently $ 1250 single or $ 2500 family If there are any qualified expenses , you can use those funds without incurring further tax and maintenance fees . ( For example if you could benefit from LASIK , that would be one way to empty the account .
To start trading at a minimum you need 3 things ; Bank Account : This again is not must , but most preferred to transact . Quite a few broker would insist on this . Demat Account : This is must as all shares on NSE are held electronically . The custodians are CSDL or NSDL both Government entities . These do n't offer services directly to customer , but via other financial institutions like Banks and Large Brokers . Broker Account : This is required to buy or sell securities . If you are only buying in IPO , this is not required as one can directly participate in IPO and Broker is not involved . However if you want to buy and sell on NSE you would need a broker account . Quite a few financial institutes offer all 3 services or 2 services [ Demat/Broker ] . The fee structure and online service etc are differentiators . You can take a look at options and decide the best one to use .
If both spousal units are US citizens , they have unlimited transfer ability , no gift tax issue .
You 'll have to fill out the whole tax return , because the rate of tax payable on your capital gains depends on your total taxable income . And in any case , if you have capital gains you probably have other income of some kind that 's not fully accounted for in your PAYE code .
This entirely depends on the individual store 's policies . In general , stores are not required to accept returns at all . So when they do accept returns , they can put any conditions they want on them . In the past , the original receipt was the only record of a sale . When you returned the item , they would write on the original receipt , so that it could not be used again to return the same item . They would not accept photocopies ( or digital pictures ) because there was no way to validate them . Many stores now keep a complete record of every sale in a database . Those stores do n't need an original receipt . They can simply look up the number from your photo of the receipt and validate it . Once you return the item , the receipt is marked in the database so that it can not be used for a return again . Not every store allows this , however . You 'll need to ask the stores you shop at to find out what their return policies are .
Most of the points by MrChrister are valid . I ca n't say much for Philippines , however there is a reason for one to go with individual insurance from my experience in India . Most of the insurance require you to stay with them for a period of 3 yrs before some of the other illness are covered under insurance . In this case it makes sense to continue for a single insurance with an insurer of your choice . Sometimes group insurance waive off or reduce the minimum period for some critical illness , you may need to check if there is any such clause in your employees insurance . Most of the company insurance is for a small amount . With rising medical costs this amount may not be sufficeint.Having your own insurance adds to a higher level of cover . For example if your employer has covered you for 100,000 and you have additional 100,000 on your own , and if you get hospitalized for an amount of 150,000 you can still get this covered as your overall limit is now 200,000 . Continuity Clause : Most of the insurance require you to prove that the illness is contracted during the priod of coverage and in certain cases this would be difficult to prove and one could be denied . For example my friend had a fall and a ligament tear , which he ignored for sometime . During this time he also changed jobs and was on other companies Medical Insurance policy . He had to later undergo a surgery to rectify this , but was n't paid because the doctor mentioned that this was pre-existing and could ' nt date this . Having a continious personal insurance will ensure these cases are avoided . Altough one can buy insurance when one is out of job , most of the time one is averse to spending / investing and one ends up not buying an insurance and the risk of this can turn out to be high .
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
Normally , clauses letting you drive other cars only apply to cars that you do n't own . So I 'd check your policies carefully , and then insure the Renault in your wife 's name and add her as a named driver to your policy on the Skoda .
If you 're resident in the State of California then you must follow the State law . Note that the State of California has different rules in determining residency status . It is likely that you 're resident for State purposes even though you 're not resident for Federal purposes . Check if there 's special treatment due to a treaty ( between India and California , or if states are explicitly mentioned in the India-US tax treaty ) . You can have a professional ( CPA or EA ) help you with that , just make sure its a licensed professional ( California does n't license EAs , but does license CPAs or unenrolled tax preparers ) .
Technically filing fee is probably a " <URL> " , but yes - its a kind of an expense . The yearly recurring fee is an expense .
From the <URL> : Subject to the provisions of Articles 16 ( Directors ' Fees ) , 17 ( Artistes and Athletes ) , 18 ( Pensions , Annuities , Alimony , and Child Support ) , 19 ( Government Service ; Social Security ) , and 20 ( Visiting Professors and Teachers ; Students and Trainees ) , salaries , wages , and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State , unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State . Looks like you 're out of luck on this . You have to pay the US taxes .
The major reason to start an LLC for side work is if you want the additional personal liability protection afforded by one . If you 're operating as a sole proprietor , you may be exposing yourself to liability : debts and judgments against your business can put your personal assets at risk ! So , if you 're intending to continue and grow your side work in the future , you ought to consider the LLC sooner than later . It 's also an important legal decision and you should consider seeking a professional opinion . The Wall Street Journal has a brief guide titled <URL> . Here are some notable excerpts : A limited liability company , or LLC , is similar to a partnership but has the legal protections of personal assets that a corporation offers without the burdensome formalities , paperwork and fees . [ ... ] Some states charge annual fees and taxes that can diminish the economic advantage of choosing to become an LLC . Among LLC advantages : pass-through taxation -- meaning the profits and losses " pass through " the business to the individuals owning the business who report this information on their own personal tax returns . The result can be paying less in taxes , since profits are not taxed at both the business level and the personal level . Another plus : Owners are n't usually responsible for the company 's debts and liabilities . [ ... ] Also check out onstartups.com 's <URL> ? Here are some additional articles that discuss the advantages / disadvantages of forming an LLC : <URL> - allbusiness.com <URL> - ehow.com <URL> - gaebler.com
Zander insurance is a sponsor of The Dave Ramsey Show , and he often endorses them in the context of a paid endorsement . So you need to treat his " advice " in this context for what it is -- paid advertisement . Also note that these services are NOT insurance -- they are service plans . Zander calls their program " <URL> " , and specifically states the following : This is not an insurance product . This is an administrative services contract , with restoration and ancillary reimbursement benefits , issued by ID Experts and in connection with Zander Insurance Group providing enrollment and preventative database management services . That means that these products are service contracts , similar to what you buy for a dishwasher or car . The services provided are limited to whatever is in the contract , and is not regulated by your state insurance department . You need to read the contract terms -- they may be subject to unilateral change at any time , or you may have no recourse other than binding arbitration . If you are concerned about identity theft , explore the options available to you at no cost . ( ie . freeze your credit records for the cost of a US postage stamp , etc ) These products are n't necessarily " scams " -- but they may or may not offer the best value to you . Figure out what they actually cover and what you need to do to protect yourself and make the decision that is right for you .
Based on <URL> , if you both have individual coverage , you can both contribute $ 3300 for a total of $ 6600 . If one of you had family coverage for the other , they could contribute $ 6550 , but then the other could not contribute anything . For 2013 , if you have self-only HDHP coverage , you can contribute up to $ 3,250 . If you have family HDHP coverage you can contribute up to $ 6,450 . Note the limits have n't been updated for 2014 in this document yet .
end question
start question
Equity - date of offer , or date of joining ?
Options or Shares vest by date they are granted . It would strike me as odd for anyone to say their stares were given with 4 year vesting , but the clock was pre-started years prior . In my opinion , you have nothing to complain about .
Main advantages you are closer to your lenders , not some impersonal bank you are more likely to get a favorable rate more flexible terms Main disadvantages You are closer to your lenders ( see advantages ) , it is not as bad as borrowing money from your friends or relatives , but the personal factor can come into play ( even though p2p lending sites serve as a bit of buffer ) . You need to be aware on how the lending sites get paid and how much . Obviously you should not have to pay anything in advance to originate a loan ( those are generally scams ) . Finally a very subjective opinion , but I think in terms of financial returns p2p lending is not that great for lenders , but good for borrowers , precisely , because individual lenders are not that great at determining credit risk of borrowers . In any case it should not concern you too much , as long as you can get your loan .
There are 3 entities in a credit card transaction ; The Merchant Bank/Acquiring bank that provides the POS to the Merchant where you buy / swipe your card . This bank is the one that acquires the funds at the end of transaction . The Card Network [ Visa/Master/etc ] The Issuing Bank [ the Bank that issues you a credit card ] Typically when you swipe for 100 , the merchant only gets around 97.5 . The 2.5 is divided amongst the 3 entities , roughly around 0.5 for the Merchant Bank , around 0.5 for the Card Network and a lions share to Issuing Bank of around 1.5 The reason Issuing Bank gets large share is because they take the risk and provide the credit to customer . Typically the Issuing Bank would pay the Merchant bank via the Card Network the money in couple of days . So the Merchant Bank is not out of funds . The Issuing Bank on the other hand would have given you a credit of say 10 to 50 days depending on when you made the transaction and when the payment is due . On an average 30 days of credit . So roughly the Acquiring Bank is lending money at the rate of 18 % . It is from this money the Issuing Bank would give out rewards , which is typically less than 1 % . Also in cases where say Merchant Bank and the Issuing Bank are same , Bank would make money on both the legs of transaction and hence launch co-branded cards with better rewards . The above numbers are illustrative and actual practices vary from Bank to Bank to card Network to Country Related question at <URL>
A Home Equity Line Of Credit ( HELOC ) is simply a special type of secured credit . Secured credit is credit provided to you , where the lender has some rights to an associated asset in the event that you default . In the case of a HELOC , much like a mortgage , if you default on the payment terms , the bank may be legally able to foreclose on your house , sell the foreclosed property , and take the money owed to it from the proceeds , leaving you with any net remainder . Whether your friend will be able to have a bank offer her credit secured against her business assets would depend on a variety of factors . She should talk to her bank to see whether it would be possible in her case .
A secured line of credit yields a lower interest rate because if you default on it , the lender simply has you on the hook with whatever you used to secure the line of credit . i.e. if you have a HELOC and you default , they 'll foreclose on you and take your house . An unsecured line of credit does n't have the same type of clout for taking your stuff . In short , a secured line of credit has a lower interest rate because it 's higher risk for you and lower risk for the lender .
In the UK the bank owns it for all the reasons you give . But if the bank ever asks for it back you should cut it in two before giving it back , as you can never be 100 % that it IS the bank that is asking for it .
Your current interest on the car loan is about $ 68 a month . The penalty is only $ 12 . You should put as much on the car loan as you can until you get the interest payment down to $ 12 . I threw it into a spreadsheet and found that number to be the last nine payments , when the principal is around $ 2200 remaining . For those final payments , you 're better off paying the interest than the penalty . If you add in the rate on the mortgage , it changes things a bit . If you switch to overpaying the mortgage when you have $ 5500 left on the car , the penalty becomes more than the difference in the interest rates . So you may be better off with keeping the whole gain of the lower rate rather than the penalty reduced on the car loan . Technically we should also consider the Net Present Value of the penalties . $ 12 two years from now is worth less than $ 12 now . But it 's not a lot less , so I 'm just ignoring it . Including it would slightly favor paying the car loan early . Note that my spreadsheet is a rough calculation based on a monthly payment of $ 273.86 . They may give you better information in your receipt . Also , check with them if you can reduce your payment to reduce the penalties . If you can pay $ 1300 a month now and pay $ 15 a month for the last four years of the loan , that would be even better from your perspective . But they may not allow that nor similar alternatives . If you can only <URL> once on the mortgage , I 'm not sure that I 'd pick this as the time to do it . I 'd prefer to save it for an emergency . And if you would have to pay fees , it 's probably not worth it even if you could redraw as often as you want . If you pay $ 7000 of the car loan immediately , that saves you six months of payments and about $ 200 in interest . Reduce the interest savings by $ 72 for added penalties . That 's only $ 130 in savings from using the redraw . In the past six months , you overpaid the car loan by about $ 1300 and the mortgage by $ 7000 . Just keep overpaying $ 5000 over the next four months and put it all on the car loan . You 'll have it down to the point where the penalty starts to hurt . Then switch the overpayment to the mortgage and pay the minimum on the car loan until it finishes . That 's simpler than anything involving the redraw and still gets you good savings . I said this above but will repeat it here . The goal is to pay the car loan down to $ 5500 in principal . At that point , overpaying the mortgage is a better deal than overpaying the car loan and taking the early payment penalty at the end . More than $ 5500 and it looks like you 're better off paying the car loan even with the penalty .
Yes it is legal , in fact according to <URL> , foreign investors are the largest holders of UK shares ( as of 2008 ) . Investors from outside the UK owned 41.5 per cent of shares listed on the London Stock Exchange at the end of 2008 , up from 40.0 per cent at end of 2006 , according to the latest Office for National Statistics report on share ownership .
If you owe a lot of money ( more then $ 500 or $ 1000 ) you will get hit with penalties . You will also have to file every quarter the next year . That is very painful . There is a safe harbor if you make sure that you have withheld more money than your taxes from the previous year . The information you provided is not enough for me to give specific advice . But here is a hint : Right after you file this year , use turbo tax to determine what changes you can make to your withholding to minimize any excess withholding .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
" I really want us to succeed and I 'm going to work my butt off in order to make that happen . In order to make sure our interests are completely aligned , is there some way that I could receive part of my compensation as equity ? I realize this has a higher risk for me since I 'd be receiving less cash in the form of salary up front , but I believe in our business and I 'm willing to take this risk . I want to make a bet on this company doing extremely well because of the hard work that I 'm putting into it . "
Check out ycharts.com , here is an example of GS <URL>
It does matter greatly . Applying the excess amount to principle will reduce the loan balance and as such the interest you pay with subsequent payments over the life of the loan . This is the one you should choose . Paying advance payments only allows you to skip months of payments at a time and essentially giving the lender and interest free loan on those prepayments . While there may be a small set of circumstances this is okay , your question does not describe one . Do the " over payment toward account balance " will make this loan go away faster and reduce your cost in interest starting next month .
Take a look at Everbank . They offer CDs and Money Market Accounts denominated in Euros for US residents . <URL>
Generally , it is considered a bad idea to put significant parts of your money in your own employer 's stock , no matter how great the company looks right now . The reason is the old ' do n't put all your eggs in one basket ' . If there is ever a serious issue with your company , and you lose your job because they go down the drain , you do n't only lose your job , but also your savings ( and potentially 401k if you have their stock there too ) . So you end unemployed and without all your savings . Of course , this is a generic tip , and depending on the situation , it might be ok to ignore it , that 's your decision . Just remember to have an eye on it , so you can get out while they are still floating - typically employees are not the first to know when it goes downhill , and when you see it in the papers , it 's too late . Typically , you get a more secure and independent return-on-invest by buying into a well-managed mixed portfolio
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
Whether or not you have money in your account will not necessarily stop them withdrawing the money , and it certainly wo n't stop them attempting to withdraw the money . There are two possible scenarios when they attempt to withdraw the money ( as they surely will ) : The bank refuses the withdrawal : you still owe them the money , you may also owe additional late payment fees , the bank may also charge you for a refused payment . If you continue to refuse to pay they could sue you for it . The bank permits the withdrawal : they get their money , you may then owe fees or charges to the bank for the ( unauthorised ? ) overdraft . I think you are just lucky they have n't attempted the withdrawal yet . Put the necessary money into your account now if you possibly can , and consider this a slightly expensive lesson learned about following the Ts and Cs when cancelling services .
I think you 're a little confused about taxes . First , I 'm guessing that you feel your lack of home ownership makes your taxes higher . That might be true , or it might not . The main tax break you would get from home ownership is the mortgage interest deduction , and that is a fraction of what you 're paying in interest . So , yeah , your tax bill is lower , but 3-4 times that amount is going out the door in interest . Plus , when you buy a property , you may have substantial taxes on that property that your landlord is paying now . Secondly , yes , you can deduct expenses on a business , but that only can be done without income for so long before the IRS begins disallowing your deductions . But if you 're making money , the expenses come right off of your income . Third , owning a business means that you get the privilege of paying a self-employment tax , which is the same thing that your employer now pays into Social Security on your behalf . More taxes ! So in short , owning and operating a business has the potential to be more rewarding than holding down a job -- and I recommend starting up a side business just to get another income stream going -- but the tax savings really are n't that appealing to do it just for those .
The value of a currency may be different depending on what you use for a ' value ' . For example , the Japanese Yen may have a different ' value ' if you are comparing it against the Euro or the US Dollar , for example . Believe it or not , the smallest unit of currency ( in terms of value of US dollars ) is the Vietnamese Dong , at a value of 0.00005 Dollars per Dong . Maybe the Zimbabwean dollar is counted differently , maybe / <URL> has a cool currency converter which allows you to compare all current world currencies against a single currency , and presents it in a chart form .
For Chase I can confirm that it 's $ 500 during the first three months . Typically the clock starts running on that three months the day you are approved , not the day you activate the card . Also with Chase , the credit occurs in whichever month the criteria is met . Some banks wait until the initial period is exhausted to determine whether bonus criteria was met then issue the credit or points or whatever . Generally these sign up bonuses refer to an initial time period of three to six months , not a monthly minimum spend in each month .
end question
start question
Why do mutual fund trading limitations exist ? e.g. 90 day transfer limits ?
Mutual funds ( that are not exchange-traded funds ) often need to sell some of their securities to get cash when a shareholder redeems some shares . Such transactions incur costs that are paid ( proportionally ) by all the shareholders in the fund , not just the person requesting redemption , and thus the remaining shareholders get a lower return . ( Exchange-traded funds are traded as if they are shares of common stock , and a shareholder seeking a redemption pays the costs of the redemption ) . For this reason , many mutual funds do not allow redemptions for some period of time after a purchase , or purchases for some period of time after a redemption . The periods of time are chosen by the fund , and are stated in the prospectus ( which everyone has acknowledged has been received before an investment was made ) .
A practical issue is that insider trading transfers wealth from most investors to the few insiders . If this were permitted , non-insiders would rarely make any money , and they 'd stop investing . That would then defeat the purpose of the capital markets which is to attract capital . A moral issue is that managers and operators of a company should act in shareholders ' interests . Insider trading directly takes money from other shareholders and transfers it to the insider . It 's a nasty conflict of interest ( and would allow any CEO of a public company to make ton of money quickly , regardless of their job performance ) . In short , shareholders and management should succeed or suffer together , so their interests are as aligned as possible and managers have the proper incentives .
This is a very important question and you will find arguments from both sides , in part because it is still understudied . Ben Golub , Economics Ph.D. , from Stanford answers " <URL> " on Quoram quite well . This is an important but understudied question . There are few published academic studies on it , though several groups are working on the subject . You may be interested in the following papers : <URL> <URL> These document some of the phenomena that arise in high frequency trading , from a theoretical and an empirical perspective . However , a full equilibrium analysis of the unique features of high frequency trading is still missing , and until it is done , all our answers will be kind of tentative . Nevertheless , there are some obvious things one can say . Currently , high frequency traders are competing to locate physically closer and closer to exchanges , because milliseconds matter . Thus , large amounts of money are being spent to beat other market makers by tiny fractions of a second . Once many firms make these investments , the market looks like it did before in terms of competition and prices , but is a tiny bit faster . This investment is unlikely to be socially efficient : that is , the users of the market do n't actually benefit from the fact that their trades are executed half a millisecond faster -- certainly not enough to cover all the investment that went into making that happen . Some people who study the issue believe that high frequency trading ( HFT ) actually exacerbates market volatility ; some plots to this effect are found in the second paper linked above . There is certainly no widely accepted theory that says faster trading technology necessarily increases efficiency , and it is easy to think of algorithms that can make money ( at least in the short run ) but hurt most other investors , as well as the informational value of the market . One caution is that some of the complaining about HFT comes from those who lose when HFT gets better -- old-style market makers . They certainly have an incentive to make HFT out to be very bad . So some complaints about the predatory nature of HFT should be taken with a grain of salt . There is no strong economic consensus about the value of this activity . For what it 's worth , my personal impression is that this is more bad than good . I 'll post an update here as more definitive research comes out . You can also find a debate on <URL> from the Economist which gives both sides of the argument . In conclusion : Regardless of how you feel about HFT it seems like it 's here to stay and wo n't be leaving in the foreseeable future . So the debate will rage on ... Additional resource you may finding interesting : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I do n't believe you can do that . <URL> Finally , certain types of property are specifically excluded from Section 1031 treatment . Section 1031 does not apply to exchanges of : Inventory or stock in trade Stocks , bonds , or notes Other securities or debt Partnership interests Certificates of trust I highlighted the relevant items for emphasis .
In short ( pun intended ) , the shareholder lending the shares does not believe that the shares will fall , even though the potential investor does . The shareholder believes that the shares will rise . Because the two individuals believe that a different outcome will occur , they are able to make a trade . By using the available data in the market , they have arrived at a particular conclusion of the fair price for the trade , but each individual wants to be on the other side of it . Consider a simpler form of your question : Why would a shareholder agree to sell his/her shares ? Why do n't they just wait to sell , when the price is higher ? After all , that is why the buyer wants to purchase the shares . On review , I realize I 've only stated here why the original shareholder would n't simply sell and rebuy the share themselves ( because they have a different view of the market ) . As to why they would actually allow the trade to occur - Zak ( and other answers ) point out that the shares being lent are compensated for by an initial fee on the transaction + the chance for interest during the period that the shares are owed for .
Mutual funds ( that are not exchange-traded funds ) often need to sell some of their securities to get cash when a shareholder redeems some shares . Such transactions incur costs that are paid ( proportionally ) by all the shareholders in the fund , not just the person requesting redemption , and thus the remaining shareholders get a lower return . ( Exchange-traded funds are traded as if they are shares of common stock , and a shareholder seeking a redemption pays the costs of the redemption ) . For this reason , many mutual funds do not allow redemptions for some period of time after a purchase , or purchases for some period of time after a redemption . The periods of time are chosen by the fund , and are stated in the prospectus ( which everyone has acknowledged has been received before an investment was made ) .
In my opinion , the ability to set a sell or buy price is the least of my concerns . Your question of whether to choose individual stocks vs funds prompts a different issue for me to bring to light . Choosing stocks that beat the market is not simple . In fact , a case can be made for the fact that the average fund lags the market by more and more over time . In the end , conceding that fact and going with the lowest cost funds or ETFs will beat 90 % of investors over time .
The <URL> is where investors such you and me , as well as <URL> , buy and sell securities . The Auction Markets operate with the familiar bid-ask pricing that you see on financial pages such as Google and Yahoo . The Market Makers are institutions that are there to provide liquidity so that investors can easily buy and sell shares at a " fair " price . Market Makers need to have on hand a suitable supply of shares to meet investor demands . When Market Makers feel the need to either increase or decrease their supply of a particular security quickly , they turn to the Dealer Market . In order to participate in a <URL> , you must be designated a Market Maker . As noted already , Market Makers are dedicated to providing liquidity for the Auction Market in certain securities and therefore require that they have on hand a suitable supply of those securities which they support . For example , if a Market Maker for Apple shares is low on their supply of Apple shares , then will go the Dealer Market to purchase more Apple shares . Conversely , if they are holding what they feel are too many Apple shares , they will go to the Dealer Market to sell Apple shares . The Dealer Market does operate on a bid-ask basis , contrary to your stated understanding . The bid-ask prices quoted on the Dealer Market are more or less identical to those on the Auction Market , except the quote sizes will be generally much larger . This is the case because otherwise , why would a Market Maker offer to sell shares to another Market Maker at a price well below what they could themselves sell them for in the Auction Market . ( And similarly with buy orders . ) If Market Makers are generally holding low quantities of a particular security , this will drive up the price in both the Dealer Market and the Auction Market . Similarly , if Market Makers are generally holding too much of a particular security , this may drive down prices on both the Auction Market and the Dealer Market .
While volume per trade is higher at the open and to a lesser extent at the close , the overall volume is actually lower , on average . Bid ask spreads are widest at the open and to a lesser extent at the close . Generally , bid ask spreads are inversely proportional to overall volumes . Why this is the case has n't been sufficiently clearly answered by academia yet , but some theories are that Liquidity providers in the option market have to rapidly resolve imbalanced dynamic hedges resulting from a gap between the previous day 's closing price and the current day 's opening price , Imbalances from overnight trading in foreign markets between the price overseas and in the US provide a brief opportunity for spatial arbitrage , Liquidity providers dynamically hedge at the end of the day in such a way to anticipate the price changes between today 's close and the next open . Day traders prefer to have no overnight exposure thus open positions after the open and close positions after the close , Mutual funds are believed to trade near the close , but there does n't seem to be sufficient evidence to support this , and Traders randomly start and finish their days at different times which would not occur if trading were continuous , allowing volumes to be more constant .
You 'll want to roll the 401k over to a specifically designated rollover IRA . Rollover IRAs differ from an ordinary IRA account because they have NO contribution limit per year . Also Rolling over a 401k to a Roth IRA has consequences . There wo n't be a penalty but you will have to pay taxes on the amount being rolled over . The choice of Roth or Traditional IRA depends on your current tax situation as well as your expected taxes at retirement . Typically if you are in a low tax bracket and expect to be in a higher tax bracket at retirement a Roth IRA is suggested as withdrawals are tax free . With a rollover conversion you will have to evaluate whether paying taxes now outweighs the potential benefits of tax free withdrawals when you retire .
Over a period of time greater than 10 years ( keep in mind , 2000-2009 ten year period fails , so I am talking longer ) the market , as measured by the S&amp;P 500 , was positive . Long term , averaging more than 10 % / yr . At a 1 year horizon , the success is 67 or so percent . It 's mostly for this reason that those asking about investing are told that if they need money in a year or two , to buy a house for instance , they are told to stay out of the market . As the time approaches one day or less , the success rate drops to 50/50 . The next trade being higher or lower is a random event . Say you have a $ 5 commission . A $ 10,000 trade buy/sell is $ 10 for the day . 250 trading days costs you $ 2500 if you get in and out once per day . You need to be ahead 25 % for the year to break even . You can spin the numbers any way you wish , but in the end , time ( long time spans ) is on your side .
Indeed , there 's no short term/long term issue trading inside the IRA , and in fact , no reporting . If you have a large IRA balance and trade 100 ( for example ) times per year , there 's no reporting at all . As you note , long term gains outside the IRA are treated favorably in the tax code ( as of now , 2012 ) but that 's subject to change . Also to consider , The worst thing I did was to buy Apple in my IRA . A huge gain that will be taxed as ordinary income when I withdraw it . Had this been in my regular account , I could sell and pay the long term cap gain rate this year . Last , there 's no concept of Wash sale in one 's IRA , as there 's no taking a loss for shares sold below cost . ( To clarify , trading solely within an IRA wo n't trigger wash sale rules . A realized loss in a taxable account , combined with a purchase inside an IRA can trigger the wash sale rule if the stock is purchased inside the IRA 30 days before or after the sale at a loss . Thank you , Dilip , for the comment . ) Aside from the warnings of trading too much or running afoul of frequency restrictions , your observation is correct .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
The most basic way of determining whether a specific fund is a dud or not is to compare it to a correponding ETF or index . For example , if you are invested in an emerging market fund , compare your results to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund ( EEM ) . If you are not getting the same return over time , or are incurring significantly more risk , I would question the value of staying in that particular fund .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
There are several reasons to pay for data instead of using Yahoo Finance , although these reasons do n't necessarily apply to you if you 're only planning to use the data for personal use . Yahoo will throttle you if you attempt to download too much data in a short time period . You can opt to use the Yahoo Query Language ( YQL ) , which does provide another interface to their financial data apart from simply downloading the CSV files . Although the rate limit is higher for YQL , you may still run into it . An API that a paid data provider exposes will likely have higher thresholds . Although the reliability varies throughout the site , Yahoo Finance is n't considered the most reliable of sources . You ca n't beat free , of course , but at least for research purposes , the Center for Research in Security Prices ( CRSP ) at UChicago and Wharton is considered the gold standard . On the commercial side , data providers like eSignal , Bloomberg , Reuters also enjoy widespread popularity . Although both the output from YQL and Yahoo 's current CSV output are fairly standard , they wo n't necessarily remain that way . A commercial API is basically a contract with the data provider that they wo n't change the format without significant prior notice , but it 's reasonable to assume that if Yahoo wanted to , they could make minor changes to the format and break many commercial applications . A change in Yahoo 's format would likely break many sites or applications too , but their terms of use do state that Yahoo " may change , suspend , or discontinue any aspect of the Yahoo! Finance Modules at any time , including the availability of any Yahoo! Finance Modules . Yahoo! may also impose limits on certain features and services or restrict your access to parts or all of the Yahoo! Finance Modules or the Yahoo! Web site without notice or liability . " If you 're designing a commercial application , a paid provider will probably provide technical support for their API . According to Yahoo Finance 's license terms , you ca n't use the data in a commercial application unless you specifically use their " badges " ( whatever those are ) . See <URL> . In <URL> , a Yahoo employee states : The Finance TOS is fairly specific . Redistribution of data is only allowed if you are using the badges the team has created . Otherwise , you can use YQL or whatever method to obtain data for personal use . The <URL> itself states that you may not : sell , lease , or sublicense the Yahoo! Finance Modules or access thereto or derive income from the use or provision of the Yahoo! Finance Modules , whether for direct commercial or monetary gain or otherwise , without Yahoo! 's prior , express , written permission In short , for personal use , Yahoo Finance is more than adequate . For research or commercial purposes , a data provider is a better option . Furthermore , many commercial applications require more data than Yahoo provides , e.g. tick-by-tick data for equities , derivatives , futures , data on mergers , etc. , which a paid data source will likely provide . Yahoo is also known for inaccuracies in its financial statements ; I ca n't find any examples at the moment , but I had a professor who enjoyed pointing out flaws in the 10K 's that he had come across . I 've always assumed this is because the data were manually entered , although I would assume EDGAR has some method for automatic retrieval . If you want data that are guaranteed to be accurate , or at least have a support contract associated with them so you know who to bother if it is n't , you 'll need to pay for it .
could I decline it so the money would be returned back to the account they were transferred from ? As a general banking practise , there is nothing automated that will allow you to mark something as return the funds . You would have to approach your Bank with a written statement mentioning that you do n't recognise this credit as belonging to you and request the bank to take appropriate action .
It 's <URL> in Canada ( <URL> ) . Note that if you are getting a refund , rather than paying more taxes , you can be as late as you want without penalty .
Here are two general " rules of thumb " that should keep you out of trouble when searching for a legitimate work at home opportunity among the expanse of scams : You should never have to pay them anything , period . Any mention of you sending them money for any reason indicates a scam . This is doubly true if they offer to send you money up-front and want a part of it sent back or to someone else . Do n't re-mail things for them If they want you to accept shipments and send them back out , or re-sell them on e-bay , etc. do n't do it . This is usually a front for fencing ( laundering ) stolen property . If they are too eager to get your SSN , run Many frauds act like they have a job and just need your information to fill out tax forms . This generally is NOT needed for contractors , but can be legitimate if they are hiring you as a full time W2 ( US ) employee . However , you really really need to check a company out and make sure it is legit before you give up this information . A red-flag is a company that asks for personal information too quickly , or does n't seem interested in discussing other details of the work . These job scams are a major source of identity theft . Some legitimate places to find work at home jobs : There are a number of online sources that connect people who want to do freelance work to companies that need the help . A major benefit is that many of these offer some kind of vetting process for both ends of the transaction and an escrow system to arrange the payment without giving up too much sensitive information . The downside is that the sites often take a cut of the deal ( 5-10 % or so ) . Here are a few I recomend <URL> Pros : Larger jobs/more money potential Cons : You will probably need to spend more time setting up a portfolio and may need to charge less until you build a reputation on the site to get the really good jobs . Typical Jobs : More skilled jobs like writing articles , building a web site , graphic design , etc. . <URL> Pros : Easier to get jobs without much prep or sales work . Also , a lot more less-skilled jobs are available here . Cons : Jobs are usually really small , and pay a usually small piece rate . Typical Jobs : Proof a web-site or document for errors . Visit a web-site and post reviews on other web-sites .
No . Ca n't understand why would you even think about it . The only thing to consider is the early sales fee , if its a NTF fund . Capital gains in the IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all , so there 's no difference whether you hold it more than a year or not .
end question
start question
Federal Stafford Loan deferment options ?
You need to call the lender that holds the student loans and ask them about deferring them . From my understanding there is no deferment based solely on being in the national guard , but there are special provisions for soldiers called to active duty that should allow you to defer the loans ( may require a copy of your orders ) . The deferment period should be the length of time you are on active duty plus 180 days post deployment/active duty . Make sure that you stay current on your student loans if you do n't get a deferment because most student loan forgiveness programs require that you 're current as a condition for forgiveness .
Looking at <URL> , it says : You can only apply if : you 're a UK national or have ' settled status ' ( no restrictions on how long you can stay ) you normally live in England you 've been living in the UK for 3 years before starting your course As you meet all three requirements I think you are counted as a English student in every respect . I would advise applying as soon as possible though to verify this . EDIT : also , getting a British passport anyway might not hurt ; it makes sense as you 've spent almost all your life here , and it would insulate you against any issues that might arise if Britain ends up leaving the EU .
In order to not be considered a gift , the appropriate <URL> must be charged . This varies by the term of the loan ; short term is 0-3 years , medium is > 3-9 , long is > 9 + . <URL> discusses this a bit more , particularly including the time periods . In your case , of course check the AFR for the month in which it 's lent , but it will be around 0.45 % annually compounded ( give or take a bit ) . They 've been going up lately , so pay attention ( or charge a bit more to be safe ) . You can also read the IRS regulations <URL> . And as David 's answer states , you must declare all interest as income .
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
If you buy a call , that 's because you expect that the stock will go up . If it does not go up , then forget about buying more calls as your initial idea seems to be wrong . And I do n't think that buying a put to make up for the loss will work either , the only thing that is sure is that you will pay another premium ( on a stock that could stay where it is ) . Even if you are 100 % sure that the stock will go up again , do n't do anything , as John Maynard Keynes stated : " Markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent " . My idea is : wait until the expiration date . The good things about options is that you wo n't lose more than the premium that you paid for it and that until it reaches its maturity you can still make money if the market turns around . More generally , when you are purely speculating , adding to a position when it goes against you is called " averaging down " . I sincerely discourage you to do that : If the stocks goes in the wrong direction , that means that your initial idea was wrong in the first place ( or you were not right at the right moment ) . In my opinion , adding up to a wrong idea is not the right thing to do . When you are losing , just take your loss and do n't add up to your position based on your emotions . On the other hand , adding to your position more when the stock goes in your direction is called " pyramiding " and is , in my opinion , a better way of doing things ( you bought , you were right , let 's buy more ) . But at some point you will have to take your profits . There are plenty of other stocks on which you can try to invest and the market will still be here tomorrow , there will be other opportunities to make profits . Rushing things by constantly trying to have a position is not a good idea . Not doing anything is also a strategy .
IRS refunds are not taxable . State/local refunds are taxable , if you itemized your deductions for that year , to the extent that the overpayment provided tax benefit . IRS <URL> to calculate that . Just to clarify : this is taxable in the year received . You do not need to amend the prior years . So if you received a $ 100 refund for State taxes you paid in 2010 in the year 2012 - it will appear on your 1040 for the year 2012 , no need to amend 2010 .
I 'll answer based on your response to my comment on the OP . The basic issue is that when income from multiple jobs is combined , the marginal tax rate may be higher than that for either job separately . For a single taxpayer with multiple jobs , this is easy to figure out . Suppose you have a job where your AGI puts you at the very top of the 15 % bracket , so that if you earn one more dollar there , it will be taxed at the 25 % rate , and your employer will know that and withhold accordingly . Now suppose you take a weekend job that will earn you $ 9000 during the year . Even if you fill out a W-4 with your new employer indicating no exemptions or allowances , they will only withhold at the 10 % marginal rate ( $ 900 ) , while you should be paying 25 % on that income ( $ 2250 ) . That will leave you with a $ 1350 tax bill when you file in April . It 's a little more complicated for married couples , but the idea is the same . If you mark that you are married on your W-4 , even if you take no allowances or exemptions , the employer will use the " Married " withholding table , which assumes that the income from that job is the entire income for the couple . Since the marginal rate increases more slowly for married couples than for singles ( in aggregate , not per person ) , taxes will be withheld at a rate that is too low . ( You may also be subject to the <URL> , but that is a correction on the main point . ) So , the incorrect withholding comes from the fact that neither employer knows about the other for the purposes of figuring the marginal tax rate ( and thus the withholding ) . For two-earner households ( or multiple-job earners ) , there is a worksheet at the bottom of <URL> that will allow you to compute the additional withholding necessary to avoid an end-of-year tax bill . At minimum , you should mark your W-4s to withhold at the single rate .
The IRS publishes an exhaustive set of explicit lookup tables in <URL> Determine the payroll period-weekly , biweekly , monthly , etc. . For bonuses and exceptional payments there several options available . Determine your exemption , a function of the allowances you reported on W-4 and payroll period ( and technically , citizenship status ) . Take the gross amount in the check . Subtract the exemption . Cross reference the net amount in the lookup table for the payroll period . That 's the amount withheld .
In Minnesota , based on the <URL> , I believe that anything that is deductible for federal income taxes is deductible for the Minnesota State income tax . What is federal taxable income ( FTI ) ? Federal taxable income is the tax base used to calculate federal income tax liability . It is also the starting point for calculating Minnesota taxable income , the tax base used to calculate Minnesota income tax liability . Federal taxable income equals federal adjusted gross income ( FAGI ) after deductions and exemptions . Specifically , these are excluded ( bold added by myself ) : What kinds of income are excluded from FAGI ? FAGI excludes : deductible IRA , SEP , and SIMPLE contributions ; nontaxable employee fringe benefits ; student loan interest payments ; Health Savings Account contributions and investment income ; moving expenses ; one-half of self-employment tax ; health insurance premiums ( for self-employed taxpayers only ) ; penalty on early withdrawal of savings ; alimony paid by the taxpayer ; for tax year 2008 only , the first $ 500 of property taxes paid by standard deduction filers ( $ 1,000 for married joint filers ) ; and , through tax year 2009 , $ 250 of teacher classroom expenses and $ 4,000 of tuition expenses for higher education . FAGI does not exclude child support paid by the taxpayer . And finally the key statements : What itemized deductions are allowed ? Itemized deductions are allowed for the following : Payments of state and local property taxes and income taxes Mortgage interest Charitable contributions Medical expenses in excess of 7.5 percent of income Casualty and theft losses in excess of 10 percent of income Job expenses and miscellaneous expenses ( most only allowed in excess of 2 percent of income ) Obviously this is n't foolproof , as tax law always has " exceptions " but this is the best answer I 've found so far .
I 'm assuming this was a cashless exercise because you had income show up on your w-2 . When I had a similar situation , I did the following : If you made $ 50,000 in salary and $ 10,000 in stock options then your W-2 now says $ 60,000 . You 'll record that on your taxes just like it was regular income . You 'll also get a form that talks about your stock sale . But remember , you bought and sold the stock within seconds . Your forms will probably look like this : Bought stock : $ 10,000 Sold stock : $ 10,000 + $ 50 commission Total profit ( loss ) : ( $ 50 ) From the Turbotax/IRS view point , you lost $ 50 on the sale of the stock because you paid the commission , but the buy and sell prices were identical or nearly identical .
Generally there 's no ultimate protection against charge backs . Some methods are easier to charge back and some harder , and there 's always the resort of going to courts . The hardest to contest is , of course , a cash payment or wire transfer . You need to remember that imposing unnecessary/unreasonable difficulties on your customers will drive business away . I can buy diamonds in the nearest mall with my credit card - why would I buy from you if you want cash , BTC , or any other shady way to pay ? I 'm pretty sure that whatever that is you 're selling , anyone can buy elsewhere as well .
Can anyone explain what each of them mean and how they 're different from each other ? Buy To Open When you " buy to open " , you are purchasing an option and opening a new position . Sell To Open Covered When you " sell to open " , you are creating a brand new options contract and selling it . " Covered " means that you have assets in your account to satisfy the terms of the options contract . A " covered call " is a call option for which you own shares of the underlying stock that you will sell to the buyer at the option 's strike price if he exercises the option . Buy To Close If you previously made a " sell to open " trade to create a new position , and you want to close the position , you can buy back the option . Sell To Close If you previously made a " buy to open " trade , you can " sell to close " which will sell back your option and close your position . In summary : " open " means you 're creating a new position " close " means you 're closing an existing position " covered " means you have the underlying asset ( cash or stock ) to satisfy the option if it is exercised
Ultimately this depends on a number of factors , some of which could be very localized . The first question to ask yourself is why you are purchasing a house . If your reason can be summarized as something like " because it is a good investment " , then the simple answer is to wait . Houses come with many fun hidden expenses ( like the dishwasher crapping out or needing a new roof in the middle of winter ) and historically their returns approximate inflation . In addition , any wealth you do gain is tied up in the house . There are many online resources that can step you through the thought process on deciding if getting a home is right or not , as well as calculators that can account for unexpected expenses and such to indicate the financial side of things . Now that you have decided buying a house makes sense ... In the US there are a number of options you have . If you ( or your spouse ) have a military record ( either currently active or retired/honorable discharge ) then you qualify for the VA loan program which offers low-money-down loans without PMI . If you want to buy a property that is rural farmland , and you meet a number of other requirements there are USDA loans available that also have low-to-no down payment required and no PMI . For conventional loans , lenders generally will not accept traditional loans for the down payment , though sometimes family loans are ok with them ( family loans are a bad idea for other reasons ) . Assuming you do not qualify for any of those other programs , and you do not wish to take a gift/loan / " family feud starter " from your family , you still have a few other possibilities . Many states have programs to help with down payment assistance . Depending on where the house you want is , how much you earn , how expensive the house is , and other possible factors , you might be able to get a grant or an extremely low-to-no interest loan to help bridge the gap . Note that these programs might put limits on the kind of loan you can have ( for instance it might specify you need a FHA , VA , or USDA loan to qualify ) . The specific details of the plan can be very location specific . For instance Washington State has a state wide program ( <URL> ) , but Seattle city also has a <URL> . The income limits , maximum purchase price , and assistance amount are very different between the two programs . A great resource to start with is the <URL> . They have more information on some of the federal level programs , and can also direct you to the local programs near you . Pay attention to the local programs , because many of them have classes for eligibility that you can take for free and that discuss loans and the home buying process for your area ( this is a great resource , even if you do n't wind up using those programs ) .
Not necessarily . The abbreviation " ESOP " is ambiguous . There are at least 8 variations I know of : Employee [ Share / Stock ] [ Owership / Option ] [ Plan / Program ] . You 'll find references on Google to each of those , some more than others . For fun you can even substitute the word " Executive " for " Employee " and I 'm sure you 'll find more . Really . So you may be mistaken about the " O " referring to " options " and thereby implying it must be about options . Or , you may be right . If you participate in such a plan ( or program ) then check the documentation and then you 'll know what it stands for , and how it works . That being said : companies can have either kind of incentive plan : one that issues stock , or one that issues options , with the intent to eventually issue stock in exchange for the option exercise price . When options are issued , they usually do have an expiration date by which you need to exercise if you want to buy the shares . There may be other conditions attached . For instance , whether the plan is about stocks or options , often there is a vesting schedule that determines when you become eligible to buy or exercise . When you buy the shares , they may be registered directly in your name ( you might get a fancy certificate ) , or they may be deposited in an account in your name . If the company is small and private , the former may be the case , and if public , the latter may be the case . Details vary . Check the plan 's documentation and/or with its administrators .
At your income , I would guess that you will not be able to get a monthly payment low enough to stretch your loan out for longer than 10 years . However , even if you could , I would not recommend the loan forgiveness program for you . I realize that $ 28k sounds like a lot of money , and it would be nice if you did n't have to pay it . However , the PSLF program lasts 10 years before you see any benefit . You and your wife have a high income , and you should be able to pay off this loan much , much quicker than 10 years . ( One or two years should be your goal . ) The quicker you pay it off , the less interest you will pay . If you decide to pursue the PSLF program , you will be stuck in your current job for the next 10 years . You did n't specify what your monthly payment is , or what the current length of the loan is , but let 's look at a few scenarios . Let 's say that you were somehow able to get by with interest-only payments on the loan for the next 10 years . ( I do n't think this is possible . ) In this scenario , you would be paying $ 140 per month , $ 1680 per year , or almost $ 17k over the next 10 years , and you will remain $ 28k in debt until you complete 10 years at your job , when you 'll get the debt forgiven . Let 's say instead that you arrange a $ 200 per month payment . ( At your income , I do n't think you 'll be able to obtain a monthly payment this low . ) Without the PSLF , this would pay off the loan in 20 years . You would be paying $ 2400 per year , or $ 24k over the next 10 years , and at the end of the program you 'd still have over $ 18k of principal that would need to be forgiven . With both of these situations , it is true that you end the program with significant loan forgiveness . However , you are still paying a lot , and since most of it is interest , you still remain at a very high debt burden . If you need to leave your job for any reason , it will be a tremendously costly decision . Instead , let 's say that you decide to skip the PSLF program , and just pay it off as quickly as possible . If you pay $ 1250 per month , you 'd have the loan completely paid off in 24 months , paying a total of under $ 29.8 k , meaning that you will have paid less than $ 1800 in total interest . Summary : Scenario 1 : $ 140 per month , $ 17k total cost , 10-year commitment ( not really possible ) Scenario 2 : $ 200 per month , $ 24k total cost , 10-year commitment Scenario 3 : $ 1250 per month , $ 30k total cost , No commitment , 2-year payoff The idea behind the PSLF program is to provide relief for people with a very high student loan debt and reward them for taking a low-paying public service job . You , however , have a great income , and can afford to pay it off early . If I were you , I would not want to make the 10-year commitment to a job just to save at most $ 6k ( probably less ) .
Yes . But once you chose the method ( on your first tax return ) , you can not change it without the IRS approval . Similarly the fiscal year . For individuals , I ca n't think of any reason why would accrual basis be better than cash , or why would an individual use a fiscal year other than the calendar year .
I 'll start off with the bad news . The historical returns for lenders on those sites have n't been too hot . By <URL> the median annualized lender return is 0 % for Prosper . I do n't have per-lender data for Lending Club , but based on what I 've seen , the results would be a bit better but probably not by much . You can see what data I do have for Lending Club on my tracking site <URL> . Now for some better news . Lender returns ( especially at Prosper ) were dragged down significantly by some overzealous early adopters . Early on lots of people chased after 28 % + rates in E and HR grade loans thinking the default rate would be much lower than it turned out to be . Initial default rate estimates for HR grade loans based on Experian data ran about 10 % if I recall correctly . Once the dust settled though , the default rates were more like 30 % ( annualized ) . So , you take overzealous early adopters who know nothing about consumer credit rushing into a brand new market with bad information about risk right before the biggest recession since the depression . The fact that they managed to get out with even money on average actually does n't look so bad . Since then , Prosper has greatly improved their loan rating scheme based on real data from their platform and both Lending Club and Prosper have introduced more " managed portfolio " type approaches to lending . These should result in better returns for lenders . My biggest concern at this point is the viability of those platforms . Neither company originates enough loans to come even close to breaking even . My rough back-of-the-napkin estimates are that they would have to grow by 10x at least just to pay the bills .
Waiting a week for an answer is really not all that long . Keep in mind , much depends on how long ago they assumed your loan and whether or not the records have caught up to them yet . If the assignment is recent then it may be taking time for the new servicing company to assimilate the record into their own system , during which time it would be difficult , if not impossible , to reply to your information request . Loans are usually transferred in blocks , and there is n't always uniformity on the way the information is stored in records , so the new servicing company has to figure out how to read the data and load it into their system . ( I know this process works because I built such a system for Lehmann Brothers ' mortgage servicing division back in the 90s , and it is pretty much the same across all kinds of loan types ) . Have you moved since obtaining the loan , and if , so , are you sure the servicing company was aware of the move ? It could be that your new servicing company 's " welcome " letter was sent to an outdated address . There are many reasons why you did n't receive notice , but I would suggest being a bit more patient and persistent in your efforts . Stay on top of them to ensure you 're affirming the debt and continuing to make payments so the accrued interest does n't overwhelm you . Not making payments for five years would be disastrous .
Here is another way to look at it . Does this debt enable you to buy more car than you can really afford , or more car than you need ? If so , it 's bad debt . Let 's say you do n't have the price of a new car , but you can buy a used car with the cash you have . You will have to repair the car occasionally , but this is generally a lot less than the payments on a new car . The value of your time may make sitting around waiting while your car is repaired very expensive ( if , like me , you can earn money in fine grained amounts anywhere between 0 and 80 hours a week , and you do n't get paid when you 're at the mechanic 's ) in which case it 's possible to argue that buying the new car saves you money overall . Debt incurred to save money overall can be good : compare your interest payments to the money you save . If you 're ahead , great - and the fun or joy or showoff potential of your new car is simply gravy . Now let 's say you can afford a $ 10,000 car cash - there are new cars out there at this price - but you want a $ 30,000 car and you can afford the payments on it . If there was no such thing as borrowing you would n't be able to get the larger/flashier car , and some people suggest that this is bad debt because it is helping you to waste your money . You may be getting some benefit ( such as being able to get to a job that 's not served by public transit , or being able to buy a cheaper house that is further from your job , or saving time every day ) from the first $ 10,000 of expense , but the remaining $ 20,000 is purely for fun or for showing off and should n't be spent . Certainly not by getting into debt . Well , that 's a philosophical position , and it 's one that may well lead to a secure retirement . Think about that and you may decide not to borrow and to buy the cheaper car . Finally , let 's say the cash you have on hand is enough to pay for the car you want , and you 're just trying to decide whether you should take their cheap loan or not . Generally , if you do n't take the cheap loan you can push the price down . So before you decide that you can earn more interest elsewhere than you 're paying here , make sure you 're not paying $ 500 more for the car than you need to . Since your loan is from a bank rather than the car dealership , this may not apply . In addition to the money your cash could earn , consider also liquidity . If you need to repair something on your house , or deal with other emergency expenditures , and your money is all locked up in your car , you may have to borrow at a much higher rate ( as much as 20 % if you go to credit cards and ca n't get it paid off the same month ) which will wipe out all this careful math about how you should just buy the car and not pay that 1.5 % interest . More important than whether you borrow or not is not buying too much car . If the loan is letting you talk yourself into the more expensive car , I 'd say it 's a bad thing . Otherwise , it probably is n't .
The <URL> has three objectives : currency stability ( primarily keeping inflation within a narrow band ) ; full employment ; and improved prosperity and welfare . Its primary weapon in this , is its setting of a target for the cash rate - the overnight money-market interest rate charged between financial intermediaries . Short-term market rates closely track this cash rate target , because the Reserve Bank controls the supply of funds that banks use to settle the transactions that use the overnight money-market interest rates . Australian capital markets are liquid , with many deposits / loans being on variable-rate or short-term rates ; hence changes to the cash rate quickly propagate throughout the market . NB that the changes propagate , but not all interest rates are at the same level : the absolute values do n't propagate . Different interest rates will reflect different loan periods , and different ( perceptions of ) risks . Banks are profit-maximisers . So they wo n't loan at a lower rate to one borrower , if they can loan the same money to someone else at a higher interest rate ( and the same or lower risk ) . And they wo n't lend money out , unless they can cover the cost of their own borrowing , plus overheads , plus a reward for the risk of the loan . Hence the home loan rates of all banks will tend to move in the same direction , by broadly the same amount , at the same time .
end question
start question
Is gold really an investment or just a hedge against inflation ?
The problem I have with gold is that it 's only worth what someone will pay you for it . To a degree that 's true with any equity , but with a company there are other capital resources etc that provide a base value for the company , and generally a business model that generates income . Gold just sits there . it does n't make products , it does n't perform services , you ca n't eat it , and the main people making money off of it are the folks charging a not insubstantial commission to sell it to you , or buy it back . Sure it 's used in small quantities for things like plating electrical contacts , dental work , shielding etc. . But Industrial uses account for only 10 % of consumption . Mostly it 's just hoarded , either in the form of Jewelry ( 50 % ) or ' investment ' ( bullion/coins ) 40 % . Its value derives largely from rarity and other than the last few years , there 's no track record of steady growth over time like the stock market or real-estate . Just look at what gold prices did between 10 to 30 years ago , I 'm not sure it came anywhere near close to keeping pace with inflation during that time . If you look at the chart , you see a steady price until the US went off the gold standard in 1971 , and rules regarding ownership and trading of gold were relaxed . There was a brief run up for a few years after that as the market ' found its level ' as it were , and you really need to look from about 74 forward ( which it experienced its first ' test ' and demonstration of a ' supporting ' price around 400/oz inflation adjusted . Then the price fluctuated largely between 800 to 400 per ounce ( adjusted for inflation ) for the next 30 years . ( Other than a brief sympathetic ' Silver Tuesday ' spike due to the Hunt Brothers manipulation of silver prices in 1980 . ) Not sure if there is any causality , but it is interesting to note that the recent ' runup ' in price starts in 2000 at almost the same time the last country ( the Swiss ) went off the ' gold standard ' and gold was no longer tied to any currency ( or vise versa ) If you bought in '75 as a hedge against inflation , you were DOWN , as much as 50 % during much of the next 33 years . If you managed to buy at a ' low ' the couple of times that gold was going down and found support around 400/oz ( adjusted ) then you were on average up slightly as much as a little over 50 % ( throwing out silver Tuesday ) but then from about '98 through '05 had barely broken even . I personally view ' investments ' in gold at this time as a speculation . Look at the history below , and ask yourself if buying today would more likely end up as buying in 1972 or 1975 ? ( or gods forbid , 1980 ) Would you be taking advantage of a buying opportunity , or piling onto a bubble and end up buying at the high ? Note from Joe - The article <URL> adds to the discussion , and supports Chuck 's answer .
Gold is classified as a collectible so the gain rates are as follows : Held less than one year . The capital gain is taxed at ordinary income tax rate , ( up to 35 % ) . See <URL> . Held more than one year . The capital gain is also taxed at ordinary income rate , but with a cap of 28 % . In other words , if your marginal tax rate is 15 % , the gain is taxed at 15 % , not 28 % . If you 're rich and your marginal tax rate is 35 % , then you tax the gain at 28 % . See <URL> . So you 'd report a gain of $ 100 or $ 1,000 , depending on which coin you sold .
Reading the descriptions on Amazon.com it appears Investments is a graduate text and Elements of Investments is the undergraduate version of the text .
Yes , they are deductible . The treatment is a little weird because of the self-employed nature . Profit Sharing contributions made to employees are deductible at the Employer level and are reported on line 19 of the Schedule C. However , contributions made by the employer on behalf of the self-employed individual are reported on the individual 's 1040 ( line 28 ) , which reduces the individual 's adjusted gross income . Disclosure : I am not a CPA . Consult your CPA or Tax Attorney . Sources : <URL> - Page 8
This <URL> provides answers on how to short US Treasuries . Shorting US Treasuries is a way of betting that yields will rise on US Treasuries . Similar to hedging against rising interest rates .
The short answer : Original equity plus 100k , up to the fair market value of the home . You have two considerations when considering the deductability of the interest of a refinanced mortgage . First off , you can count interest on the principal that was used to acquire the home , plus any amount spent on improving the home ( document this , though ) . Secondly , you can count up to $ 100k ( married , filing jointly ) of home equity debt towards your maximum limit . This is a separate amount , not included in the first amount ( the original equity ) , so it is additive . However , you are restricted to the lesser of $ 100k , or the total fair market value of the home minus the amount considered in the first category ( acquisition/improvement ) , when considering both together . The IRS explains this in <URL> : Example . You own one home that you bought in 2001 . Its FMV now is $ 110,000 , and the current balance on your original mortgage ( home acquisition debt ) is $ 95,000 . Bank M offers you a home mortgage loan of 125 % of the FMV of the home less any outstanding mortgages or other liens . To consolidate some of your other debts , you take out a $ 42,500 home mortgage loan [ ( 125 % × $ 110,000 ) − $ 95,000 ] with Bank M. Your home equity debt is limited to $ 15,000 . This is the smaller of : $ 100,000 , the maximum limit , or $ 15,000 , the amount that the FMV of $ 110,000 exceeds the amount of home acquisition debt of $ 95,000 . So if your cash-out refinance allowed you to borrow more than the fair market value of the home , only deduct interest on principal up to that amount . The appraisal you presumably paid for during the refinance process will cover this .
There is a thing called the consumer price index ( CPI ) There is a basket of goods that the people who keep the index basically shop for . It is much more detailed for the sake of accuracy , but bottom line is they shop for the same stuff each year . They measure the difference from year to year and that gives you a pretty good idea of inflation from a regular person point of view . <URL> But it is n't without its faults , people bicker about the methodology and what constitutes the index . <URL>
Most of the gold prices at international markets are USD denominated . Hence the prices would be same in international markets where large players are buying and selling . However this does not mean that the prices to the individuals in local markets is same . The difference is due to multiple things like cost of physical delivery , warehousing , local taxation , conversion of Local currency to USD etc. . So in essence the price of Gold is similar to price of Crude Oil . The price of Oil is more or less same on all the markets exchanges , though there is small difference this is because of the cost of delivery/shipment which is borne by the buyer . However the cost of Oil to retail individual varies from country to country .
There is a clear difference between investing and gambling . When you invest , you are purchasing an asset that has value . It is purchased in the hopes that the asset will either increase in value or generate income . This definition holds true whether you are investing in shares of stock , in real estate , or in a comic book collection . You can also purchase debt : if you loan money , you own debt that will ( hopefully ) be repaid and generate income . Gambling is playing a game for chance . When you gamble , you have not purchased an asset ; you have only paid to participate in a game . Some games have a degree of skill ( blackjack , poker ) , others are pure chance ( slot machine ) . In most gambling games , the odds are against the player and in favor of the one running the game . Lottery tickets , without a doubt , are gambling . There is <URL> that discusses the difference between investing and gambling in more detail . One thing that this article discusses is the house edge , or the advantage that the people running a gambling game have over the players . With most casino games , the house has an advantage of between 1 and 15 % over the players . With a typical lottery , the house edge is 50 % . To address some of the points made by the OP 's recent edit and in the comments : I do not think the definitions of investment and gambling need to be dependent on expected value . There can be bad investments , where the odds of a good result are low . Similarly , there could be gambling games where the odds are in the player 's favor , either due to the skill of the player or through some quirk of the game ; it 's still gambling . Investing is purchasing an asset ; gambling is a game of chance . I do not consider a lottery ticket an asset . When you buy a lottery ticket , you are just paying a fee to participate in a game . It is the same as putting a coin in a slot machine . The fact that you are given a piece of paper and made to wait a few days for the result do not change this . Assets have inherent value . They might be valuable because of their ability to generate income ( stocks , bonds , debt ) , their utility ( precious metals , commodities , real estate ) , or their desirability as a thing of beauty ( collectibles ) , for example . A lottery ticket , however , is only an element of a game . It has no value other than in the game .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
The fund is a " <URL> " , a type of legal entity . Partners are akin to shareholders in corporations . In non-limited partnership , each partner has executive authorities . You 're probably meeting with one of the decision makers .
There are circumstances under which you do n't have to pay the penalty : You die and the account is paid to your beneficiary You become disabled You withdraw an amount less than is allowable as a medical expense deduction You begin substantially equal periodic payments Your withdrawal is related to a qualified domestic relations order ( QDRO ) Your withdrawal is used to pay qualified higher education expenses Your withdrawal is used for a qualified " first-home " purchase ( up to $ 10,000 ) ( <URL> ) Unless it is one of those circumstances , your 10 % penalty is on the pre-tax amount of the withdrawal that is subject to income tax ( so if some of it is not , then there is no penalty on that amount ) . Some states may also impose additional penalties . More <URL> . Note that the other penalty you pay is a hidden one - the lost opportunity cost of letting that money stay in place and grow until age 59 1/2 or later .
The utility of Morningstar star ratings for predicting future performance is questionable . Morningstar <URL> of the fact that the ratings reflect past performance ; they 're not even an attempt to predict future performance . Morningstar itself did a study of how its own star ratings compared to expense ratios as a predictor of fund success . They summarized the results <URL> : How often did it pay to heed expense ratios ? Every time . How often did it pay to heed the star rating ? Most of the time , with a few exceptions . How often did the star rating beat expenses as a predictor ? Slightly less than half the time , taking into account funds that expired during the time period . In other words , Morningstar 's own study showed that its own star ratings are not as good at predicting success as simply looking at the expense ratios of the funds . Now , the study also showed that the star ratings are not totally useless . If you have a choice between two low-expense funds and one has a better Mornigstar rating , that could be something to take into account . However , even there , there is a danger of reversion to the mean : if you buy a five-star fund , you 're buying a fund that has done especially well in the recent past , which means that there 's a good chance it wo n't do as well in the future ( because that past performance is hard to match ) . <URL> by Boglehead Larry Swedroe says : For four-and five-star equity funds , year-to-year persistence is the equivalent of a coin flip . Less than half of all mutual funds rated four or five-star at year end 1997 still held that high rating at year end 1998 . Basically , there is a reversion to a 3-star mean . In short , you should be very cautious about using Morningstar ratings as a way of deciding what to invest in . However , this does n't address the more general question of why your family member 's advisor picked the particular funds he did . Maybe he chose them because they had low expense ratios . Maybe he chose them to diversify relative to other investments your family member already has . You ca n't really start to assess whether those funds were a " good " choice without knowing what the available alternatives are . So basically , the advisor 's choices may be reasonable or they may not be , but the Morningstar rating alone does n't provide much help in deciding that question .
This is actually a very complicated question . The key reading in this area is a seminal paper by Almgren &amp; Chriss , " Optimal Execution of Portfolio Transactions " ( 2000 ) . They show that there 's a tradeoff between liquidating your portfolio faster and knowing the value with more certainty , versus liquidating more slowly ( and likely for a higher price ) but with less certainty . So for example , if you sold your entire position right now , you would know almost certainly how much you would get for the position . Or , you could sell off your position more slowly , and likely get more money , but you would have less certainty about how much you would get . The paper is available online at <URL>
Take the equation 1 + r _ { annual } = ( 1 + r _ { monthly } ) ^ 12 Notice , the right hand side is just compounding the rate 12 times . We can rearrange the equation to solve for the monthly rate : r _ { monthly } = ( 1 + r _ { annual } ) ^ ( 1/12 ) - 1 Substituting in r _ { annual } = .12 , we have r _ { monthly } = 0.00949 . So , for an annual rate of 12 % , that corresponds to a monthly rate of about 0.949 % .
The problem I have with gold is that it 's only worth what someone will pay you for it . To a degree that 's true with any equity , but with a company there are other capital resources etc that provide a base value for the company , and generally a business model that generates income . Gold just sits there . it does n't make products , it does n't perform services , you ca n't eat it , and the main people making money off of it are the folks charging a not insubstantial commission to sell it to you , or buy it back . Sure it 's used in small quantities for things like plating electrical contacts , dental work , shielding etc. . But Industrial uses account for only 10 % of consumption . Mostly it 's just hoarded , either in the form of Jewelry ( 50 % ) or ' investment ' ( bullion/coins ) 40 % . Its value derives largely from rarity and other than the last few years , there 's no track record of steady growth over time like the stock market or real-estate . Just look at what gold prices did between 10 to 30 years ago , I 'm not sure it came anywhere near close to keeping pace with inflation during that time . If you look at the chart , you see a steady price until the US went off the gold standard in 1971 , and rules regarding ownership and trading of gold were relaxed . There was a brief run up for a few years after that as the market ' found its level ' as it were , and you really need to look from about 74 forward ( which it experienced its first ' test ' and demonstration of a ' supporting ' price around 400/oz inflation adjusted . Then the price fluctuated largely between 800 to 400 per ounce ( adjusted for inflation ) for the next 30 years . ( Other than a brief sympathetic ' Silver Tuesday ' spike due to the Hunt Brothers manipulation of silver prices in 1980 . ) Not sure if there is any causality , but it is interesting to note that the recent ' runup ' in price starts in 2000 at almost the same time the last country ( the Swiss ) went off the ' gold standard ' and gold was no longer tied to any currency ( or vise versa ) If you bought in '75 as a hedge against inflation , you were DOWN , as much as 50 % during much of the next 33 years . If you managed to buy at a ' low ' the couple of times that gold was going down and found support around 400/oz ( adjusted ) then you were on average up slightly as much as a little over 50 % ( throwing out silver Tuesday ) but then from about '98 through '05 had barely broken even . I personally view ' investments ' in gold at this time as a speculation . Look at the history below , and ask yourself if buying today would more likely end up as buying in 1972 or 1975 ? ( or gods forbid , 1980 ) Would you be taking advantage of a buying opportunity , or piling onto a bubble and end up buying at the high ? Note from Joe - The article <URL> adds to the discussion , and supports Chuck 's answer .
Gail Vaz-Oxlade has a great interactive budget on her website , www.gailvazoxlade.com . If you watch Til Debt Do Us Part , this spreadsheet will automatically tell you how much to put in your " jars " each week in each category too ! Good luck .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
It is a bit more complicated than whether it pays more or less dividends . You should make your decision based on how well the company is performing both fundamentally and technically . Concentrating mainly on the fundamental performance for this question , most good and healthy companies make enough profits to both pay out dividends and invest back into the company to keep growing the company and profits . In fact a good indication of a well performing company is when their dividend per share and earnings per share are both growing each year and the dividends per share are less than the earnings per share ( that way you know dividends are being paid out from new profits and not existing cash holdings ) . This information can give you an indication of both a stable and growing company . I would rather invest in a company that pays little or no dividends but is increasing profits and growing year after year than a company that pays higher dividends but its profits are decreasing year after year . How long will the company continue to pay dividends for , if it starts making less and less profits to pay them with ? You should never invest in a company solely because they pay dividends , if you do you will end up losing money . It is no use making $ 1 in dividends if you lose $ 2 + because the share price drops . The annual returns from dividends are often between 1 % and 6 % , and , in some cases , up to 10 % . However , annual returns from capital gains can be 20 % , 50 % , 100 % or more for a stable and growing company .
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
end question
start question
in which territories there is no income tax for its residents ?
Monaco is a very unique and extraordinary country . It compensates on the lack of personal income tax with <URL> from the employers ( many employees in Monaco are actually French residents , and Monaco residents who are French citizens pay French taxes ) . There are n't many places like Monaco . <URL> , another European city-state , is one of the few . Another example is <URL> , they have enough oil for all their needs . <URL> covers all you need . Note that being resident of a country with no income tax is not enough . ManyThere are countries ( US included ) that tax their citizens on the world-wide income . Thus , US citizens living as residents in Monaco still have to pay the US income taxes .
Cash is king . PIN-based debit transactions are cheap . In terms of credit cards , a regular ( ie . not a gold card ) with no rewards has the lowest rates . Bigger merchants with lots of card volume likely have better deals that make the differences less pronounced .
I do n't think it really matters , my understanding is that as a sole trader there is no distinction between your personal and business tax affairs . The distinction between your personal and business account is mainly for your own personal benefit to make it easier to differentiate between " wages " and retained earnings . If you want to maintain this distinction with regard to tax then you need to somehow differentiate between tax paid on your " wage " and tax paid on retained earnings . You could then either make two payments , or pay from either and transfer the difference from the other . Either way , it 's just a matter of perspective rather than something with a physical difference .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
We ca n't give you specific advice without a ton more details , and even then the " right " answer depends on your own preferences . You need to determine your own goals . I can make a couple of observations you might think about , though . Frequently , career progress and lifetime wealth are completely compatible goals , but they may be incompatible with current income . That is , the best way to maximize your wealth is often to take a career-advancing job that may not pay highly , work it for a few years , then change jobs and repeat . Each time you change , make sure you are landing at a higher position than your last . If you are successful you will end up making a lot of money and truly advancing your career . What you give up is stability and comfort . Normally I 'd say if you are experiencing financial distress , it 's time to take a high paying job for at least a while while you get your feet under you . However , since you mention you are a student , I infer that you are young and may be in a position to borrow or just live a very poor life while you get established . These are both normal for that time of life . Just because a job does n't involve working on a team does n't mean it wo n't advance your career . Advancing your career frequently means having lots of lines of relevant work on your resume . You should keep each job for at least a few years ( maybe 3 ) so you do n't look like a quitter , but in terms of marketability , lots of different kinds of experiences are good , including working alone . You have n't mentioned your alternative jobs . If the question is whether to take a job that 's not so great or to be unemployed , the not-so-great job is pretty much always better . You wo n't enhance your career at all by not working . In terms of worrying , I 'd say having a successful and ambitious life will always involve worry . You need to channel that energy to something positive . Make a plan of what you want to do with your life , when you will pay off your debts , and what your ultimate career goal is . Make a budget and figure out how you will get by . Write it down . This will help turn unhelpful stress into helpful action . Good luck .
You mean to tell me that everyone does n't pay his/her fair share ?! Please say it is n't so . :) Therein lies the welfare state : Tax the rich more heavily to subsidize the poor , and hobble the rich 's ability to do so on their own accord . In any case , though , in the United States , if you make any money whatsoever , that usually counts as income , and can hence be taxed . <URL> . Pretty all-inclusive , is n't it ? Businesses are allowed to deduct expenses to count against their income , but if one has more expenses than income year after year , ( a ) this is the road to financial ruin , and ( b ) the IRS puts an end to the tax losses after enough years of failing to show a profit . So , sure , if a businessperson does n't have any income , then they 're technically using the roads , etc. , " for free , " but unless the businessperson wants to live off the land and the kindness of strangers , he 'd better turn a profit eventually . Then he 'll be taxed .
You will invest 1000 # each month and the transaction fee is 10 # per trade , so buying a bunch of stocks each month would not be wise . If you buy 5 stocks , then transaction costs will eat up 5 % of your investment . So if you insist on taking this approach , you should probably only buy one or two stocks a month . It sounds like you 're interested in active investing &amp; would like a diversified portfolio , so maybe the best approach for you is <URL> . Start by creating a well diversified portfolio " core " with index funds . Once you have a solid core , make some active investment decisions with the " satellite " portion of the portfolio . You can <URL> into the core and make active bets when the opportunity arises , so you 're not killed by transaction fees .
Your taxes are only slightly more complex than previous years . Therefore if you were comfortable doing your taxes using software last year , you should n't have any problems doing them this year . Both the software and professional should use how you answer a few basic questions , and the information on your paperwork , to guide you though your options . They will calculate the different approaches and present you with the options . One thing that you will need is a social security number for the child in order to claim them as a dependent . So If you have n't started the <URL> you should do so now .
Charitable deductions ( and all Schedule A deductions ) are applied to your marginal tax calculation . They reduce the taxable income on the line 43 of your tax return ( form 1040 ) . When you calculate your tax on the <URL> , you start with that number . You then deduct all the capital gains from it and calculate the ordinary tax on line 24 of the worksheet .
Yes , you will need to pay capital gains tax in MA for that transaction . Here 's how " <URL> " is defined in MA . It short , it follows the Federal definitions for most cases , including yours . Note that MA follows the Federal rules with regards to the <URL> ( exclusion of gains on the sale of principal residence ) .
With a match , the 401 ( k ) becomes the priority , up to that match , often ahead of other high interest debt . Without the match , the analysis is more about the cost within the 401 ( k ) . The 401 ( k ) is a tax deferred account ( let 's not go on a tangent to Roth 401 ( k ) ) so ideally , you 'd be skimming off money at 25 % and saving it till you retire , so some of it is taxed at 0 , 10 , 15 % . If the fees in the 401 ( k ) are say 1.5 % between the underlying funds and management fee , it does n't take long to wipe out the potential 10 or 15 % you are trying to gain . Yes , there 's a risk that cap gain rates go away , but with today 's tax law , the long term rate is 15 % . So that money put into a long term low cost ETF will have reinvested dividends taxed at 15 % and upon sale , a 15 % rate on the gains . There are great index ETFs with sub - .1 % annual cost . My simple answer is - If the total cost in that 401 ( k ) is .5 % or higher , I 'd pass . Save the money in an outside account , using IRAs as best you can . ( The exact situation needs to be looked at very carefully . In personal finance , there 's a lot of ' grey ' . For example , a frequent job changer can view the 401 ( k ) as a way of saving pretax , knowing the fee will only last 2 years , and will end with a transfer to the IRA )
One option is to look at the <URL> - As George Marian notes , this is by no means a perfect way to " estimate " how much you 'll owe . Other key questions for you to answer : Have you setup the proper number of deductions for you and your family ? E.g. if you have a partner ( wife or husband ) who doesnt have a job , do you have 2 federal and 2 state deductions noted ? Take 30 minutes to identify the major tax deductions that you qualify for . For example , do you typically itemize your deductions or take the standard deduction ? Do you invest money into IRA 's , 401k 's , HSA 's , or any other tax deferred investment vehicle ? Do you pay any interest on student loans ? Here is the <URL> on tax deductions . Another decent website lists the <URL> . It is n't hard to find these type of websites , all I did was to google " <URL> " . There 's no silver bullet here . The best you can do is to understand the key inputs into how your taxes are calculated , and then identify the most important tax deductions that you might take . Then pray that you have n't missed some nuance and use a tax program early in January to check your assumptions so you 're not completely surprised when April rolls around . A final suggestion : do your own taxes using a website like TurboTax . Take the time to " itemize " your tax deductions just to learn what is tax deductible . You can figure out how the big parts of tax law works by just looking at what you could deduct in the future .
Aside from asking why you chose a fund that has an .80 % expense , I see no issue with frequent deposits . If this is actually being treated as a retirement account , you should make sure it fits into your overall asset allocation goals .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
The total outlay in 1 . is $ 15552 and in 2 . is $ 15560 , so if you had the $ 4000 ( and ignoring forgone interest which is very low at the moment ) , then you 'd only need $ 8 of savings from the tax deduction for it to be worthwhile - I suspect they set it up so that the numbers would be the same modulo rounding errors . From your stats you probably do n't have the $ 4000 up front , so you 'd have to borrow it . Let 's guess it might mean a 25 % interest rate given your poor credit situation , and that you 'd pay most of it back in the last 2 of the 12 months , so it 'd cost you about $ 1000 . I guess your tax bracket may mean that the savings from the tax deduction still make that worthwhile , but I 'm not familiar enough with US tax to be sure .
Venezuela is a command economy , and one that is n't doing terribly well right now , with rampant inflation in the several hundred percent range . As such , they 've tried to limit or eliminate exchanges between their currency and foreign currencies . Currently , they allow a limited amount of exchange at fixed rates ( according to a <URL> , those vary between 6.3 , 13.5 , and 200 ) for certain purchases , and then otherwise disallow exchange between the currencies . However , there is a black market ( illegal in Venezuela , but legal in the US ) which allows the price to float , and is much higher - 800 or so according to that article from last year . A recent <URL> lists the black market rate at closer to 900 , and slightly different official rates . It 's worth a read as it explains the different official rates in detail : Currently there are four exchange rates : First is the official one , called CENCOEX , and which charges 6.30 bolivars to the dollar . It is only intended for the importation of food and medicine . The next two exchange rates are SICAD I ( 12 bolivars per dollar ) and SICAD 2 ( 50 bolivars per dollar ) ; they assign dollars to enterprises that import all other types of goods . Because of the fact that US dollars are limited , coupons are auctioned only sporadically ; usually weekly in the case of SICAD 1 and daily for SICAD 2 . However , due to the economic crisis , no dollars have been allocated for these foreign exchange transactions and there has n't been an auction since August 18 , 2015 . As of November 2015 , the Venezuelan government held only $ 16 billion in foreign exchange reserves , the lowest level in over ten years , and an amount that will dry up completely in four years time at the current rate of depletion . The last and newest exchange rate is the SIMADI , currently at 200 bolivars per dollar . This rate is reserved for the purchase and sale of foreign currency to individuals and businesses .
The IRS defines income quite specifically . On the topic <URL> , they note : You can receive income in the form of money , property , or services . This section discusses many kinds of income that are taxable or nontaxable . It includes discussions on employee wages and fringe benefits , and income from bartering , partnerships , S corporations , and royalties . Bartering , or giving someone wages ( or similar ) in something other than currency ( or some other specifically defined things , like fringe benefits ) , is taxed at fair market value : Bartering Bartering is an exchange of property or services . You must include in your income , at the time received , the fair market value of property or services you receive in bartering . For additional information , Refer to Tax Topic 420 - Bartering Income and Barter Exchanges . Bartering is more specifically covered in <URL> : You must include in gross income in the year of receipt the fair market value of goods or services received from bartering . Generally , you report this income on Form 1040 , Schedule C ( PDF ) , Profit or Loss from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ ( PDF ) , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) . If you failed to report this income , correct your return by filing a Form 1040X ( PDF ) , Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return . Refer to Topic 308 for information on filing an amended return . More details about income in general beyond the above articles is available in <URL> . It goes into great detail about different kinds of income . In your example , you 'd have to calculate the fair market value of an avocado , and then determine how much cash-equivalent you were paid in . The IRS would n't necessarily tell you what that value was ; you 'd calculate it based on something you feel you could justify to them afterwards . The way I 'd do it would be to write down the price of avocados at each pay period , and apply a dollar-cost-averaging type method to determine the total pay 's fair value . While the avocado example is of course largely absurd , the advent of bitcoins has made this much more relevant . Publication 525 has this to say about virtual currency : Virtual Currency . If your employer gives you virtual currency ( such as Bitcoin ) as payment for your services , you must include the fair market value of the currency in your income . The fair market value of virtual currency ( such as Bitcoin ) paid as wages is subject to federal income tax withholding , Federal Insurance Contribution Act ( FICA ) tax , and Federal Unemployment Tax Act ( FUTA ) tax and must be reported on Form W-2 , Wage and Tax Statement . Gold would be fundamentally similar - although I am not sure it 's legal to pay someone in gold ; assuming it were , though , its fair market value would be again the definition of income . Similarly , if you 're paid in another country 's currency , the US dollar equivalent of that is what you 'll pay taxes on , at the fair market value of that currency in US dollars .
Neither . A Look at <URL> will show you the math by which taxable income is calculated . 22 lines to get to your total income . 37 to your adjusted gross , 61 to your taxable income . ( Note , there are tax credits that may appear in the remaining lines , which can wipe out any or all of the tax bill of line 61 . You can be in the 10 % bracket , but have Uncle Sam pick up the remaining tab . ) For most people in the US , personal exemptions and the standard deduction are the two largest reductions to one 's income . For the next group , it 's the <URL> that will tally enough deductions to exceed the standard deduction and the taxpayer benefits from " itemizing . " The recent Question <URL> should answer how you know your bracket once you arrive at your taxable income .
I got notice from Charles Schwab that the forms were n't being mailed out until the middle of February because , for some reason , the forms were likely to change and rather than mail them out twice , they mailed them out once . Perhaps some state tax laws took effect ( such as two Oregon bills regarding tax rates for higher incomes ) and they waited on that . While I have n't gotten my forms mailed to me yet , I did go online and get the electronic copies that allowed me to finish my taxes already .
Charitable donations are deducted from your taxable income . The impact to the amount of tax you pay depends on your tax bracket . So if you are in a 25 % tax bracket you will save $ .25 per dollar that you donate to charity . There are limits to the amount of charitable donations you can claim depending on your filing status ( single , married , etc. ) and your taxable income . In order to claim charitable donations you have to itemize your deductions which means that you ca n't use the 1040EZ form . Depending on your situation it may be better to take the standard deduction rather than itemize . The charitable organization will issue you a receipt for donations given during the tax year and you should receive that from them by the end of January . I believe you need to have a receipt in order to legally deduct the donation from your taxes .
end question
start question
If I pay my partner an allowance , does she need to pay tax ?
No , in the UK you do n't need to pay tax on gifts in general . In theory there could be an <URL> issue . But it 's highly unlikely to apply here . It could only apply at all if all of the below apply : you are n't married to each other you die within 7 years of a gift the total of the money you leave at death plus the gifts in the past 7 years is more than the inheritance tax threshold , currently # 325,000 But even then the allowance would probably count as a " <URL> " and so would be ignored completely : Regular gifts from the giver 's income There 's no Inheritance Tax on gifts from the deceased 's income ( after they paid tax ) as long as the deceased had enough money to maintain their normal lifestyle .
You understood it pretty right . Every fiscal year ( which runs from April 6 year Y to April 5 year Y +1 ) , you can deposit a total GBP15k ( this number is subject to an annual increase by HMRC ) into your ISAs . You can open 2 new ISA every year but the amount deposited to those ISAs shall not excess GBP15k in total . From the 2016/17 tax year some ISAs now permit you to replace any funds you have withdrawn , without using up your allowance . It used to be that if you deposited GBP15K and then withdrew GBP5K , you could not pay in to that ISA again within that tax year as you had already used your full allowance . Under new Flexible ISA rules this would be allowed providing you replace the funds in the same ISA account and within the same tax year ( strongly recommend that you check the small prints related to your account to make sure this is he case ) . Any gains and losses on the investments held in the ISA accounts are for you to take . i.e. . If you make investment gains of GBP5K this does not reduces your allowance . You will still be able to deposit GBP15k ( or whatever HMRC increases that number to ) in the following year . You are also allowed to consolidate your ISAs . You can ask bank A to transfer the amount held into an ISA with bank held with bank B . This is usually done by filling a special form with the bank that will held the money post transactions . Again here be very careful . DO NOT withdraw the money to transfer it yourself as this would count against the GBP15K limit . Instead follow the procedures from the bank . Finally if you do n't use your allowance for a given year , you can not use it during the following year . i.e. if you do n't deposit the GBP15K this year , then you can not deposit GBP30K next year . NB : I used the word " deposit " . It does not matter to HMRC if the money get invested or not . If you are in a rush on April 4th , just make sure the money is wired into the ISA account by the 5th . No need to rush and make bad investment decision . You can invest it later . Hope it helps
The back pay will explain the high rate . You are being taxed on a month one basis . <URL> says W1 ( week 1 ) and M1 ( month 1 ) are emergency tax codes . This means your tax is based only on what you are paid in the current pay period , not the whole year . These codes are sometimes known as ' non-cumulative ' . Thus the tax is calculated as if you were getting the amount you got this month for every month in the year . So compare 12 times the amount with the tax allowances to see where you get taxed at the higher rate . ( or divide the allowances by 12 ) When your records have been consolidated the emergency code is removed and the amount you pay will be adjusted to the correct level and this will include a refund if necessary Doing a calculation at annual rates Gross salary of # 68,500 first # 11,000 at 0 next # 32,000 at 20 % = # 6,400 next # 25,500 at 40 % = # 10,200 So net tax of # 16,600 a rate of 24.23 % So you received about # 5,708 in one month
As a full time student , you do not need to pay council tax as long as everyone residing at your address is also a full time student . The course you are studying must be at least 1 year in length , but this does n't mean you have to have been studying on it for a year to qualify for exemption . I believe this is the same for all councils in the UK . Assuming this is the case for you , you will be able to apply for an exemption if you are sent a bill for council tax . <URL> . There is also a helpful page from the National Union of Students <URL> . To add a personal anecdote , I studied at university full time in the UK between 2009 and 2013 . I lived in private accommodation all year round for 3 of those years , worked every summer and never paid a penny in council tax . You should n't have to either .
No . Borrowing is not allowed , but if you take a withdrawal , you have 60 days to deposit into another IRA account . This effectively creates a 60 day loan . Not what you 're really looking for . If you take this withdrawal and re-deposit to new account within 60 days , no problem . If not , you owe tax on the untaxed amount as well as a 10 % penalty . This comes from IRS ' Publication 590 , I have the document memorized by substance , not page number .
Extra contribution above your limit will be <URL> until you withdraw it ( unless you make the withdrawal before the closest Tax Day ) , in addition to the ( ordinary ) income tax on all the gains . The limits are for the contributions , not earnings . What you earn inside the account does n't affect your contribution limits .
mbhunter , Here 's the portal for US Dept of Labor child employment laws : <URL> Note the first two paras : " The Fair Labor Standards Act 's ( FLSA ) minimum age requirements do not apply to minors employed by their parents , or by a person acting as their guardian . An exception to this occurs in mining , manufacturing and occupations where the minimum age requirement of 18 years old applies . State laws often follow the same pattern as the Fair Labor Standards Act with regard to minors working for their parents . Consult your state department of labor for specific guidance . " So it looks like there is no legal compulsion ; unless you are having your daughter bore engine cylinders or set explosives at the backyard silver mine .
<URL> Mr D receives a dividend of # 100 cash from his Limited Company . The way tax credits work means that this actually represents only 90 % of the tax charge so to work out the taxable income it needs to be ' grossed up ' to 100 % . You do this by taking the 100 , dividing it by 90 then multiplying it by 100 , giving # 111.11 . For the purposes of a tax return this is the dividend income . Next you need to think about how much tax should be paid . This depends on which tax bracket you fall into : Basic rate tax payers pay 0 % on dividends Dividend income = # 111.11 Incurring tax of : Tax charge at 10 % = # 11.11 Less 10 % tax credit = - # 11.11 Tax due = # 0 So as I said this results in income tax of 0 % . Though on your tax return you have to go through all those steps . As the author puts it , just the vagaries of ministers and to confuse mere mortals . Primarily the credit is because you have already paid corporation tax on the income , so a bit of relief and not to tax you twice .
No , it will show on the LLC tax return ( <URL> ) , in the capital accounts ( schedules <URL> , L and M-2 ) , attributed to your partner .
Banks have a financial , and regulational duty called " <URL> " , established to avoid a number of historical problems occurring again , such as money laundering , terrorism financing , fraud , etc. . Thanks to the scale , and scope of the problem ( millions of customers , billions of transactions a day ) , the way they 're handling this usually involves fuzzy logics matching , looking for irregular patterns , problem escalation , and other warning signs . When exceeding some pre-set limit , these signal clues are then filtered , and passed on for human inspection . Needless to say , these algorithms are not perfect , although , thanks to financial pressure , they are improving . In order to understand why your trading account has been suspended , it 's useful to look at the incentives : false positives - suspending your trade , and assuming you guilty until proven otherwise - could cost them merely your LTV ( lifetime value of customer - how much your business brings in as profit ) ; while false negatives - not catching you while engaging in activities listed above - might cost them multi-month investigations , penalties , and court . Ultimately , this is n't against you . I 've been with the bank for 15 years and the money in the accounts has been very slowly accumulated via direct-deposit paychecks over that time . From this I gather the most likely explanation , is that you 've hit somekind of account threshold , that the average credit-happy customers usually do not exceed , which triggered a routine checkup . How do you deal with it ? <URL> There is only one way to survive angry customers emotionally : you have to realize that they 're not angry at you ; they 're angry at your business , and you just happen to be a convenient representative of that business . And since they 're treating you like a puppet , an iconic stand-in for the real business , you need to treat yourself as a puppet , too . Pretend you 're a puppeteer . The customer is yelling at the puppet . They 're not yelling at you . They 're angry with the puppet . Your job is to figure out , " gosh , what can I make the puppet say that will make this person a happy customer ? " In an investigation case , go with boredom : The puppet does n't care , have no feelings , and is eternally patient . Figure out what are the most likely words that will have the matter " mentally resolved " from the investigator 's point of view , tell them what they have to hear , and you 'll have case closed in no time . Hope this helps .
Yes , you pay interest , but the interest is applied to the price of the underlying shorted not the amount of cash proceeds of the sale since the underlying is what 's borrowed not underlying . The interest will increase the value of the short liability and will contribute to a diminishing maintenance margin . The cash is posted as collateral , so the net of interest charged by borrowing the underlying less the interest received from the cash collateral is what 's paid . Sometimes , when there is no demand to short a particular underlying , and a broker passes these rates through less a fee , the loan balance can actually decrease because the interest received from the cash collateral exceeds the interest paid on the underlying . While interest is charged and applied daily between brokers , the broker may charge this on nearly any basis they please .
Just speaking from my experience here . When I was younger ( lol only 23 now ) , I did n't really get pocket money . If I wanted something I had to work for this , luckily at 13 I scored a paper round gaining # 10 per week . I would personally say to encourage children to do some " work " , whether its a paper round , or even just house chores . I learned early on , that to get money you have to work for it . I 've always had a job since 13 , most of my college years I held 2 jobs at a time , even 3 at 1 point . Many of my friends did n't work for their pocket money , they relied on handouts , quite a few of these friends have later on in life taken the easy route , not working and rely on state ( pocket money ) , or still have mummy and daddy pay for everything So my moral is ; do n't just give out willy-nilly , teach some value to money and it will go a long way ;) / 2 cents
The service they provided is Triage , which is also what you did . The medical staff at any Hospital/ER/Urgent Care have to decide who gets seen first and what level of care is appropriate for that patient based on the medical situation . In general if the medical care is either beyond the beyond the scope of the Urgent Care , or it is likely to result in an overnight stay they will either send you to a hospital or call an ambulance for you . The Urgent Care has to bill because some portion of their resources ( people and equipment ) were focus on evaluating your daughter . In some cases the diagnoses takes seconds , in other cases they may perform a test or two before being able to determine . I would approach the insurance company . Under the rule of some policies fees for urgent care and ERs are waived or reduced if the situation results in hospital stay , or surgery , or some other elevated care level . If ultimately the insurance company wo n't budge , make sure that they do count this bill when determining your deductible and out-of-pocket amount for the year .
I just withdrew the the amount for the partial loan payment , so now I end up paying only partial penalty for the amount i needed to fulfil the loan .
Re the business license - in California business licenses are given by the municipal/county governments , so you 'll have to check that with your city hall or county office . Re taxes - yes , you 'll have to pay taxes , as with any income . Services are considered " imputed income " , and generally you 'd recognize income to the extent they would be paying had they been paying the full price ( or the actual cost of services provided , if more ) . Since this is a hobby and not a for-profit enterprise , your deductions may be limited by the actual income and the 2 % AGI threshold . See more <URL> .
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
I have been a private tutor on and off for about 30 years , in three countries , so I understand your concerns ! I always kept records as though it was a real business - even if I only had one student I kept records of dates/times/names , and also tracked where the money went ( I never spent it straight up - it always got deposited to complete the paper trail ; yes , this is paranoia on my part ) . I 've never been asked to prove anything with regards this income ( although I have no Canadian experience ) . It 's always been a case of tell the tax folks and make sure my arse is covered if they come asking questions . Hope this helps .
You need to watch out for a couple landmines before embarking on this . Firstly , you need to avoid affirming the debt . When you affirm the debt it gives them grounds to restart the clock and if your negotiations fail , you do n't want that . Secondly , you do n't want to pay them until you have , in writing , a statement of what you 're getting in consideration for paying . In other words , if you call your creditor and say " I will pay in full if you remove this from my credit report " and they say " ok great we 'll certainly do that , I can take payment over the phone " . Stop right there . Six months after this happens you do n't want to find out that the person you spoke to thought you meant marking the debt as paid as opposed to fully removing it . You need to demand that they give you written notice that they will be removing the collection record from ALL of your credit reports and that the debt will be fully settled . As a side note , you can start negotiations by offering a lower amount than full . For example you might say something like " I see on my credit report that you 've listed this collection account against me . I can not affirm that that debt is valid but if you agree to take 50 % and remove the record from my credit report " . From here they could say anything but at least you 've given yourself room to negotiate . Edit : To get back to your original question . The impact to your score will probably be pretty big if you are successful in having all of your collection accounts removed . Creditkarma will provide you with a free FAKO score and can give you what your score would be if you do certain things ( like pay off collections accounts ) . As far as how fast the score will be updated , it 'll be updated as fast as the collector removes your account . I 'm guessing the process would take around a month . I 'm basing that on how long it takes to do a credit report dispute . It could be less time if all your creditors do their reporting very quickly . It could be more if they do n't do what they 're supposed to and you have to do a dispute .
If you just want to have high score because you 've heard its useful , then what you need to do is be smart about your credit , and never abuse it . Paying for money you do n't need ( AKA taking a loan just to boost your credit score ) is not being smart . Its wasteful , and unless you need to show creditors in the very near future that you 're worthy of their attention ( i.e. : plan on a mortgage within a year ) , it is unnecessary . It is true that credit cards affect your score at a slower pace , though ( in positive direction , that is ) . One of the first articles I wrote on my blog was <URL> . Read it , if you have a credit card - doing this will help you increase your credit score . If you do n't have a credit card - get one , for free . I wrote another couple of articles on this : <URL> , and why you want it <URL> .
how much taxes would I pay on my income from the rent they would pay me ? The same as on any other income . California does n't have any special taxes for rental/passive income . Bothe CA and the Federal tax laws do have special treatment , but it is for losses from rental . Income is considered unearned regular income and is taxed at regular brackets . Would I be able to deduct the cost of the mortgage from the rental income ? The cost of mortgage , yes . I.e. : the interest you pay . Similarly you can deduct any other expense needed to maintain the property . This is assuming you 're renting it out at FMV . If not , would I pay the ordinary income tax on that income ? In particular , would I pay CA income tax on it , even though the property would be in WA ? Yes . Do n't know how WA taxes rental income , but since you are a California tax resident - you will definitely be taxed by California on this , as part of your worldwide income .
end question
start question
Can I save money on interest by paying a loan multiple times per month ?
The short answer is " yes " , paying more towards the loan as soon as a you can will reduce the interest . There are <URL> or you could work up a spreadsheet using the specialized family of functions : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . My personal view : The amount of interest you offset in this manner is going to be fairly small ( I 'm going to guess less than $ 5 or $ 10 a month , but I have n't done the math ) . I would say what is more important is to automate your payments at a comfortable level , while making sure your other obligations are taken care of . Then add an extra payment when you save up a chunk of money to pay towards it . Make sure you never miss a payment . That means making sure you set up emergency fund to cover the payments if you lose your job or need to visit a sick family member for a while or the car breaks down or ...
The simple interest rate for an investment that costs $ 10,000 and returns $ 10,500 in 13 days is 5 % . To calculate the annual effective compound interest rate , the equation is where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . To calculate the annual effective continuously compounded interest rate , the equation is also where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . Continuous compounding is more precise and easier to manipulate but possibly not as intuitive .
The short answer is " yes " , paying more towards the loan as soon as a you can will reduce the interest . There are <URL> or you could work up a spreadsheet using the specialized family of functions : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> . My personal view : The amount of interest you offset in this manner is going to be fairly small ( I 'm going to guess less than $ 5 or $ 10 a month , but I have n't done the math ) . I would say what is more important is to automate your payments at a comfortable level , while making sure your other obligations are taken care of . Then add an extra payment when you save up a chunk of money to pay towards it . Make sure you never miss a payment . That means making sure you set up emergency fund to cover the payments if you lose your job or need to visit a sick family member for a while or the car breaks down or ...
Your tax bracket is determined by your total taxable income in a given year , where money drawn from a traditional-style deferred-tax 401k or IRA is taxable income . ( Money drawn from a Roth account was taxed before deposit and is not taxed when withdrawn after the relevant date . ) Your recent salary history has no effect on this , except salary in the same year -- and there is no advantage to be gained by taking a deliberate pay cut for its own sake .
You really should be able to avoid bank charges entirely . If you 're paying for a checking account , know that there are ones available for free , even without a minimum balance . Same goes for credit cards . There are plenty of no-annual-fee cards out there , so unless you 're getting fabulous rewards that make it worth it , never pay an annual fee . Avoid ATM fees by avoiding the ATM , getting cash back at stores or taking it out at the bank . Overdraft fees and other penalties can be avoided by keeping an eye on your balances and keeping a register . Take advantage of email or text notifications that many banks offer when your account balance goes below a certain amount , or your credit card gets close to its maximum . And I agree with MrChrister that many fees will be refunded if you 've made a one-time mistake . Talk with a customer service rep , apologize , emphasize that you have a good record of on-time payments , and ask if the fee can be taken off your account .
I feel the same way too ! With two kids , I feel like I am spending what it would cost to run a small country just on clothes , shoes , jackets , replacing everything as it is grown out of ! A few things I do : I shop in affordable places and check out sales , and look for the cutest things I can find there in a reasonable price range . If you are n't browsing in the $ 60 baby dresses , you are n't tempted by them . I do n't go looking at $ 60 shirts for my son , he 's five and he does n't need a $ 60 shirt . I also really only shop for him two or three times a year for clothing ... back to school and early spring are the big ones . For fall I got him five pairs of jeans , maybe 8 tops , new socks , etc. . I 'll add in a couple of heavier sweatshirts , etc as I go , but I really do n't browse for him ... it 's too easy to find something to buy ! I look for inexpensive lines for the things that do n't really matter ... bright T 's for my son for summer that just get dirty and spilled on , sleepers , socks , pj 's , etc. . Joe Fresh , Walmart , Old Navy , Costco . Then I choose a few things that I know I want brand name or more stylish options for , and find ways to buy them more cheaply . These might be things like logo 'd fleece tops , trendy jackets , things where the style is actually noticed . I buy jeans at Old Navy for my son when they are on sale , I buy Gusti/Genevieve LaPierre snowsuits at Sears when they are 40 % off in Sept/Oct . The Childrens ' Place has good quality , stylish clothing for kids and if you watch , they always have deals on their jeans or tops ... then I stock up . And for younger kids , Old Navy and The Children 's Place jeans have adjustable waistbands . I 've already unrolled cuffs and let out the waist in my son 's back to school jeans . I have friends who are starting to take in bags of too-small clothing to consignment shops ... if they come away with $ 100 , it 's still $ 100 ! For preteen and teen kids who want certain brands , etc , I think it is very reasonable to say " we will pay x for each pair of jeans , or x for winter boots . If you want to throw in some babysitting/birthday money and go buy something more expensive , you are welcome to do so ! " That way , you are still paying for basics , but they can feel like they are n't stuck wearing things they do n't like . Tell them ... you can buy 5 tops at $ x each for back to school , or 10 tops at $ x. And lastly , and most sadly of all : buy less . . and stop shopping . There , I said it out loud . I try to be careful of what I buy , but I still find things I bought that were never worn . Now I keep a return basket in laundry/mudroom ... if I do n't love it , if it seems impractical now that I got it home , if I wanted it just in case item # 1 did n't work ... it goes in the basket . And I return them . I suck it up , I take it with me and go get my money back . Mistakes can be fixed if the items have n't been worn or washed .
They use an amortization table like can be found <URL> . The Forumula is not that complex where : A = payment Amount per period P = initial Principal ( loan amount ) r = interest rate per period n = total number of payments or periods You will need to add 50 to the A to account for the payment fee amount though .
I doubt that there is an arrangement with any country that would allow you to transfer money out of a 401 ( k ) and roll it over to another country that is n't governed by US Tax Laws without taking a distribution . The US government wo n't let you pull out like that without taking its cut . There may be , but I 'd be surprised . Check around in the appropriate venues . If you 're making a distribution that incurs penalties , then that 's what you 're doing . If you can do so without incurring penalties , then great for you , just deposit into the vehicle of your choice in your country .
Yes . Companies increase , decrease , start paying and stop paying dividends when they think it appropriate . If a company has been going through some problems and makes a loss , or even a large decrease in profits , they can choose to stop paying dividends until things improve . Many companies did this during the <URL> .
One is a choice the other is not . While they are both liabilities on the balance sheet , in the real world they are quite different . We do not feel as much ownership over our money that goes to interest payments as we do over our tax payments . Taxes pay for our government and the services it provides . Interest , on the other hand , is what we pay in order to have a bank loan us money . Similar to paying for a good or service obtained from some other business , we do not feel we have a say in what the bank does with that money . If we disapprove of a business ' practices , we stop doing business with them ; assuming there are other choices . We can not practically avoid dealing with our government . We certainly feel that we should have a say in what is done with our tax money . I doubt there is anyone in the world that completely approves of their government 's spending . It is very easy to feel marginalized with regard to our tax payments . For example , some people feel resentment because their taxes fund the welfare rolls . All that said , I believe there is little overlap between the two groups . It seems to me that you are referring to those with large amounts of high interest ( e.g. credit card ) debt . I doubt that a large percentage of them are scouring the tax laws , looking for deductions and loopholes . If they had that mindset , they would also be working hard to get out of the hole they are in . In summary , we choose to pay a financial adviser , to take out a loan or to obtain a credit card . We do not choose to pay taxes . Since taxes are supposed to pay for our government and things which should benefit everyone , we want a say in what is done with it . This is also the case because it is forced on us . ( " Fine son , I 'll lend you some money , but I do n't want you buying cigarettes with it . " ) Since our say is limited and we likely will not approve of everything our government does , we want to exert what control we do have : reduce our payments as best we can .
You most definitely can . However , not in the same way . For the rental property - you deduct the mortgage interest from the rental income on schedule E. For the primary residence - you deduct the mortgage interest as an itemized deduction on schedule A . If your primary residence became a rental property ( or the other way around ) - you deduct the interest you paid on it as a primary residence on schedule A , and the interest you paid on it when it was a rental - on schedule E . In this case there are more rules on expenses and deductions to follow , not just the interest expense .
Your practice of waiting until you can pay cash is a good one . It will certainly prevent you from getting into debt ! Now , to be clear , your question puts a credit card in the same category as a loan , but it does n't have to be . You could use a credit card almost like cash , if you are careful . I 'm not familiar with the system in France , but in the US , even if you are paying cash all the time , there are some benefits to getting a credit card and paying it off in full every month , instead of simply paying with cash . Some of those benefits are : You get to wait 20-30 days before paying for the items . You will start to build a credit history , which in the US is helpful when you want to borrow money in the future . [ Note : <URL> Thank you @Relaxed for mentioning it . ] You do n't have to carry as much cash around with you . If you lose your wallet you can cancel your credit card and get a new number . Some credit cards allow you to earn " points " , " airline miles " , or even cash back on every purchase . Typically the value of these incentives ranges from 1-2 % of the purchase price and it is basically free money ( when compared to paying cash ) . [ Thank you @apsillers for reminding me of this . ] One pretty big downside of having a credit card depends on your personality . Some people , once they have credit , end up spending beyond their means , and end up getting into debt . Please look into whether credit cards work the same way in France before considering the above advice . As for your question regarding getting a loan vs paying cash , that will usually be personal preference , since with a loan you can buy expensive items ( such as a house or car ) much sooner than you otherwise could if you waited until you saved the money . For example , it might take 10 years or more to build up enough money to purchase a house with cash , so if you do n't want to wait that long , you 'll need to finance it .
Why should n't I just keep my money in the savings account and earn the same amount ( both accounts have the same APY in this case ) ? I will assume that you are transferring money from your savings account into a Traditional IRA and deducting the contribution from your income . While you may think that the money that is being transferred is yours already -- it is sitting in your savings account , for Pete 's sake ! -- you are deducting that amount in getting to your taxable income , and so you are effectively contributing it from current income and not paying taxes on the amount contributed . So , consider the same amount of money sitting in your savings account versus the same amount of money sitting in your Traditional IRA account . While you will earn the same amount of interest in both accounts , you will have to pay taxes each year on the interest earned in the savings account . You might choose , as most people do , to not take money out of the savings account to pay theses taxes but just pay them from ready cash/checking account/current income etc. , or these taxes might just reduce the refund that you will getting from the IRS and your State income tax authority , but in either case , you have paid taxes on the interest earned in your non-IRA savings account , and of course , long ago , you also paid taxes on the original amount in the non-IRA savings account . So , if you take any money out of the non-IRA savings account , you do n't pay any taxes on the amount withdrawn except possibly for the interest earned from January 1 till the date of withdrawal ( which you are paying from ready cash ) . On the other hand , consider the Traditional IRA . The original deposit was not taxed in the sense that you got a deduction ( reduced tax or increased refund ) when you made the contribution . The annual interest earned was not taxed each year either . So when you make a qualified withdrawal ( after age 59.5 or by meeting one of the other exceptions allowing withdrawal before age 59.5 ) , you are taking money on which you have not paid any taxes at all , and the IRS wants its cut . The money withdrawn is taxable income to you . Furthermore , the money withdrawn is not eligible for any kind of favorable treatment such as having it count as qualified dividends or as long-term capital gains even if your IRA was invested in stocks and the money in the account is all qualified dividends or long-term capital gains . If you make an unqualified withdrawal , you owe a penalty ( technically named an excise tax ) in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn . If you are investing in a Roth IRA , you will not be getting a deduction when you make the contribution , and qualified withdrawals are completely tax-free , and so the answer is completely different from the above .
I made this <URL> for analysing such question on renting vs buying . If you 're simply looking at a $ 1500/month mortgage ( for say 20 years ) vs $ 1500/month in rent then there is no break-even unless property depreciates 10 % pa , in which case either scenario leaves you with nothing after the term of the mortgage . The screenshot below shows an idealised 100 % mortgage for $ 230,000 costing $ 1503 per month with 2 % property appreciation . After 20 years the buyer owns the property while the renter has nothing . <URL> Edit further to OP providing property price A property price of $ 300,000 at say 6 % <URL> - equivalent to 5.84 % nominal annual interest compounded monthly - will cost $ 2,121.88 per month for a 20 year 100 % mortgage , ( neglecting fees and duty ) . To make this a fair comparison , say the renter also utilises $ 2,121.88 per month by paying $ 1500 rent and putting the remaining $ 621.88 into a savings account or fund at a deposit ( or return ) rate of 4 % effective annual interest . Taking into account property appreciation at 2 % per annum and rent inflation at 2 % per annum , the scenarios play out as shown below . After 20 years when the term of the mortgage is finished the buyer owns the house , now valued at $ 445,784 while the renter has $ 120,348 in savings . Lets suppose they both continue to utilise $ 2121.88 for the next 20 years . The buyer can put it all into savings while the renter has to continue paying rent . After 40 years the buyer has $ 1,436,966 in savings and appreciated property value while the renter has $ 66,136 in savings . <URL> <URL>
This sounds like an investment club . Assuming the securities being purchased can be easily valued at each point of purchase ( e.g. if they are public securities being purchased ) , then you can use a unit valuation system . See <URL> : " UVS is a time weighted performance metric " . Then calculating the rates of return for A , B , and C would be based on their respective unit holdings and purchases . You could use IRR on each set .
Yes . You got it right . If BBY has issues and drops to say , $ 20 , as the put buyer , I force you to take my 100 shares for $ 2800 , but they are worth $ 2000 , and you lost $ 800 for the sake of making $ 28 . The truth is , the commissions also wipe out the motive for trades like yours , even a $ 5 cost is $ 10 out of the $ 28 you are trying to pocket . You may ' win ' 10 of these trades in a row , then one bad one wipes you out .
Between half a year and a year should be enough to improve your interest rates drastically on car loan refinance . Make sure that your new credit card has already been reported to the agencies , and that the credit/debt ratio is lower than 30 % on your revolving ( credit card ) accounts . That also means that you should n't carry too much balance , even if the APR is 0 % .
Keeping a receipt does allow you to verify that the expected amount was charged/debited it also can help when you need to return an item . Regarding double charging , the credit card companies look for that . If the same card is used at the same vendor for the same exact amount in a short period of time the credit card company will flag the transaction . They assume either a mistake was made , or fraud is being attempted . The most likely result is that the transaction is denied . A dishonest vendor can write down the card number , expiration date and CVV number . Then after you leave make up a new transaction for any amount they want . You of course would n't have a paper receipt for this fraudulent transaction . The key is reviewing your transaction history every few days : looking for unexpected amounts , locations , or number of transactions .
Depending on how you view the loan , it could either be considered an Asset or a Liability . Since you are not charging interest , it might seem more intuitive to create an " Assets : Cash Loan " account , and transfer money to &amp; from it ( when you receive payments ) like you would with a bank account . Personally , I prefer to think of all loans as liabilities . Whether it 's a debt which you owe someone , or a balance which someone else owes you , since it 's an ' unsettled ' amount I file it under " Liabilities : Loan " . Either way , you record the initial balance as a debit from your bank , and then record payments as credits back to your primary account . The only way that income or expenses ever gets involved would be if you charged interest ( income ) or if you forgave some or all of the loan ( expense ) at some point in the future .
You 'd be moving from 33.5 K of taxable income + 16.5 K of untaxable income , to 65K of taxable income ( worst case ) . So the question is whether the net from the extra 31.5 K of taxable income is more than the 16.5 K , and since marginal tax rates in the relevant brackets are no more than 32 % according to the table you posted ( 22 % federal and 10 % provincial ) , it 's definitely a win to move jobs . More precisely , the marginal tax rate is 25 % on the first 8044 ( 41544-33500 ) and 32 % on the rest , making for total extra tax of about 9.5 K and thus net income ( beyond the 33.5 K baseline ) of 22K . Compared to the 16.5 K this leaves you 5.5 K up . If you end up at the 70K end , you 're another 3.4 K up beyond that .
end question
start question
Does the Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) tax other income at the marginal tax rate ?
Yes , this extra income would be taxed at your marginal rate because it is increasing your total income . This does not necessarily apply to all income , however . Capital gains are taxed at a different rate . Depending on the amount of extra work , you may wish to consider setting up a corporation . Corporations are taxed entirely differently . This would also give you the opportunity to write off far more of your expenses , but be aware of <URL> . Investopedia has a good article on <URL> . The issue is that the corporation must pay taxes on the revenue and then , when you take out the money either as salary or dividends , you personally will pay tax . It may leave you better off , even with the double taxation . Dividends are taxed at a lower rate than your marginal tax rate , generally . And you can write off much more inside a corporation . If considering this , talk to an accountant and discuss your expected revenue from consulting . The accountant should be able to quantify the costs and benefits .
If you built the deck yourself , you will need to retain copies of your materials receipts ( note that tools purchased can not be claimed ) . If you hired a contractor to do the work , the contractor must be registered for the GST and you must retain the invoice . All work must have been completed between January 27 , 2009 and February 1st , 2010 . The CRA will include a new schedule in your 2009 income tax package that will help you claim the tax credit . The credit is 15 % of the eligible expenses over $ 1,000 but less than $ 10,000 . For example , if you spent $ 10,000 , your credit would be ( $ 10,000 - $ 1,000 ) x 15 % or $ 1,350 . The HRTC is a non-refundable tax credit , which is used to reduce your taxes payable . It is not claimed against income . For example , if you had taxes payable for $ 12,000 for 2009 and had eligible HRTC expenses of $ 10,000 , your tax bill would be reduced by $ 1,350 to $ 10,650 . The Canada Revenue Agency has some excellent information on their website at the following URL <URL>
No , it is not true . That is one of the many " conspiracy theorists ' " claims to not pay taxes , and is <URL> ( i.e. : punishable by <URL> and criminal prosecution ) . Specifically to your question , the current Federal income tax framework was laid down in 1986 , with the <URL> . It is codified under the <URL> . It is usually referred to as the " Internal Revenue Code " , or IRC .
If you 're not a recognized non-profit organization then your income is taxable as earned income , or hobby income , depending on the circumstances . Some would say it may be classified as a " gift " , but I would argue that to be a dangerous proposition , and would advise against it .
You will see a change in your taxes when you itemize your deductions . If interest on the mortgage is your only deduction that is n't enough to be larger than the standard deduction . For 2014 the standard deduction for married filing joint is $ 12,400 . So what other deductions can you make : Property tax State income taxes Donations to charity plus many more ... Anything that can be entered on <URL> can reduce your taxes
Consider this scenario with random but not entirely unreasonable numbers : Let 's do the math for married couple A+B who just bought a $ 2M property ( a 3-bedroom house in Mountain View , CA , say ) . Not unreasonable , I know people in exactly this situation . Now for singles ' scenario : So if A and B each file as single , they 'll pay total of $ 72K taxes , but as a married couple they have to pay $ 96K - $ 24K difference ( > 30 % ) , which is that penalty you 've heard so much about . Explanation : Interest expense - is limited to $ 1M of mortgage , but per tax return , not per property . So if two people buy equal shares of a $ 2M property - they can only deduct interest on the first million if they 're married , but split both millions between them if they 're single . Tax rates - the marginal rates for married filing jointly are not exactly double as for single , much less . Thus if you file as single you get much more money into the lower brackets . AMT - Same as the brackets , the AMT exemption for married couples is not exactly double the exemption for single . So married couples who are high earners with no kids , especially if they own property or pay income taxes in States like California or New York , are much more likely to get hit by AMT . More exemption phase-out amounts for MFJ are less than double for singles , some more taxes kick in for MFJ in less than double of what they kick in for singles , etc etc. . From tax perspective , for two persons with comparable incomes ( or with both working and at least one high earner ) being married is a horrible idea . Unless you 're rich enough for estate taxes to matter , if so - then it is worth it .
Maybe just put all his correspondence back in the Post Box and mark it " Wrong address " ? Precisely . Without opening . Just tell the postman that that person does n't live there and have it returned to sender . The Revenue will figure it out . Most definitely do not accept any certified or registered mail not addressed to you personally .
The scenario you mention regarding capital gains is pretty much the core of the issue . Here 's a run-down from <URL> that explains it a bit . It 's important to focus on it being the tax rate , not the tax amount ( which I think you get , but I want to reinforce that for other readers ) . Basically , most of Buffett 's income comes from capital gains and dividends , income from investments he makes with the money he already has . Income earned by buying and selling stocks or from stock dividends is generally taxed at 15 percent , the rate for long-term capital gains and qualified dividends . Buffett also mentioned that some of the " mega-rich " are hedge fund managers " who earn billions from our daily labors but are allowed to classify our income as ' carried interest , ' thereby getting a bargain 15 percent tax rate . " We do n't know the taxes paid by Buffett 's secretary , who was mentioned by Obama but not by Buffett . Buffet 's secretary would have to make a high salary , or else typical deductions ( such as the child tax credit ) would offset taxes owed . Let 's say the secretary is a particularly well-compensated executive assistant , making adjusted income more than $ 83,600 in income . ( Yes , that sounds like a lot to us , too , but remember : We 're talking about the secretary to one of the richest people in the world . ) In that case , marginal tax rates of 28 percent would apply . Then , there would be payroll taxes of 6.25 percent on the first $ 106,800 , money that goes to Social Security , and another 1.45 percent on all income , which goes to Medicare . The secretary 's overall tax rate would be lower than 28 percent , since not all the income would be taxed at that rate , only the income above $ 83,600 . Buffett , meanwhile , would pay very little , if anything , in payroll taxes . In the New York Times op-ed , Buffett said he paid 17.4 percent in taxes . Thinking of the secretary , it gets a little complicated , given how the tax brackets work , but basically , people who make between $ 100,000 and $ 200,000 are paying around 20 percent in federal taxes , including payroll and income taxes , according to an analysis from the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center . So in this case , the secretary 's rate is higher because so much of Buffett 's income comes from investments and is taxed at the lower capital gains rate . Here 's Buffet 's <URL> for those of you that are n't familiar .
The way this works , as I understand it , is that financial advisers come in two kinds . Some are free to recommend you any financial products they think fit , but many are restricted in what they can recommend . Most advisers who work for finance companies are the second kind , and will only offer you products that their company sells . I believe they should tell you up front if they are the second kind . They should certainly tell you that if you ask . So in essence , your Scotiabank advisor is not necessarily making bad decisions for you - but they are restricted in what they will offer , and will not tell you if there is a better product for you that Scotiabank does n't sell . In most cases , ' management fees ' means something you pay to the actual managers of the fund you buy , not to the person who sells you the fund . You can compare the funds you are invested in yourself , both for performance and for the fees charged . Making frequent unnecessary changes of investment is another way that an advisor can milk you for money , but that is not necessarily restricted to bank-employed advisors . if you think that is happening to you , ask question , and change advisors if you are not happy .
Do I have to pay the stock investment income tax if I bought some stocks in 2016 , it made some profits but I did n't sell them at the end of 2016 ? You pay capital gains taxes only when you sell the stocks . When you sell the stock within a year you will pay the short term capital gains rate which is the same rate as your ordinary income . If the stock pays dividends , however , you will have to pay taxes in the year that the dividend was paid out to you . I bought some stocks in 2011 , sold them in 2012 and made some gains . Which year of do I pay the tax for the gains I made ? You would pay in 2012 , likely at the short term gain rate . I bought some stocks , sold them and made some gains , then use the money plus the gains to buy some other stocks before the end of the same year . Do I have to pay the tax for the gains I made in that year ? Yes . There is a specific exception called the " Wash Sale Rule " , but that would only apply if you lost money on the original sale and bought a substantially similar or same stock within 30 days . Do I get taxed more for the money I made from buying and selling stocks , even if the gains is only in hundreds ? More than what ? You pay taxes based on the profit you make from the investment . If you held it less than a year it is the same tax rate as your regular income . If you held it longer you pay a lower tax rate which is usually lower than your regular tax rate .
Yes pension income is taxed at your marginal rate , and you may be able to claim a $ 2,000 pension deduction . In addition pension income can be split with a spouse or common law partner by electing so on your tax return . When you begin to receive pension income from work the employers pension administrator will have you fill out a TD1 Form Federal and Provincial Form which will tell them how much tax to deduct at source . You can also elect to increase the amount of taxes deducted at source . If the taxes deducted at source are insufficient or if you have other income where source deductions have not been withheld then you may owe taxes on your tax return . If you owe over $ 3,000 in taxes when you file your return you will be requested to pay next years taxes owing in instalments . You can request the government to withhold Taxes on your Canada CPP benefits too .
The PAYE tax and NI will be deducted as usual . Send HMRC a <URL> to tell them you 're emigrating , and they will refund the tax .
As others have mentioned , it 's important that there is a fair assessment of the market value of the items being donated . Joel 's point about the government not looking kindly upon overvalued donations also applies in Canada : the CRA does n't look kindly upon <URL> such as " buy-low , donate-high arrangements . " Since nobody has offered up authoritative information for Canada yet , here 's something to look at : <URL> Excerpts : 3 ) Gifts in kind of a taxpayer include capital property , depreciable property , personal-use property ... [ ... ] 6 ) The fair market value of a gift in kind as of the date of the donation ( the date on which beneficial ownership is transferred from the donor to the donee ) must be determined before an amount can be recorded on a receipt for tax purposes . [ ... ] The person who determines the fair market value of the property must be competent and qualified to evaluate the particular property being transferred by way of a gift . Property of little or only nominal value to the donor will not qualify as a gift in kind . Used clothing of little value would be an example of a non-qualifying contribution . You will need to find a charity that would both value the books you would be donating and be willing to issue you a receipt for your charitable donation . Whatever receipt they issue should be in line with fair market value of the goods donated . Assume your donation receipt will be challenged , and keep both : An inventory of what you donated ( pictures might help ) , and Supporting documentation used in helping assess the fair market value of the goods ; the CRA might not accept a verbal " I checked eBay " . Finally , reasonable comparables might be prices for similar used goods , not a percentage of new . Though , if you ca n't find a price for a particular title in the used market , an estimate consistent with other valuations in the lot would be better than nothing , perhaps .
Food is almost never a valid expense . Reason for it is simple - if you were not conducting business you would have to eat too . Ad 1 . I do n't see why travel in that case would not be a valid expense , as the only reason for you to travel there is for business reasons . Ad 2 . Unlikely as there is a duality of purpose . So while part of it may be business , you are also getting personal benefit from the visit ( coffee/cakes etc ) so that generally is a no . Ad 3 . No , while you can claim for entertainment of employees ( to sensible extends ) , that does n't work when entertaining clients . Ad 4 . If any part of the trip is for leisure then you can not claim it as business expense , sorry ! If there is any duality of use then it 's not a business expense . And food , as always , is a no go .
The tax tables are created from the tax rates . Its not as simple as multiple taxable income by the rate for your tax bracket , due to the way tax brackets work . The rate for each tax bracket only applies for certain income ranges . For example , the first $ 8,375 are taxed at 10 % , $ 8,375 - $ 34k at 15 % , $ 34k - $ 82,400 at 25 % , etc. . So just because you are in the 25 % tax bracket does n't mean that you are paying 25 % on your entire income . If you have 82,400 in taxable income , and assuming the singe rate , your tax is 16,788 for an effective tax rate of 20 % of taxable income . Your effective tax rate is actually less than that if you base the calculation on your adjusted gross income . Your <URL> is simply your total taxes divided by your total income . The tax rate and the tax table are based on your taxable income , which is your gross income minus any deductions and credits .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
The IRS looks at your marital status on December 31st to determine at what rate you will pay taxes . We can assume that for this year you will file Married . The withholding tables which are triggered by the numbers and terms you put on the W-4 are used to get your withholding close to the eventual total amount owed . Of course the more complex your situation -- deductions for mortgage , education , high state and local income tax -- the more adjustments you need to make . On the <URL> the IRS has the following instructions : If you are single and have more than one job or are married and you and your spouse both work and the combined earnings from all jobs exceed $ 50,000 ( $ 20,000 if married ) , see the Two-Earners/Multiple Jobs Worksheet on page 2 to avoid having too little tax withheld . Two earners or multiple jobs . If you have a working spouse or more than one job , figure the total number of allowances you are entitled to claim on all jobs using worksheets from only one Form W-4 . Your withholding usually will be most accurate when all allowances are claimed on the Form W-4 for the highest paying job and zero allowances are claimed on the others . See Pub . 505 for details . Remember that the W-4 and the withholding does n't change what you pay in taxes , it only changes the timing of the payments . In general a person that has a W-4 with the status of Single will have more withheld compared to a person making the same amount but with a status of Married . You should correct this via changing the W-4 . Note that not correcting it is n't a crime , but keeping it correct makes it easier to estimate correctly .
If you were directly invested in government bonds then you would pay no tax , but ANY pass through entity ( whether a fund or even a 401K ) nullifies that tax status where the existence of the pass through entity creates its own tax event . From my understand you would simply pay the applicable capital gains tax ( short term or long term ) and would not qualify for any bond government bond related tax breaks .
Gold is classified as a collectible so the gain rates are as follows : Held less than one year . The capital gain is taxed at ordinary income tax rate , ( up to 35 % ) . See <URL> . Held more than one year . The capital gain is also taxed at ordinary income rate , but with a cap of 28 % . In other words , if your marginal tax rate is 15 % , the gain is taxed at 15 % , not 28 % . If you 're rich and your marginal tax rate is 35 % , then you tax the gain at 28 % . See <URL> . So you 'd report a gain of $ 100 or $ 1,000 , depending on which coin you sold .
You are missing something very significant . The money in a traditional IRA ( specifically , a deductible traditional IRA ; there is not really any reason to keep a nondeductible traditional IRA anymore ) is pre-tax . That means when you pay tax on it when you take it out , you are paying tax on it for the first time . If you take ordinary money to invest it in stocks , and then pay capital gains tax on it when you take it out , that is post-tax money to begin with -- meaning that you have already paid ( income ) tax on it once . Then you have to pay tax again on the time-value growth of that money ( i.e. that growth is earned from money that is already taxed ) . That means you are effectively paying tax twice on part of that money . If that does n't make sense to you , and you think that interest , capital gains , etc. is the first time you 're paying tax on the money because it 's growth , then you have a very simplistic view of money . There 's something called time value of money , which means that a certain amount of money is equivalent to a greater amount of money in the future . If you invest $ 100 now and end up with $ 150 in the future , that $ 150 in the future is effectively the same money as the $ 100 now . Let 's consider a few examples . Let 's say you have $ 1000 of pre-tax income you want to invest and withdraw a certain period of time later in retirement . Let 's say you have an investment that grows 100 % over this period of time . And let 's say that your tax rate now and in the future is 25 % ( and for simplicity , assume that all income is taxed at that rate instead of the tax bracket system ) . And capital gains tax is 15 % . Put it in a Traditional IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 grows to $ 2000 , you pay 25 % taxes , end up with $ 1500 Take it in your paycheck , and then invest it in the stock , and withdraw it at the end : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax to $ 750 , the investment grows to $ 1500 , but then you pay capital gains tax of 15 % x $ 750 = $ 112.50 . You end up with $ 1387.50 Put it in a Roth IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax on it to $ 750 ; it then grows to $ 1500 ; you pay no taxes on that You see a few things : Traditional IRA and Roth IRA are equivalent if the tax rates are the same . This is because , in both cases , you pay tax one time on the money ( the only difference between paying tax now and later is the tax rate ) . It does n't matter that you 're paying tax only on the principal for the Roth and on the principal plus earnings for Traditional , because the principal now is equivalent to the principal plus earnings in the future . And you also see that investing money outside fares worse than both of them . That is because you are paying tax on the money once plus some more . When you compare it against the Roth IRA , the disadvantage is obvious -- in both cases you pay income tax on the principal , but for Roth IRA you pay nothing on the earnings , whereas for the outside stock , you pay some tax on the earnings . What may be less obvious is it is equally disadvantageous compared to a Traditional IRA ; Traditional and Roth IRA are equivalent in this comparison . 401 ( k ) s and IRAs have a fundamental tax benefit compared to normal money investment , because they allow money to be taxed only one time . No matter how low the capital gains tax rate it , it is still worse because it is a tax on time-value growth from money that is already taxed .
end question
start question
Will having a credit freeze still allow a hard inquiry on my credit report ?
No , that 's the whole point of the freeze . Your credit is locked and will not be pulled . They may not deny you , it 's up to them . But they will not be able to see your credit report .
I ca n't vouch for the UK , but in the US most basic cards have either no fee or a fairly small yearly fee ( about US$ 15 , if you do n't have a problematic credit record ) . Shop around .
From Equifax FAQ : <URL> ? - " Good information , like your on-time payment of credit card bills or your mortgage , can stay on your credit history forever . Having more good information helps strengthen your credit history and increase your credit score . " Removing old items for the sake of ' cleaning up ' your report may not be possible , and is probably unnecessary . ' Old ' items , closed accounts that were paid off , are not a negative , although I understand the desire to see them fall off .
I do n't think so . I found <URL> : information for those organizations ( " data providers " ) that report their accounts receivable data to TransUnion . It explains the steps needed for becoming a data provider . It 's a <URL> , but the most obvious deal-breaker in your case is that a data provider has to have at least 100 accounts . Your family member evidently has only 1 . I could n't find similar information for the other two major US credit reporting agencies ( Experian and Equifax ) but I am inclined to think it is probably similar .
Your credit utilization is calculated on your closing date when your statement is posted , and only then does it affect your credit score . Also , utilization affects your score in <URL> , which means that if you have high credit utilization one month , e.g. when you buy tickets home , but low credit utilization the next month , your credit score will reflect the most recent utilization . You should n't necessarily stress about the months where you have high utilization ; just keep your utilization lower the next month . If you still want to keep your utilization low every month , <URL> , if you can afford it . Be sure to leave some balance on your card on your closing date , however , because 0 % utilization is n't good for your score either . As long as you leave a small balance on the card when your statement is posted , your credit score will reflect a low utilization . If you can also quickly acquire credit limit increases , though , that 's another good way to lower your utilization , as long as it does n't lead you to spend too much .
The credit file is a history of your use of credit . It has the good and the bad info that covers a period of years . There is a process of getting incorrect info either changed , or removed . But there is no procedure for getting correct information removed . Lenders want to know your history so they determine if you generally pay your debts . They then look at your income and other expenses to see if you have the cash flow or the reserves to pay back the loan . The decision to lend is based on those two analyses . Removing bad history would provide a false impression to the lender . Now when you apply for credit the lender can decide to loan the money even if you do n't have perfect credit . They may decide the risk is still good , or they could raise the rate , or they could lower the maximum they will lend . Some lenders will allow you to submit to them a written explanation of any ding on the report . They do this so they can document their decision to overlook a few small issues .
Could the individual [ directly ] use the credit cards for the down-payment ? No , not directly . Indirectly , either via Cash Advance or " Balance Transfer " to a bank account with a promotional rate could work , however you may have to show the money sitting in a bank account and ready to go before the loan will be approved , which means the money you took out on the credit cards will show up when they pull your credit ( unless you somehow timed it perfectly , and even if you did that you 'd be breaking the law by lying on the disclosure statement about your current debts . ) If he could , are there any negative consequences from doing so ( other than probable high monthly payments on the cards ) ? Definitely . Let 's assume we 're talking about the indirect method of cash advance or balance transfer , since that is actually possible . There are 3 things to compare : You have saved up enough money for a ( hopefully hefty ) down payment without taking out any additional loans . This is obviously ideal and should always be the goal . You do not have enough money for a down payment and simply do n't buy a house right now . You do not have enough money for a down payment , so you take out other loans so that you can buy a house right now . The main negative consequence of doing this is simply that you ca n't afford the house right now , but for some reason you are buying it anyway . I 'm not one to judge ; there are contrived reasons where this could be justified ( your trust fund comes due soon , your big inheritance is still locked up in probate , your guaranteed bonus is coming soon , etc ) , but in general , if you think you can pay off the CC debt in the near future , then you 're most likely better off waiting until you have the money cash in hand . Final thought : Most of the time the rate you pay on a non-mortgage loan will be higher than that of the mortgage , and furthermore mortgage interest is oftentimes tax deductible , so it would rarely ever make sense to shift would-be mortgage debt into another type of loan , down payment or otherwise .
When you have a credit freeze , or security freeze , in place with the credit bureaus , this restricts access to your credit report . However , it does not completely prevent all access . Some situations where your credit information is still available , even with a security freeze in place are : Your existing creditors ( and debt collectors acting on their behalf ) still have access to your report . Government agencies can get the report if they have a court order , subpoena , or search warrant . Limited information is still available to potential creditors for " pre-screened " offers . When a company obtains information about you this way ( which is normally done in large groups of people ) , it appears as an inquiry on your credit report . This is most likely what has happened to you . The third one is confusing . You would think that a security freeze would prevent this , but no . In order to prevent pre-screened offer companies from obtaining any information about you , you need to opt-out separately , which you can do online at <URL> * . To answer the second part of your question , I 'm not aware of a way to erase your credit report completely . When you take out a loan , one of the things you agree to is the creditor 's right to add to your credit report . However , closed accounts drop off your credit report after 10 years , so if you wait long enough you 'll have an empty report . More information from the FTC : <URL> <URL> * Note : When you opt out of the prescreen offers online , the opting out is only valid for 5 years ( for your convenience , of course ) . If you want to make it permanent , opt out online , then fill out a " Permanent Opt-Out Election " form , and mail it in .
I 'm no expert , but my understanding is you should NOT close these cards . They are credit cards even though they 've been issued by a store , and will affect your credit score . Some things that the credit score likes are older credit lines that have been around for awhile small or no balances in relation to your total credit line Your best bet is just to cut them up and forget about them . If you want to improve your score , NEVER miss a payment on your mortgage , your car , or your credit cards , and dispute any errors on your credit report . Do NOT request too many new credit cards ( better to ask for a credit line raise on your old cards ) . More reading here : <URL>
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
To the best of my knowledge , your immigration status is unknown to the credit reporting agencies , so changing from visa to green card or from green card to citizenship will have no effect whatsoever on your credit score .
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
It appears that there is some kind of a state-sponsored program in IL , not sure about the details . It is not a tax credit , though . Read about it at the <URL> . First-time homebuyers in Boone , Cook , DeKalb , Fulton , Kane , Marion , McHenry , St. Clair , Will or Winnebago counties can get $ 7,500 in down payment assistance with a competitive interest rate for a secure , 30-year fixed rate mortgage . 1STHomeIllinois is tailored for first-time homebuyers , Veterans , or anyone who has n't owned a home in the last three years living in one of the above 10 counties . The Federal tax credit was indeed only for 2008-2010 .
The reason the loan amount is showing is because it is a default - the fact that you live in a non-recourse state does n't change the fact that a loan obligation that had your name on it was defaulted upon . I do n't think there is much you can do now given that your name was still on the mortgages .
Yes , the borrower is responsible for paying back the full amount of the loan . Foreclosure gives the bank possession of the property , which they can ( and do ) sell . Any shortfall is still the borrower 's responsibility . But , no , the bank ca n't sell the property for a dollar ; they have to make a reasonable effort . Usually the sale is done through a sheriff 's sale , that is , a more or less carefully supervised auction . Bankruptcy will wipe out the shortfall , and most other debts , but the downside is that most of the rest of your assets will also be sold to help pay off what you owe . Details of what you can keep vary from state to state . If you want to go this route , hire a lawyer .
The formulas used by the three major credit bureaus ( Experian , TransUnion , Equifax ) are proprietary trade secrets . They 're each slightly different , and are fed differing data , so your " score " is likely to deviate from bureau to bureau . A Google search for " Credit Score Estimator " returns several pages of links to FICO estimation web apps . Be careful ; you 're feeding personal information about your credit history into these sites in many cases . I just ran through <URL> , which does not ask for any identifying information , and estimated my score to within 40 points , and is accurate as of the last time I checked my actual scores .
In order to be eligible for credits you must file a tax return . You should file the return even if no tax is due , and even if you otherwise are not required to file . That 's the only way to secure credits . Since you did n't file prior year tax returns - there are no prior year credit carry-overs , because there are no prior year credits .
The bank will make this even more confusing because they use the terms from their own perspective . From the bank 's perspective ( printed on your statements ) credit : Money into your account ( increases the bank 's liabilities ) debit : Money out of your account ( decrease bank liabilities ) From your perspective : It depends on the nature of the transfer of money , but here are the most common for a personal account . Income into your account : Credit Expenses out of your account : Debit Payment on a loan made for an asset ( house/car ) : Credit for the loan account , debit for the equity account for the car/house/etc . Yes , it 's complicated . Neither credits nor debits are always a + or - . That 's why I agree with the advice of the others here that double-entry accounting is overkill for your personal finances . Note : I simplified the above examples for the purpose of clarity . Technically every transaction in double entry accounting includes both a credit and a debit ( hence the " double " in the name ) . In fact , sometimes a transaction involves more than one credit or debit , but always at least one of each . Also , this is for EACH party . So any transaction between you and your bank involves at least FOUR debits and/or credits when all involved are considered .
You can think of it like this : the credit report is the raw data , and the FICO score is the quick-and-dirty number that sums up for creditors how risky you are . Your FICO score determines whether or not you 're given a credit card or a loan , as well as what interest rate you 'll pay , and can even influence a decision about whether someone will rent you an apartment or give you a cell phone . A FICO score is calculated based on information from your credit report , specifically 1 ) your record of paying your bills on time , 2 ) the ratio of how much debt you have compared to the total of all your credit limits ( i.e. how much of your credit you 're currently using ) , 3 ) the length of your credit history , 4 ) how much you 've been applying for new credit recently , and 5 ) your mix of credit cards and loans . ( I used Suze Orman 's <URL> to refresh my memory on this list . ) A credit report lists every creditor you currently or recently have had a relationship with . ( I think old creditors drop off 7 years after the account is closed . ) For each credit card or loan , it lists the date you opened the account , your current balance , the starting balance or credit limit , and month-by-month whether your payment was on time , or late . There are three bureaus that collect this information , Equifax , Experian , and TransUnion . You can obtain a free copy of each of your three credit reports once a year through <URL> . Each of the bureaus will also offer to allow you to see your FICO score for an extra fee ( $ 7.95 with my favorite , Equifax ) . I think it 's well worth it to check it every 6 months or so . One last note about FICO scores ... the " FICO " part is important . The FICO score is the real one . I 've seen lots of offers from credit cards , etc , offering a " free credit score . " If they 're not saying it 's a FICO credit score , it 's not , and it 's pretty useless . Lots of great information here : <URL> . Enjoy !
end question
start question
Can I write off investment losses into future years ?
According to <URL> capital losses must first be used to offset any capital gains . Any excess losses can be deducted against ordinary income up to $ 3,000 ( $ 1,500 if married filing separately ) on line 13 of Form 1040 . You can then carry forward your net capital loss to future tax years . Obviously , at $ 3000 pa it will take more than a lifetime to get relief on a $ 1,000,000 capital loss .
All bonds carry a risk of default , which means that it 's possible that you can lose your principal investment in addition to potentially not getting the interest payments that you expect . Bonds ( in the US anyway ) are graded , so you can manage this risk somewhat by taking higher quality bonds , i.e. in companies or governments that are considered more creditworthy . Regular bank savings ( again specific to the US ) are insured by FDIC , so even if your bank goes bust , the US Government is backing them up to some limit . That makes such accounts less risky . There 's generally no insurance on a bond , even if it is issued by a government entity . If you do your homework on the bond rating system and choose bonds in a rating band where you 're comfortable , this could be a good option for you . You 'll find , however , that the bond market also " knows " that the interest rates are generally low , so be ware that higher interest issues are usually coming from less creditworthy ( and therefore more risky ) issuers . EDIT Here 's some additional information based on the follow-up question in the comment . When you buy a bond you are actually making a loan to the issuer . They will pay you interest over the lifetime of the bond and then return your principal at the end of the term . ( Verify this payment schedule - This is typical , but you should be sure that whatever you 're buying works like this . ) This is not an investment in the value of the issuer itself like you would be making if you bought stock . With stock you are taking an ownership share in the company . This might entitle you to dividends if the company pays them , but otherwise your investment value on a stock will be tied to the performance of the company . With the bond , the company might be in decline but the bond still a good investment so long as the company does n't decline so much that they can not pay their debts . Also , bonds can be issued by governments , but governments do not sell stock . ( An " ownership share of the government " would not make sense . ) This may be the so-called sovereign debt if issued by a sovereign government or it may be local ( we call it municipal here in the US ) debt issued by a subordinate level of government . Bonds are a little bit like stock in the sense that there 's a secondary market for them . That means that if you get partway through the length of the bond and do n't want to hold it , you can sell the bond to someone else . Of course , it will be harder to sell a bond later if the company becomes insolvent or if the interest rates go up between when you buy and when you sell . Depending on these market factors , you might end up with a capital gain or capital loss ( meaning you get more or less than the principal that you put into the bond ) at the time of a sale .
Index funds are well-known to give the best long-term investment . Not exactly . Indexes give the best long term performance when compared to actively managing investments directly in the underlying stocks . That is , if you compare an S&amp;P 500 index to trying to pick stocks that are part of it , you 're more likely to succeed with blindly following the index than trying to actively beat it . That said , no-one promises that investing in S&amp;P 500 is better than investing in DJIA , for example . These are two different indexes tracking different stocks and areas . So when advisers say " diversify " they do n't mean it that you should diversify between different stocks that build up the S&amp;P 500 index . They mean that you should diversify your investments in different areas . Some in S&amp;P 500 , some in DJIA , some in international indexes , some in bond indexes , etc. . Still , investing in various indexes will likely yield better results than actively managing the investments trying to beat those indexes , but you should not invest in only one , and that is the meaning of diversification . In the comments you asked " why diversify at all ? " , and that is entirely a different question from your original " what diversification is ? " . You diversify to reduce the risk of loss from one side , and widen the net for gains from another . The thing is that any single investment can eventually fail , regardless of how it performed before . You can see that the S&amp;P 500 index lost 50 % of its value twice within ten years , whereas before it was doubling itself every several years . Many people who were only invested in that index ( or what 's underlying to it ) lost a lot of money . But consider you 've diversified , and in the last 20 years you 've invested in a blend of indexes that include the S&amp;P 500 , but also other investments like S&amp;P BSE SENSEX mentioned by Victor below . You would reduce your risk of loss on the American market by increasing your gains on the Indian market . Add to the mix soaring Chinese Real Estate market during the time of the collapse of the US real-estate , gains on the dollar losing its value by investing in other currencies ( Canadian dollar , for example ) , etc. . There are many risks , and by diversifying you mitigate them , and also have a chance to create other potential gains . Now , another question is why invest in indexes . <URL> on this site . <URL> , and rarely will individual stock picking beat the market . Of course , after the fact its easy to be smart and pick the winning stocks . But the problem is to be able to predict those charts ahead of time .
I doubt that it would withstand examination . I would also mention that if the nature of your work does not change after a month , the fact that you 're paid as contractor does n't make you any less employee during that period . What you can do is report ( some of ) these expenses as unreimbursed employee expenses , and they will be deductible based on the AGI limitation , as misc . deductions on your schedule A.
Yes , you can certainly keep it in a savings account until you spend it . You 'll get much less interest than you will be paying on the loan , but it will be better than nothing . However , you may want to ask if you can use the loan flexibly instead - i.e. only " draw down " the money you need when you need it , and not start paying interest until that happens . That would save you a lot more money . Note that the ISA limit is currently # 5,760 and the limit is on total deposits so you wo n't be able to reuse the amount later in the tax year . Since that ends on April 5th that probably wo n't be an issue for you .
The short answer is no you can only deduct actual expenses . The long answer is that it would be impossible for the IRS to determine the value of your time and it would open the tax system to an enormous amount of fraud ( think of being able to make up time spent or writing off time spent volunteering at a soup kitchen or any other charity ) . Now you can write off expenses you have involved in doing the work , equipment and supplies used to do the work along with any wages you paid an employee or contractor to do said work .
Short answer : Yes , profits and losses from stocks , options , and futures can be combined with each other for tax purposes . But different tax forms will need to be filled out . Long answer : For stocks , you would report your profits/losses on <URL> . This is mentioned in the <URL> : Line 1 Enter all sales and exchanges of capital assets , including stocks For options ( those that are not Section 1256 contracts ) , you would report your profits/losses on Form 8949 . This is mentioned in the <URL> : Gain or Loss From Options Report on Form 8949 gain or loss from the closing or expiration of an option that is not a section 1256 contract but is a capital asset in your hands For futures ( and options that are Section 1256 contracts ) , you would report your profits/losses on <URL> ( Gains and Losses From Section 1256 Contracts and Straddles ) . According to that form , Section 1256 contracts include futures contracts and certain types of options : A section 1256 contract is any : • Regulated futures contract , • Foreign currency contract , • Nonequity option , • Dealer equity option , or • Dealer securities futures contract . So for stocks , options , and futures transactions , you will be filling out Forms 8949 and 6781 . Then you will put the totals from those forms onto <URL> . As you can see from Schedule D , short-term profits/losses from Form 8949 are reported on lines 1b , 2 , and 3 , and profits/losses from Form 6781 are reported on line 4 . On line 7 , those totals are combined . If you have long-term profits/losses from Form 8949 , they are reported on lines 8b , 9 , and 10 , and added up in line 15 . Then lines 7 and 15 are combined in line 16 , which is used to fill out Form 1040 . So yes , profits/losses ( both short-term and long-term ) from stocks , options , and futures can be combined with each other .
It is typically very easy to roll a 401 ( k ) into an IRA . Companies that provide IRA 's are very experienced with it , and I would expect that they will take your calls from overseas . You will likely be able to do it over the internet without using a phone at all . Just open an IRA with any brokerage company ( Scottrade , Vanguard , Fidelity , Schwab , Ameritrade , etc. ) and follow instructions to roll your 401 ( k ) into it . Most likely they will need your signature , but usually a scan of a form you have filled out will do . Be sure to have information on your 401 ( k ) provider , including your account number there , on hand . These companies are all very reputable and this is not a difficult transaction . There 's really no downside to rolling into an IRA . 401 ( k ) plans usually have more limited options and/or worse fee structures and are frequently harder to work with , as you have observed .
It looks like the HST will be in effect in Ontario on July 1st , 2010 . As to whether it will replace GST with HST for all services , it looks like some sectors may get special treatment : <URL> . But it does n't look final yet . However , I would suggest that most service-based businesses in Ontario need to prepare to start charging 13 % HST instead of 5 % GST . It will be the law . On the " goods " side of the new harmonized tax , it looks like certain goods will still be exempt from the provincial portion . Here 's a quote from the <URL> : " Books , diapers , children 's clothing and footwear , children 's car seats and car booster seats , and feminine hygiene products would be exempt from the provincial portion of the single sales tax . " Here 's some additional information on the introduction of the HST , from the province : <URL> . And finally , another interesting article from the Ottawa Business Journal : <URL> UPDATE : I just received an insert from Canada Revenue Agency included with my quarterly GST statement . Titled " Harmonization of the Sales Tax in Ontario and British Columbia " , it contains a section titled " What this means for you " ( as in , you the business owner ) . Here 's an excerpt : [ ... ] All Ontario and B.C. registrants would need to update their accounting and point-of-sale systems to accomodate the change in rate and new point-of-sale rebates for the implementation date of July 1 , 2010 . The harmonization of the sales tax in Ontario and B.C. may affect the filing requirements of registrants outside of these two provinces . Registrants will report their HST according to their current GST filing frequency . As a result of the harmonization , there will be changes to the rebates for housing and public service bodies . More information will be released as it becomes available . Visit the CRA web site often , at <URL> , for the most up-to-date information on the harmonization of the sales tax and how it may affect you . [ ... ] Last , I found some very detailed information on the HST here : <URL> . Chances are anything you want to know is in there .
In general , it works like this . For ease of explanation , assume that the billing cycle is aligned on month boundaries , and have 10 days from the time you get the bill to when you have to pay . These numbers will vary by credit card , but the concept is the same . Between Jan. 1 and Jan 31 , you charge $ 1000 On Jan 31 , the January billing cycle ends You charge an additional $ 500 on Feb 5 , and nothing more for the rest of the month On Feb. 10 , you receive a bill for January , for $ 1000 , due on Feb. 20 On Feb. 20 , you pay your bill of $ 1000 . On Feb. 28 , the February billing cycle ends On March 10 , you receive a bill for $ 500 , due on March 20 . There would be no interest charged in this scenario . As long as you pay the total amount of each bill by the due date , there is no interest charge . Note that if you continuously charge on your card , it may never have a zero balance , even though you are paying your bill on time .
They will include the rental income into the calculation . They do n't give you a 100 % credit for the income because they have to factor that you might have a gap between tenants . Years ago they only credited me with 66 % of the expected monthly income . Example : $ 600 Principal , Interest , Taxes , Insurance , Condo Fee $ 400 Rent credit ( 2/3 of the $ 600 in rent I charged the tenant ) Resulting in an expected loss of $ 200 a month . This expense was then supposed to come from the 10 % of my income that was allocated for monthly non-principal mortgage loans , e.g student loan , auto loan , credit card debt ...
Everyone has made some good points that I was going to mention but to put it in terms that might make it easier to decide . As stated by others , paying off debt and being free is always the goal and desirable . However , you must also consider the " efficiency " of what you do as well . For example , there are two common types of student loans ( there are others but let 's focus on these ) and that is subsidized and unsubsidized . The main difference ? Subsidized loans do n't earn interest on your balance while you are in school , it only happens when you graduate and come out of repayment grace period . Unsubsidized loans begin accumulating interest the moment they are disbursed , but you are not required to make payments on them until you graduate . All student loans are deferred until you graduate and exhaust your grace period or other means of deferring your payment , say for example a postponement or forbearance . However , it is often recommended that on UNSUBSIDIZED loans , you pay down your principle while still in school to avoid that massive interest amount that will get added to it when you are officially in repayment . On the other hand , it is often ( if not always ) recommended that you hold off on paying SUBSIDIZED loans until you are done and go into repayment , as for all intents and purposes its not costing you anything extra to wait . Family and parent loans are considered and treated more like personal loans , so treat them as such . Hope that helps . Also , do n't forget to take advantage of the income based repayment options , as they will make the payments manageable enough to avoid making them a burden while you are trying to get a job and go post education . Further reading : <URL> <URL>
Let 's assume you have total year income I . The inflation rate is R and the growth rate is E every year . The contributed rate deducting 1.8 % will be C = 0.982 . So , for your account you 'll have every year Let 's assume you have annual income in 1000 , then for years So , you 'll deposit 40 000 and got at the end 129 023.60 . But be careful , economic calculation for so long period could be very incaccurate because of the variation of the inflation rate , growth rate and various risks . The spreadsheet could be very useful . More accurate formula which assume that annual deposit grows only the half of the year . Thus , the result for 40 years will be 124 576.91 .
It has n't changed , to the best of my knowledge . You can use the same form for each of the years . Make sure to write the correct year on line 1 . Be very careful at what you 're doing though . You can get hit with a lot of fines and penalties for late filing . Get a qualified tax professional ( EA/CPA/Attorney ) to help you with this , and get you into <URL> , if necessary .
From what I 've read : In Canada , for tax purposes , a family unit ( i.e. you , your spouse , and your dependent children ) can only claim one property as principal residence , for the purpose of claiming the principal residence capital gains exemption . So , you need to pick which property you 'll be claiming as your principal residence for tax purposes , as only one home can be designated principal residence for any given year . Therefore , I imagine that if you already have a principal residence , you would not be able to shelter another property from capital gains taxes simply by putting it in the name of your dependent minor -- ( and is that even possible ? ) I would guess that gains on the sale of that additional property would be subject to capital gains tax . Finally , if you 're talking about having your dependent minor children owning real-estate , I agree with montyloree that you ought to check with a professional -- it sounds potentially complicated .
For this scheme to work , you would require an investment with no chance of a loss . Money market accounts and short-term t-bills are about your only options . The other thing is that you will need to be very careful to never miss the payment date . One month 's late charges will probably wipe out a few months ' profit . The only other caveat , which I 'm sure you 've considered , is that having your credit maxed out will hurt your credit score .
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
According to <URL> capital losses must first be used to offset any capital gains . Any excess losses can be deducted against ordinary income up to $ 3,000 ( $ 1,500 if married filing separately ) on line 13 of Form 1040 . You can then carry forward your net capital loss to future tax years . Obviously , at $ 3000 pa it will take more than a lifetime to get relief on a $ 1,000,000 capital loss .
Your contributions must come from " compensation " . Quoting <URL> on IRAs , " Generally , compensation is what you earn from working . " So it is unlikely that your stock sale proceeds , if they 're your sole source of income , can be used to fund your IRA . If you do have W-2 income , or self employment income , you can use the proceeds of a stock sale to fund an IRA . The IRS does n't care where the exact dollars that go into the IRA come from , only that you earned ( from working ) at least as much as you contributed .
No , the situation is not different , the roll-over rules are the same . It wo n't be taxable ( as opposed to traditional to Roth roll-over ) , but other than that it 's the same . Whether the 401k allows rolling over or not while you 're still employed - you have to check with the plan administrator ( ask your payroll/HR for details ) . Usually , the deferred compensation can not be rolled over out of the 401k while you 're still employed .
end question
start question
How can I come up with a good personal ( daily ) budget ?
A Budget is different for every person . There are families making $ 40K/yr who will budget to spend it all . But a family making $ 100K of course will have a different set of spending limits for most items . My own approach is to start by tracking every cent . Keep a notebook for a time , 3 months minimum . Note , for homeowners , a full year is what it takes to capture the seasonal expenses . This approach with help you see where the money is going , and adjust accordingly . The typical goal is to spend less than you make , saving X % for retirement , etc. . The most important aspect is to analyze how much money is getting spent on wasteful items . The $ 5 coffee , the $ 10 lunch , the $ 5 - $ 7 magazines , etc. . One can decide the $ 5 coffee is a social event done with a friend , and that 's fine , so long as it 's a mindful decision . I 've watched the person in front of me at the supermarket put 4 magazines down on the counter . If she has $ 20 to burn , that 's her choice . See <URL> for other responses .
It 's not that uncommon but it does n't usually come from standard purchases . <URL> explains : Definition of ' Fractional Share ' A share of equity that is less than one full share . Fractional shares usually come about from stock splits , dividend reinvestment plans ( DRIPs ) and similar corporate actions . Normally , fractional shares can not be acquired from the market . However , there is at least <URL> as offering fractional shares . Fractional investing makes more sense , since an investor 's perspective is to invest a certain number of dollars into equity , not to buy a certain number of shares that closely mirror the dollar commitment .
There are a lot of things you can do to get a better tenant . This answer relates specifically for Sydney Australia . Regarding the Application Form : Name &amp; contact details Employment details including length of work , name &amp; contact details of HR manager Current and previous addresses and rents paid , and lengths of time at these addresses Landlord/Real estate details for each place listed on form whether they smoke any pets ( indoor or outdoor ) Emergency contact detail ( in case of emergency ) Get them to sign the bottom of the form below a statement which authorises you to ask questions about them ( this can be used if you need to talk to their real estate agent or their employer about them - sometimes they will not talk to you unless you have the applicant 's consent ) . Regarding Information for the applicant to provide you : Rental history - at least 6 months Rental Ledger from real estate agent or copy of their bank statement if they rent privately and pay rent by direct debit ( I usually do not accept rental receipts from a private landlord as anyone can buy a a receipt book and fill it out ) . Last 3 pay slips as a minimum , or proof of regular income if they are self employed . 100 point ID check If renting through a private landlord - copy of water rates or council rates to confirm details of landlord ( they could just pretend a friend of theirs is the landlord ) . copy of any welfare payments they might receive . any references ( mainly from previous real estate agents or landlords ) . Note this is a much lower priority than their rental history . Regarding Selection Criteria : The 3 top priorities are : Rental history - look for someone always paying on time ( this is my number one criteria ) - someone who has missed payments or paid late in the past is more likely to do it in the future . Cleanliness of the tenant - this can be quite hard to check since they have not lived in your place yet , so what I do is tell them that if we short list them then we go to their current home to see how they live and how clean they are . They do n't have to accept , but if they do n't then they may be hiding something . We find most good tenants have no problems letting us in . We have usually checked everything else by this stage so if we are happy we usually sign the lease whilst at their place . Current employment , stability of employment and income level . Other things you can check : Always confirm with the real estate or landlord regarding the rental history they have given you . We have had someone in the past who had forged their rental ledger , we were about to go with them , but a last check with their real estate agent confirmed that the ledger they gave us was not provided by the agent . They faxed us the correct ledger which was very different . This one check saved us a potential big problem . We usually also screen people when they ring up to see if they have the required information . If they do n't then we do not accept an application from them and save our time having to show bad tenants the property . Instead of having 20 to 30 people during a showing we might have 2 or 3 . This gives us time to talk with each applicant and get to know them a bit . You can learn a lot about a person just by talking to them . But you always do your checks to confirm everything . Also , be wary of people with no rental history ; we usually do not accept them , including home owners who are selling their home . If you 're asking , surly if they are home owners they should take care of your property . Not always the case . If someone has never rented before they may be renting for the short term before they buy again . If they are in a house they think is temporary , do you think they will treat it the same as a house they treat as their own ? Usually not . There are exceptions , but do you want to take the risk . That is why we have the policy of not accepting an application if they have no rental history - again this is the number one priority - a good rental history , as in this case history will usually repeat itself . It is your asset and you need to do everything in your power to protect it . A good tenant is the difference between a great asset that can provide for you now into your future and a head-ache you want to get rid of . Also , one thing I forgot to include is that we allow outdoor pets ( dogs and cats ) only , and if they do have pets there is usually an additional $ 10 per week added onto the rent ( we include this in our advertising ) . Small fish in a fish tank is an exception . We charge the extra $ 10 per week in rent because the pets can add to the wear and tear on the property .
You would simply plan for misc . expenses in your budget , and allocate a small amount to this every time you do your budget , eventually building up a pool of money that you can then use whenever you have to make a purchase such as that .
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
If I had a business and was able to claim a feature , I would . It 's simple marketing . If in fact , opting out helped your score , the site would promote that feature . Soft pulls for prescreened offers are not counted . No more than my constant peek at my score through Credit Karma . Opt out , if you wish . The benefit of course is less mail , which saves trees . Less risk of identity theft , someone can take the application and try to forge from there . Less risk of an infected paper cut opening this mail ( do n't ask . ) I am a compulsive mail shredder , so I peek and these and shred . A year ago I received an offer of $ 30,000 zero interest , max transfer fee $ 50 . I sent the entire sum to my 5 % mortgage . Now I refinanced and paying that back . It saved me $ 1500 over the year . Too much trouble for some , but how long does it take to make $ 1500 ? For 40 % of this country 's families , that 's a week 's pay . The monthly extra bill did n't bother me . This last paragraph is an anecdote , not so much addressing question . I did that first .
The VDE fund is an energy fund so this is a function of recent price changes in oil ( and gas , coal , &amp; c ) . <URL> Lets say last year when oil was $ 100 per barrel a bunch of companies saw a good return and put $ 100 million into a bunch of leases , boreholes , pumps , &amp; c to return $ 10 million per year , and the market says yeah , they 're all together worth 100M . Now oil is less , maybe $ 40 per the link . These exploration companies do n't have a lot of labor or variable costs ; they are operationally profitable , may have " use it or lose it " leases or minimum pumping requirements for contract or engineering reasons . Lets say the cash flow is 7M so the market values them at 70M . They still have about 100M book value so here we are at .7 and I believe the scenario in the question . Nobody would invest in new capacity at this oil price . The well equipment could be repurposed but not the borehole or lease , so the best use is to continue pumping and value it on cash flow . If an individual well runs negative long enough and goes bust , either a different pumper will pay the minimum price that gives profitable cash flow , or that borehole that cost millions to dig is shut off and rendered valueless . The CNBC article says some explorers are playing games with debt to maintain yield , so there is that too . In the ETF , your bet is that the market is wrong and oil will go up , increasing future cash flows ( or you like the current yield , taking on the risk that some of these oil explorers could go bust ) .
Are you working for a company that offers a Dependent Care Account ? You may be able to withhold up to $ 5000/yr pre tax for care for you child . If you cover more than half her expenses , she is your dependent . You ca n't " double dip . " If she is your dependent , she can not be the care provider for purposes of the DCAS , see <URL> top of p7 " Payments to Relatives or Dependents . " How do you think a business would change your situation ? The DCA is a small tax break , if you have no business now , this break is n't something that should drive this .
You need to contact the lender . Your copy of the title should show that your lender has a lien on the car . The potential buyer will want to be able to walk away with good title without risking their money . It will not be as simple as signing the back of the title . The lender does n't drop their lien until they get their money . When trying to sell a car with a lien to a private buyer , you may have to both go to the lender to complete the transaction . Or the buyer might want to send the money directly to the lender , or may insist on an escrow service . The fact you do n't own the car may scare most individuals from the process . You will have to do whatever makes them comfortable . A dealer will not be concerned about this type of transaction , but the fact that most individuals are , may give the dealer enough competitive advantage to lower their offer to you . Steps : determine exactly how much you owe . Price an escrow service . run adds , but mention that the car has a lien . Negotiate Keep in mind that after only 7 months many car loans are upside down .
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
A Budget is different for every person . There are families making $ 40K/yr who will budget to spend it all . But a family making $ 100K of course will have a different set of spending limits for most items . My own approach is to start by tracking every cent . Keep a notebook for a time , 3 months minimum . Note , for homeowners , a full year is what it takes to capture the seasonal expenses . This approach with help you see where the money is going , and adjust accordingly . The typical goal is to spend less than you make , saving X % for retirement , etc. . The most important aspect is to analyze how much money is getting spent on wasteful items . The $ 5 coffee , the $ 10 lunch , the $ 5 - $ 7 magazines , etc. . One can decide the $ 5 coffee is a social event done with a friend , and that 's fine , so long as it 's a mindful decision . I 've watched the person in front of me at the supermarket put 4 magazines down on the counter . If she has $ 20 to burn , that 's her choice . See <URL> for other responses .
<URL> says you have to use fair market value . You can not simply use a depreciated value . You should attempt to determine what people normally pay for comparable items , and be prepared to defend your determination with evidence in the event of an audit .
Get another envelope for " items purchased online . " When you make a purchase online , pull out the equivalent amount of money from the proper envelope ( household , gifts , entertainment , etc. ) and put that money into the " items purchased online " envelope . ( The amount grows as you purchase things , which is opposite of the other envelopes , which get spent down as you purchase things . ) Then , the next time you fund your envelopes , withdraw the difference of what you have in your " items purchased online " envelope , and then add that to what 's in the " items purchased online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as you normally do . Example : Let 's say you buy $ 25 in DVDs from Amazon and $ 85 in clothing from Kohls.com . You 'd take $ 25 out of your Entertainment envelope , and $ 85 from your Clothing envelope , and put that $ 110 in your " items purchased online " envelope . ( The rest are cash purchases . ) If you fund your envelopes with $ 500 each period , then you 'd withdraw $ 390 ( $ 500 - $ 110 ) , empty the " online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as usual . Now your " online " envelope is zero again , and you rinse and repeat .
Yup . It 's totally legit and it is not a money market account . Though interest rates are so low across the board , this is about as high as savings accounts get and so it is called a " high-yield savings account " . A number of banks offer these . There are different offerings nation-wide versus local/state . I would use this <URL> at DepositAccounts.com to find them and the blog is very good with updates and trends . Here are some well advertised accounts : <URL> 1.35 % <URL> 1.30 % <URL> 1.25 % plus a 10 % bonus <URL> 1.20 % <URL> 1.05 % <URL> 1.00 % If you do n't already have a rewards checking account , get one of those first . DepositAccounts.com will direct you to these as well . A reasonable interest rate on rewards checking is 2.5 % and up . So much better . The only catches are reasonable - online statements , direct deposit or autopay , and use your debit card 10 or 12 times a month for any transaction amount ( groceries , coffee , gas - easy ) . The other major thing I would consider when opening any account is where you live and the current accounts you have . If you have an AMEX card already , just use their savings account . That way you have unified accounts , faster transfers , your personal information is n't spread thinly around all different banks , you have more leverage with the company as a " long-standing customer " , etc. . As far as using a bank in the state where you live , it simplifies taxes . Two more things : I would always choose a credit union over a bank ( and many have excellent rewards checking accounts ) . If you use Mint , Yodlee , or other financial software , make sure the potential new bank integrates with that service .
I think much of that info is hidden behind pay-walls . Here is one site I 've found . <URL> Another that is for non-profits only is guidestar . <URL>
OCD is a serious condition and honestly you should avoid taking advice on how to deal with it from strangers on the internet . I am guessing you are having problems getting a good answer because few people are willing to risk harming someone in a vulnerable state . You need someone who can work with you throughout the process not some one time quick fix solution dreamed up by some anonymous people on the internet . I wish you luck and please do not take this as blowing you off . My best suggestion is find someone you trust and engage them in helping you gain control over your behavior .
In order for you to be able to talk to the FTB on someone 's behalf , that someone has to submit <URL> . Note that since you 're not a professional , this form must be paper-filed ( CRTP , EA , CPA or attorneys can have this filed on-line ) . Once the form is accepted by the FTB , you can contact the FTB on behalf of your friend . Pay attention : you 're going to represent the partnership , not the individual .
I think about as close as you 're going to get is to use a personal PayPal account , and set up a reminder to yourself to log in and send the money . ( Because , as you said , setting up a recurring payment is a business account thing . ) From <URL> : Sending money -- Personal payments : It 's free within the U.S. to send money to family and friends when you use only your PayPal balance or bank account , or a combination of their PayPal balance and bank account . ... Receiving money -- Personal payments : It 's free to receive money from friends or family in the U.S. when they send the money from the PayPal website using only their PayPal balance or their bank account , or a combination of their PayPal balance and bank account . You can automate the reminder to yourself with any of the gazillion task managers out there : Google Calendar , MS Outlook , Todoist , Remember the Milk , etc. .
If you 're not insolvent , doing something like this is both a moral and legal hazard : The Tax authorities may consider the $ 100,000 write-down as income . So you 'll potentially transform a debt to the bank to a smaller debt to the IRS and State Tax department . What you 're proposing to do is an act of fraud . ( probably a felony ) California is a community property state , which would make this particular scheme more complicated , since you and your wife own equal amounts of the property by statute . When you are insolvent , the tax and moral hazard issues can be a non-issue . Setting up a scenario that makes you appear to be insolvent is where the fraud comes in . If you decide to go down this road , spend a few thousand dollars on competent legal advice .
Yes , you can certainly keep it in a savings account until you spend it . You 'll get much less interest than you will be paying on the loan , but it will be better than nothing . However , you may want to ask if you can use the loan flexibly instead - i.e. only " draw down " the money you need when you need it , and not start paying interest until that happens . That would save you a lot more money . Note that the ISA limit is currently # 5,760 and the limit is on total deposits so you wo n't be able to reuse the amount later in the tax year . Since that ends on April 5th that probably wo n't be an issue for you .
end question
start question
How often do stocks become worthless ?
The only thing that makes a stock worthless is when the company goes out of business . Note that bankruptcy , by itself , does not mean the company is closing . It could successfully restructure its affairs and come out of bankruptcy with a better outlook . Being a small or unprofitable business may cause a company 's to trade in the " penny stock " range , but there is still some value there . Since most dying companies will pass through the penny stock phase , you may be able to track down what you 're looking for by finding companies who have been ( or are about to be ) delisted . Delisting is not death , it 's just the point at which the company 's shares no longer meet the qualifications to be traded on a particular exchange . If you find old stock certificates in your grandmother 's sock drawer , they may be a treasure , or they may be worthless pieces of paper if the company changed its ownership and Grandma did n't know about it .
If you feel comfortable taking an 8 % gain on your stocks , then yes , you should sell . It is generally a good idea to know when you want to sell ( either a price or % ) before you ever actually buy the stocks . That helps from getting emotional and making poor decisions .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
Penny stocks are only appealing to the brokers who sell the penny stocks and the companies selling " penny stock signals ! " . Generally penny stocks provide abysmal returns to the average investor ( you or me ) . In " The Missing Risk Premium " , Falkenstein does a quick overview on average returns to penny stock investors citing the following paper <URL> . Over the 2000 to 2009 time period , average investors lost nearly half their investment . A comparable investment in the S&amp;P over this period would have been flat see <URL> . There is a good table in the book/paper showing that the average annual return for stocks priced at either a penny or ten cents range from -10 percent ( for medium volume ) to -30 % to -40 % for low or high volume . A different paper , " Too Good to Ignore ? A Primer on Listed Penny Stocks " that cites the one above finds that listed , as opposed to OTC " Pink Sheet " penny stocks " , have better returns , but provide no premium for the additional risk and low liquidity . The best advice here is that there is no " quick win " in penny stocks . These act more like lottery tickets and are not appropriate for the average investor . Stear clear !
Historically and theoretically , junk bonds and large cap stocks ( e.g. , S&amp;P 500 ) have about the same risk and returns , with stocks probably outperforming over sufficiently long horizons . Although a high-yield fund is always buying new bonds , in theory an individual bond can only go up so far as eventually ( in extreme cases ) it 's credit improves to the point where it trades close to government bonds . An individual bond can also " jump to default " where a significant chunk of money is lost in one shot . A broadly diversified portfolio of junk bonds will behave similarly to the S&amp;P 500 . Very strongly correlated . There is not much diversification value . You will get much better diversification mixing stocks with investment grade bonds . Check with your tax accountant for your personal situation , but in general in fully taxable accounts junk bonds will throw off more taxable distributions . Under current law , these are taxable at your marginal income tax rate . The capital appreciation , however , is taxed at a more favorable capital gains rate . Junk bond total returns are generally more tilted towards taxable income distributions than stocks .
Many branches of maths study the market , your question would need a lenghty answer . The mathematical problem with the behaviour of the stock markets is that their movements react to human emotions . Fear and greed as you probably knows . So you need to find a mathematical branch specialised on irregular and chaotic behaviour . There are practical researchs being done nowadays in financial institutions with program trading , you can check it out searching the web . The objective is always to make money , that is greed disguised . I would suggest you start by reading this article on <URL> .
JoeTaxpayer 's answer is dead on ... but let me give my own two cents with a little bit of math . Otherwise , I personally find that people talking about diversified portfolios tends to be full of buzzwords . Let 's say that Buffett 's investments are $ 10 million . He would like to earn ≥ 7 % this year , or $ 700,000 . He can invest that money in coca-cola / / underwear , which might return : Or he can invest in " genius moves " that will make headlines : ( like <URL> ) , which might return : And he makes plays for the long haul based on the expected value of the investments . So if he splits it 50/50 ... ( $ 5 million / $ 5 million ) , then his expected value is 822,250 : By diversifying , he does reduce the expected value of the portfolio ... ( He is not giving $ 10 M the chance to turn into $ 1.5 million or $ 2 million for him ! ) . The expected value of that shock-and-awe portfolio with all $ 10 million invested in it is $ 1.2 M. By taking less risk ... for less reward ... his expected return is lower . But his risk is lower too . Scale this example back up into the $ 100 million or billion range that Buffett invests in and that extra margin makes the difference . In the context of your original article , the lower-risk ' cake and underwear ' investments let Buffett go big on the things that will make 20 % + returns on billions of dollars , without completely destroying his investment capital when things take a turn for the worse .
As Dilip has pointed out in the comment , investing in commodities is to either delivery or Buy . Lets say you entered into buying " X " quantities of Soybeans in November , contract is entered into May . In November , if the price is higher than what you purchased for , you can easily sell this , and make money . If in November , the price is lower than your contract price , you have an option to sell it at loss . If you do n't want to sell it at loss , you are supposed to take the physical shipment [ arrange for your own transport ] and store it in warehouse . Although there are companies that will allow you to lease their warehouse , it very soon becomes more loss making proposition . By doing this you can HOLD onto as long as you want [ or as long as the good survive and do n't rot ] It makes sense for a large wholesaler to enter into Buy contracts as he would be like to get known prices for at least half the stock he needs . Similarly large farmers / co-operative societies need to enter into Sell contracts so that they are safeguarded against price fluctuations .
Depending on how you view the loan , it could either be considered an Asset or a Liability . Since you are not charging interest , it might seem more intuitive to create an " Assets : Cash Loan " account , and transfer money to &amp; from it ( when you receive payments ) like you would with a bank account . Personally , I prefer to think of all loans as liabilities . Whether it 's a debt which you owe someone , or a balance which someone else owes you , since it 's an ' unsettled ' amount I file it under " Liabilities : Loan " . Either way , you record the initial balance as a debit from your bank , and then record payments as credits back to your primary account . The only way that income or expenses ever gets involved would be if you charged interest ( income ) or if you forgave some or all of the loan ( expense ) at some point in the future .
For bonds bought at par ( the face value of the bond , like buying a CD for $ 1000 ) the payment it makes is the same as yield . You pay $ 1000 and get say , $ 40 per year or 4 % . If you buy it for more or less than that $ 1000 , say $ 900 , there 's some math ( not for me , I use a finance calculator ) to tell you your return taking the growth to maturity into account , i.e. the extra $ 100 you get when you get the full $ 1000 back . Obviously , for bonds , you care about whether the comp [ any or municipality will pay you back at all , and then you care about how much you 'll make when then do . In that order . For stocks , the picture is abit different as some companies give no dividend but reinvest all profits , think Berkshire Hathaway . On the other hand , many people believe that the dividend is important , and choose to buy stocks that start with a nice yield , a $ 30 stock with a $ 1/yr dividend is 3.3 % yield . Sounds like not much , but over time you expect the company to grow , increase in value and increase its dividend . 10 years hence you may have a $ 40 stock and the dividend has risen to $ 1.33 . Now it 's 4.4 % of the original investment , and you sit on that gain as well .
Credit ratings are the same as credit score , but they very different from a credit report . A credit score is a calculated number based on a usually secret formula that attempts to quantify with math a consistent number that ranks everybody equally and uniformly as to the risk they present to a lender . Basically , we are all just a number ; the higher the better . Your credit report is a detailed list of all your accounts , how well you pay them and if you are behind or have settled them as agreed . It is a detailed history of how you use credit , who you have credit from , how long you have had credit , and how much credit and debt you carry . A credit report relies on lenders honestly and accurately stating how your account is performing with them . Some radio show hosts ( Clark Howard ) say that up to 70 % of United States citizens have a mistake on their credit reports . The credit report is the source of values that are computed into your credit score . By and large , your credit score gives a lender a good idea if you are acceptable , but if you number is on the line , they MIGHT choose to read your credit report to make a decision by a human . Your credit score is how retail stores can offer and immediately approve store cards . If you number is high enough , credit you get . Source : <URL> EDIT : I did n't read well the first time , but sine I typed it I will leave it here . Sorry for rushing and not reading well .
The " just accounting " is how money market works these days . Lets look at this simplified example : The bank creates an asset - loan in the amount of X , secured by a house worth 1.25 * X ( assuming 20 % downpayment ) . The bank also creates a liability in the amount of X to its depositors , because the money lent was the money first deposited into the bank by someone else ( or borrowed by the bank from the Federal Reserve ( * ) , which is , again , a liability ) . That liability is not secured . Now the person defaults on the loan in the amount of X , but at that time the prices dropped , and the house is now worth 0.8 * X . The bank forecloses , sells the house , recovers 80 % of the loan , and removes the asset of the loan , creating an asset of cash in the value of 0.8 * X . But the liability in the amount of X did n't go anywhere . Bank still has to repay the X amount of money back to its depositors/Feds . The difference ? 20 % of X in our scenario - that 's the bank 's loss . ( * ) Federal Reserve is the US equivalent of a central bank .
Based on their <URL> After the initial market capitalization breakpoints are determined by the ranges listed above , new members are assigned on the basis of the breakpoints , and existing members are reviewed to determine if they fall within a cumulative 5 % market cap range around these new market capitalization breakpoints . If an existing member 's market cap falls within this cumulative 5 % of the market capitalization breakpoint , it will remain in its current index rather than be moved to a different market capitalization -- based Russell index . Companies that fall on the edge of market capitalization breakpoints are often still within a manager 's opportunity set , since they have not significantly grown or declined in market capitalization . In other words they wo n't move companies from the Russel 2000 to the Russel 1000 to the other just for the sake of moving them , if they are within 5 % of the break point . Moving them just adds to selling and buying of stocks with no real advantage . This can mean that one list will be too big and the other too small .
It 's an asset if you can sell it or if it provides cash flow . For example , if you own a house , the house is an asset , even if you have a mortgage , because you can sell it . If you rent your home from someone else , it 's not an asset , because you do n't own it and ca n't sell it . Stocks , cars that you own ( not lease ) , cash , checking and savings accounts , precious metals , collectibles , and so on are assets . Liabilities are debts ; that is , what you owe . So , for example , liabilities include : balances on mortgages , student loans , credit cards , other loans , any tax or judgment debts , and so on .
First , your question contains a couple of false premises : Options in the U.S. do not trade on the NYSE , which is a stock exchange . You must have been looking at a listing from an options exchange . There are a handful of options exchanges in the U.S. , and while two of these have " NYSE " in the name , referring to " NYSE " by itself still refers to the stock exchange . Companies typically do n't decide themselves whether options will trade for their stock . The exchange and other market participants ( market makers ) decide whether to create a market for them . The Toronto Stock Exchange ( TSX ) is also a stock exchange . It does n't list any options . If you want to see Canadian-listed options on equities , you 're looking in the wrong place . Next , yes , RY does have listed options in Canada . <URL> . Did you know about the <URL> ? The MX is part of the TMX Group , which owns both the Toronto Stock Exchange ( TSX ) and the Montreal Exchange . You 'll find lots of Canadian equity and index options trading at the MX . If you have an options trading account with a decent Canadian broker , you should have access to trade options at the MX . Finally , even considering the existence of the MX , you 'll still find that a lot of Canadian companies do n't have any options listed . Simply : smaller and/or less liquid stocks do n't have enough demand for options , so the options exchange &amp; market makers do n't offer any . It is n't cost-effective for them to create a market where there will be very few participants .
Simply put , the interest you 're paying on your loans is eating into any gains you have in the stock market . So , figure out how much you 're paying in interest and consider the feasibility of paying off some of the loan . Also figure in if you would be selling the stock at a profit or a loss . Generally speaking , a home loan is typically long-term , with a high principal . I believe the consensus is that it is typically not worth paying down extra on it . A car loan , though , is much shorter term , with a lower principal . It may be worth it to pay that down . I would certainly consider paying down the loan with 10 % interest , even without running any numbers . What about doing this without selling stock ? The reason I suggest that is that you should not sell the stock unless you truly need the money or for some material reason ( s ) related to the company , the market , etc. . ( Of course , one other reason would be to cut losses . ) Unless I was looking to sell some stock anyway , I would try other ways to come up with the money to pay down the highest interest loan , at least . If you are thinking of selling stock to pay down debt , definitely run the numbers .
Sometimes 403b 's contain annuities or other insurance related instruments . I know that in many New York schools the local teacher unions administer the 403b plan , and sometimes choose proprietary investments like variable annuities or other insurance products . In New York the Attorney General sued and settled with the state teacher 's union for their endorsement of a high cost ING 403b plan -- I believe the maintenance fees were in excess of 3 % / year ! In a tax deferred plan like a 401k , 403b or 457 plan , the low risk " insurance fund " is generally a GIC " Guaranteed Investment Contract " . A GIC ( aka " Stable Value Fund " ) is sort of cross between a CD and a Money Market fund . It 's used by insurance companies to raise short term capital . GICs usually yield a premium versus a money market and are a safe investment . If your wife is in a 403b with annuities or other life-insurance tie ins other than GICs , make sure that you understand the fee structure and ask lots of questions .
The only thing that makes a stock worthless is when the company goes out of business . Note that bankruptcy , by itself , does not mean the company is closing . It could successfully restructure its affairs and come out of bankruptcy with a better outlook . Being a small or unprofitable business may cause a company 's to trade in the " penny stock " range , but there is still some value there . Since most dying companies will pass through the penny stock phase , you may be able to track down what you 're looking for by finding companies who have been ( or are about to be ) delisted . Delisting is not death , it 's just the point at which the company 's shares no longer meet the qualifications to be traded on a particular exchange . If you find old stock certificates in your grandmother 's sock drawer , they may be a treasure , or they may be worthless pieces of paper if the company changed its ownership and Grandma did n't know about it .
It has little to do with money or finance . It 's basic neuroscience . When we get money , our brains release dopamine ( read Your Money and Your Brain ) , and receiving dividends is " getting money . " It feels good , so we 're more likely to do it again . What you often see are rationalizations because the above explanation sounds ... irrational , so many people want to make their behavior look more rational . Ceteris paribus a solid growth stock is as good as a solid company that pays dividends . In value-investing terms , dividend paying stocks may appear to give you an advantage in that you can keep the dividends in cash and buy when the price of the security is low ( " underpriced " ) . However , as you realize , you could just sell the growth stock at certain prices and the effect would be the same , assuming you 're using a free brokerage like Robin Hood . You can easily sell just a portion of the shares periodically to get a " stream of cash " like dividends . That presents no problem whatsoever , so this can not be the explanation to why some people think it is " smart " to be a dividend investor . Yes , if you 're using a brokerage like Robin Hood ( there may be others , but I think this is the only one right now ) , then you are right on .
Every reward program has to have a funding source . If the card gives you x percent back on all purchases . That means that their business is structured to entice you to pump more transactions through the system . Either their other costs are lower , or the increased business allows them to make more money off of late fees , and interest . If the card has you earn extra points for buying a type of item or from a type of store ( home stores improvement in the Spring ) , they are trying to make sure you use their card for what can be a significant amount of business during a small window of time . Sometimes they cap it by saying 5 % cash back at home improvement stores during the spring but only on the first $ 1500 of purchases . That limits it to $ 75 maximum . Adding more business for them , makes more money for them . Groceries and gas are a good year round purchase categories . Yes there is some variation depending on the season , and the weather , but overall there is not an annual cliff once the season ends . Gas and groceries account for thousands of dollars a year these are not insignificant categories , for many families are recession proof . If they perceive a value from this type of offer they will change their buying behavior . My local grocery store has a deal with a specific gas station . This means that they made a monetary deal . Because you earn points at the grocery store and spend points at the gas station , the grocery store is paying some compensation to the gas station every time you use points . The gas station must be seeing an increase in business so theoretically they do n't get 100 % compensation from the grocery store . In cases where credit cards give airline miles , the credit card company buys the miles from the airline at a discount because they know that a significant number of miles will never be used .
end question
start question
Can I file a NULL return in India ?
As an NRI , you are still liable to pay taxes on certain incomes earned in India , like the interest on Savings accounts / rent received from property / capital gains on shares / etc. . It is advisable to file a NIL return in India . The forms are same as one you fill for normal returns . You just have to declare the right source of income and show zero taxes [ if within the exempt bracket ] . There are quite a few online services including <URL> As Dilip has mentioned in comments , US taxes on your global income , hence it would be advisable to declare the interest income in India to the IRS . The Double tax avoidance treaty would help you avoid being taxed twice , however you would still pay the max rate of tax .
is the tax applied on these high valued deposits , No tax is not applied on high value cash deposits . These are monitored and tracked . For example one deposits Rs 15 lacs cash in his bank account . This will be reported to Tax Authorities . At year end if one files a return showing income of say Rs 40 lacs and tax paid accordingly , then fine . But if the return only show say Rs 2 lacs as income , then Tax Authorities will question from where you got Rs 15 lacs . If you have a explanation , then fine . So high value transactions are monitored by Tax authorities to find out if there is some kind of tax evasion . if I deposit Rs 10 Lakhs today and if I withdraw it back after two days , should I worry ? This transaction would be reported , if there is a query and you can explain then there is no reason to worry . The interest for 2 days would be around Rs 220 , and depending on other interest you may have to pay taxes .
In order for you to be able to talk to the FTB on someone 's behalf , that someone has to submit <URL> . Note that since you 're not a professional , this form must be paper-filed ( CRTP , EA , CPA or attorneys can have this filed on-line ) . Once the form is accepted by the FTB , you can contact the FTB on behalf of your friend . Pay attention : you 're going to represent the partnership , not the individual .
To the best of my understanding , the CPA is wrong . You can only deduct the contributions in the year you made them . From the <URL> : There shall be allowed as a deduction any charitable contribution ( as defined in subsection ( c ) ) payment of which is made within the taxable year . A charitable contribution shall be allowable as a deduction only if verified under regulations prescribed by the Secretary . A discussion on the topic on the <URL> : As with all itemized deductions , timing is everything . You can take the deduction for your contribution in the year that you make it . If the amounts are substantial , you can amend the return for that year and claim the additional deduction . If it is indeed the CPA 's omission , I 'd expect him to prepare the amended return for you at no charge .
So My question is if I purchased the shares on 03-08-15 then will I get the dividend ? Yes if you purchase on 3-Aug , the shares will actually get credited to your account on 5-Aug and hence you will hold the shares on 6-Aug , the record date .
That is correct , the SS cap is on total wages , not each wage . When you create an LLC ( as a disregarded entity ) , you do n't pay yourself with a W2 , all the LLC earnings are your earnings . So instead of Social Security deductions , you will be paying <URL> ( which totals to the same amount as you would be paying with W2 to yourself , just under different name ) . Note that S-Corp is a pass-through entity for Federal taxes , so there 's not much difference from LLC being taxed as LLC ( other than extra complexity , for S-Corp you need to file additional forms while LLC is completely invisible on your Federal taxes ) . It may be different on a state level , but probably not much as well . S-Corp existed when there were no LLC 's , but now I do n't see a reason to ever deal with S-Coprs unless you 're dealing with shareholders and shares . Something to take into the account : if you 're paying yourself with W2 - you 'll have to deduct the FICA taxes on all your earnings , and then get credit on your 1040 . With LLC - you wo n't have to pay and wait for refunds .
Sorry , but whether or not you drive in New York , the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles requires you to get a license in New York and surrender your California license . <URL> : If you become a <URL> of NYS , you must get a NYS driver license within 30 days and surrender your out-of-state driver license . Normally , you can not have a NYS driver license and a driver license from another state , but there are exceptions . It is a violation of Federal law to hold more than one commercial driver license ( CDL ) .
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
Is the balance ( in dollars , say ) automatically converted to rupees when I try to : You ca n't transact on this account like you do on savings account . So there is NO ATM/Debit Card/Net Banking . You have to walk-in to the Branch and withdraw in local currency or in travel cards as required . Am I correct in understanding that a resident foreign currency account can not have deposits made into it in rupees , say if someone wants to transfer money to me using IMPS ? Deposits are restricted . <URL>
No . Current account is not a requirement . You can use savings account . You would need to pay taxes on interest . Savings account have limitation on number of withdrawal in a quarter , hence most sole proprietorship have current account .
There does not appear to be a way to export the customers and invoices nor a way to import them into another data file if you could export them . However , as said in the comments to your question , your question seems predicated upon the notion that it is ' best practice ' to create a new data file each year . This is not considered necessary It should be noted that GnuCash reports should be able to provide accurate year-end data for accounting purposes without zeroing transactions , so book-closing may not be necessary . Leaving books unclosed does mean that account balances in the Chart of Accounts will not show Year-To-Date amounts . - <URL> The above linked wiki page has several methods to ' close the books ' if that is what you want to do - but it is not necessary . There is even <URL> which only talks about setting up the new accounts and transactions - nothing about customers , invoices etc. . Note that you can ' close the books ' without creating a new data file . In summary : you can not do it ; but you do n't need to create a new file for the new year so you do n't need to do it .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
The Interest rate of 3 % and 7.5 % is for funds held in regular savings account that are denominated in Rupee . Moving these funds back to US will require compliance with Indian Foreign Exchange Act . If you are not intending to move funds back to US , then this would be good move . However you would still need to pay tax in US on the interest generated as personal tax in US requires one to pay tax on income world wide . As also pointed out by others , there is a risk of FX Conversion . The other option is to hold funds in NRE or USD denominated acounts where funds can be moved back to US without any hassel and are held in USD . However the interest rate on these accounts is similar to what one would get in US , slightly better at best . So you need to figure out if you need the funds back in US , then I guess keeping it in US would be a good move . However if you do not need the funds back in US , then moving it to India would make sense .
There 's a very simple way to answer this , even before you start TurboTax : Go to each State 's tax authority website ( for example , <URL> ) Look for a section that answers the question " Do I need to file ? " ( for example , <URL> ) Read the information there and decide whether or not you have to file for that particular state . As far as I know , most states have separate instructions for residents , non-residents , and part-year residents . Yes , it is possible that you may end up filing in quite a few states . I would do this before you buy the state modules in TurboTax because it may not be worth paying for them if you do n't need to file .
Yes , you 're allowed to file jointly . To the best of my knowledge there 's no situation where the law forces US tax residents to file MFS even if you want to file MFJ . MFS is always a taxpayer 's choice ( this is not necessary true for non-residents ) .
You will need to file your tax return ( form 1040 ) with the form 2555/2555-EZ attached to it . Usually , retail tax preparation services , especially on-line websites , are not tailored for such a unique need and people working there are likely not train to understand what it is that you 're talking about . If you 're up to doing the research yourself you can use the IRS free fillable forms or just mail in paper return which you can fill manually . Otherwise , check with a local US-licensed tax prepare or find a US-based tax prepare working with expats . @Eric raises a good point - this is a good time to remind you that you also need to file <URL> ( separately of the tax return ) and maybe other reports .
<URL> . Travel expenses relating to the attendance at conferences , seminars and other work-related events are deductible to the extent that they relate to your income-producing activities . You will need to apportion your travel expenses where you undertake both work-related and private activities . Travel costs to and from the location of the work-related event will only be deductible where the primary purpose of the travel was to attend the event . Accommodation , food and other incidental costs must be apportioned between work-related and private activities taking into account the types of activities that you did on the day you incurred the cost . You might like to consider in advance what you would tell them if they questioned this - for instance you might say ( if they are true ) : I 've attended similar seminars previously , in other locations I never seriously considered going to Elbonia until after I heard about this seminar The work benefits of this seminar were as follows . . I 've strictly excluded the vacation-related expenses from my claim
A stipend received for the specific purposes of studies is not taxable . It is not clear from your question as to whether there are any strings attached to the money you receive . If its not for specific purpose , then its taxable as income and tax need to be paid accordingly . Please consult a CA and he can go through the specifics of your case .
<URL> is a great resource to help you understand what you can and ca n't deduct . It 's not a yes/no question , it depends on the exact company use , other use , and contemporaneous record keeping .
For a transaction on POS , where physical swipe is required , the transaction is valid only if it is signed the by card holder . I have several times disputed transactions that did not belong to me . The card company often make you go round about , but one has to be persistent and it then gets reversed . On Card Not Present transactions , be it internet or Phone , they are not valid unless authenticated by additional PIN . There may be certain companies that would allow a transaction without such authorization , but these would get reversed if the card holder complains .
end question
start question
Retirement saving without employer sponsered plan ?
In the US , there are several ways to save for retirement : Tax deferred savings : These include the individual retirement arrangements ( IRA ) , 401 ( k ) employer sponsored plans and other similar plans ( 457 ( b ) plans for government employees , 403 ( b ) plans for universities , etc ) and self-employed plans ( either SEP or SIMPLE IRA or Solo-401 ( k ) ) . Tax exempt savings : These include essentially the same kinds of programs , designated as " Roth " ( for <URL> who introduced the legislation in 1997 ) . Contribution limits The are differences in the amounts you can save with each type of the investment vehicle . For 401 ( k ) and similar , the current maximum allowed for deferral is $ 17500 a year . However , that does n't include the employee match . Including the match , the current maximum is $ 51k a year . For self employed plans , the maximum is also $ 51K a year , but is limited to 1/4 of net earnings , i.e. : if you 're losing money - you can not also deduct your retirement contributions from your taxable income . For non-sponsored plans ( IRA ) the current limit is $ 5500 a year . I.e. : if you do n't have access to an employer-sponsored plan and you 're not self-employed - you 're screwed . If you no longer have access to the 401 ( k ) plan you may not be able to save the same amounts as you 're saving now . The IRA limits are for the deductability of the IRA contributions in the tax-deferral scheme ( Traditional IRA contributions ) and also for the tax free scheme ( Roth IRA ) contributions . I.e. : you may be limited as to how much of your Traditional IRA contribution you can deduct ( but you can always contribute ) , but with Roth - you may be limited as to how much you can contribute . However , after 2010 , conversion from Traditional to Roth is not limited , so there 's a <URL> that allows contributing to Traditional IRA a non-deductible amount and then converting it to Roth . Limits are for totals Keep in mind that the limits ( $ 17500 , $ 51K and $ 5500 that I 've mentioned ) are for totals for both schemes . I.e. : If you contributed $ 5500 to a Traditional IRA - you have $ 0 ( ZERO ) left to contribute to a Roth IRA . If you contributed $ 10000 to a 401 ( k ) on job A , and you also have a second job B - you only have $ 7500 left allowed to be contributed on job B . If the job B match is more generous - you may have lost some of the potential match . That happens frequently when people switch jobs after maxing out their 401k at the previous job with inferior matching .
Short answer : check if you can deal in ETFs with your broker . There are some ETFs/ETNs that allow you to swap a fixed amount of USD to EUR without any leverage , or alternatively with 2x leverage . For example , the ETF with ticker ERO fits your request and the following site lists other options as well : <URL> The advantage is that the ETF should have smaller costs than a cash transaction and that you should implicitly get interest on your deposit . The latter is irrelevant at the moment given the current Fed/ECB interest rates . In general , if you plan to hold the currency position longer ( > 6 months ) it can make sense to buy a short duration bond ETF that invests in EUR denominated bonds . That is usually a simple and effective way to get exposure to another currency . However , given the risk of government defaults in Europe and the low interest rate at the moment I would not bother with it . Corporate bonds may be an option if you are more adventurous . Finally , buying foreign currency ( FX ) as cash either physically at a bank or via a bank transfer usually involves higher costs than ETFs . Do not get fooled by banks claiming they charge " no commissions " . They will use the exchange rates to hide all fees , and fees often are 5 % -10 % of the exchanged sum . Cost is best measured by a round-turn : exchange USD to EUR and immediately change EUR back to USD . You get less USD back than you original had , and can calculate the costs as a percentage of the original sum . Alternatively you could compare the offered rate with the current mid price quoted on an FX site , or ask for the bid and ask price , and calculate the spread manually . For example , at xe.com they quote me 5000 $ for 3585EUR , and 3585EUR back to 4714 $ . The loss is roughly 5.7 % , which is the spread between bid and ask . You get a better rates for larger sums and during business hours , and worse rates if the currency is not a G7 currency . The best rates I have seen with internet FX brokers were about 2-3 % . No matter what , if you deal in cash FX you also need a EUR account . Many of the big banks in the US will offer you foreign currency accounts , but they also tend to charge you fees for running it . The cheapest option is frequently to have an account locally in another country . However , banks often wo n't open an account for non-residents . I think there are also strict reporting and tax forms to fill out as US citizens if you open accounts abroad .
If you can get a rate of savings that is higher than your debt , you save . If you ca n't then you pay off your debt . That makes the most of the money you have . Also to think about : what are you goals ? Do you want to own a home , start a family , further your education , move to a new town ? All of these you would need to save up for . If you can do these large transactions in cash you will be better off . If it were me I would do what I think is a parroting of Dave Ramsay 's advice Pay off credit cards and other unsecured debt . Save up several months of living expenses as cash . Put that in an accessible place and earn a bit on it . Contribute 100 % to a retirement account . ( If you start now , you can achieve amazing things when you retire ) Pay off that low interest debt Invest a little for fun Save up for a big purchase Enjoy your extra money . Congratulations by the way . It is n't easy to do what you have accomplished and you will lead a simpler life if you do n't have to worry about money everyday .
The biggest and primary question is how much money you want to live on within retirement . The lower this is , the more options you have available . You will find that while initially complex , it does n't take much planning to take complete advantage of the tax system if you are intending to retire early . Are there any other investment accounts that are geared towards retirement or long term investing and have some perk associated with them ( tax deferred , tax exempt ) but do not have an age restriction when money can be withdrawn ? I 'm going to answer this with some potential alternatives . The US tax system currently is great for people wanting to early retire . If you can save significant money you can optimize your taxes so much over your lifetime ! 401ks and IRAs If you retire early and have money invested in a Roth IRA or a traditional 401k , that money ca n't be touched without penalty until you 're 55/59 . ( Let 's ignore Roth contributions that can technically be withdrawn ) Ok , the 401k myth . The " I 'm hosed if I put money into it since it 's stuck " perspective is n't true for a variety of reasons . If you retire early you get a long amount of time to take advantage of retirement accounts . One way is to primarily contribute to pretax 401k during working years . After retiring , begin converting this at a very low tax rate . You can convert money in a traditional IRA whenever you want to be Roth . You just pay your marginal tax rate which ... for an early retiree might be 0 % . Then after 5 years - you now have a chunk of principle that has become Roth principle - and can be withdrawn whenever . Let 's imagine you retire at 40 with 100k in your 401k ( pretax ) . For 5 years , you convert $ 20k ( assuming married ) . Because we get $ 20k between exemptions/deduction it means you pay $ 0 taxes every year while converting $ 20k of your pretax IRA to Roth . Or if you have kids , even more . After 5 years you now can withdraw that 20k/year 100 % tax free since it has become principle . This is only a good idea when you are retired early because you are able to fill up all your " free " income for tax conversions . When you are working you would be paying your marginal rate . But your marginal rate in retirement is ... 0 % . <URL> on a forum you might enjoy . This is sometimes called a Roth pipeline . Basically : assuming you have no income while retired early you can fairly simply convert traditional IRA money into Roth principle . This is then accessible to you well before the 55/59 age but you get the full benefit of the pretax money . But let 's pretend you do n't want to do that . You need the money ( and tax benefit ! ) now ! How beneficial is it to do traditional 401ks ? Imagine you live in a state/city where you are paying 25 % marginal tax rate . If your expected marginal rate in your early retirement is 10-15 % you are still better off putting money into your 401k and just paying the 10 % penalty on an early withdrawal . In many cases , for high earners , this can actually still be a tax benefit overall . The point is this : just because you have to " work " to get money out of a 401k early does NOT mean you lose the tax benefits of it . In fact , current tax code really does let an early retiree have their cake and eat it too when it comes to the Roth/traditional 401k/IRA question . Taxable accounts Are you limited to a generic taxable brokerage account ? Currently , a huge perk for those with small incomes is that long term capital gains are taxed based on your current federal tax bracket . If your federal marginal rate is <URL> you will pay nothing for long term capital gains , until this income pushes you into the 25 % federal bracket . This might change , but right now means you can capture many capital gains without paying taxes on them . This is huge for early retirees who can manipulate income . You can have significant " income " and not pay taxes on it . You can also stack this with before mentioned Roth conversions . Convert traditional IRA money until you would begin owing any federal taxes , then capture long term capital gains until you would pay tax on those . Combined this can represent a huge amount of money per year . HSAs So littleadv mentioned HSAs but . . for an early retiree they can be ridiculously good . You can invest them You pay no FICA ( for employer plans , sorry self employed people ! ) You can withdraw medical expenses whenever . Not only the year of contribution ( like FSAs ) At age 65 effectively turns into IRA ( except the FICA benefit remains ) What this means is you can invest the maximum into your HSA for 10 years , let it grow 100 % tax free , and save all your medical receipts/etc . Then in 10 years start withdrawing that money . While it sucks healthcare costs so much in America , you might as well take advantage of the tax opportunities to make it suck slightly less . Related Resources There are many online communities dedicated to learning and optimizing their lives in order to achieve early retirement . The question you are
I believe you are talking about Public Provident Fund and National Savings Certificate schemes in India . <URL> - > Deposit money - > If you want to take a loan after 3 years , you can take out 25 % of the balance in your PPF account . <URL> - > Money locked for 6 years and can only be encashed after 3 years , you cancel your deposit and encash all your money . Money is safe in both cases , because they are secured by the Indian government . But interest ( 8.75 % at present for both in 2014-15 financial year ) is compunded anually for PPF , but half yearly for NSC . So you get a higher interest rate in case of NSC . So if you can lock in your money , without any need for withdrawls , choose a NSC for higher returns . Tax rebate wise , both are same .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
If there were no contribution limits , you could shelter practically all of your income from income tax . The government would not have sufficient tax revenue . Hence , there are limits which ensure some personal income remains taxable today . Similarly , when you retire , there are rules for minimum required distributions ( withdrawals ) which ensure the government gets to tax some of your income each year in your retirement , depending on the account type . One other advantage of limits is to encourage people to approach saving for retirement using regular , ongoing contributions made in the context of each year 's limit . The limit , in a sense , can be a form of guidance . Some aim to contribute to the limit , and some even save beyond it using plain taxable investments .
I wo n't discuss the current market as much as I will address the title question . Is selling your house without an agent worth the hassle ? It depends on who you are . Take a good hard look at yourself and ask yourself - do I know anything about houses ? the market ? the paperwork involved in a sale ? do I like talking with people I do n't know ? am I comfortable sharing my opinions , advising others , negotiating ? does anyone ever say I could sell ice to an Eskimo ? am I familiar with other neighbourhoods , features , benefits , nearby amenities , comparable homes , design elements , etc ? Am I available , do I have time to do showings , can I handle the communication , appointments , etc necessary to show the home ? What is a reasonable asking price ? How did I arrive at it ? How will I justify it to a buyer ? There is a great deal more involved with selling a home than many people think . If you read through the above list and think , I do n't even know where I would start to talk about any of this , chances are you either need an agent , or assistance from someone you trust who can help you in these areas . I watched a neighbour sell his home privately a year or two ago . He wrote up a great ad with a popular company that supports private sellers . The home had undergone many upgrades , the ad raved about them and all other related info , the price was realistic in the market at the time , and he was a gregarious , confident guy who worked in sales . He had no problem taking calls , answering questions , and had enough handyman experience and reno background that he could speak confidently about the condition of the home . He got a great price , over asking , in about 20 days . Contrast this to another person I watched list her home privately . She was quiet , a teacher , with an unassuming , though lovely personality . The home needed some upgrading but was solid and attractive , the ad was more generic , the photos were flat and unexciting . Same great neighbourhood , but you 'd never guess it from the ad . Same website . Similar market timing . She reduced , then reduced again . I think it took six months before it finally sold . I could n't have imagined her selling anything , much less a house . Or negotiating . Some people just do n't have that sales personality . Of course it 's much , much cheaper to do it on your own . But first ask yourself , are you up for the challenge ?
<URL> of what 's required to handle the reporting of tip income . To address this question specifically , here 's the relevant instructions from that post : If your allocated tips are less than what 's recorded in your daily log , and you reported your tips to your employer , then it is likely that something is wrong with your employer 's recordkeeping system . You can ask your employer to correct your W-2 . You should report the allocated tips on Form 4137 , plus any additional tips you show in your daily records .
No , you can not . 401k must not be discriminatory , i.e. : you can not have different matching for different employees .
Yes , the penalty is the tax you pay on it again when you withdraw the money . The withdrawal of the excess contribution is taxed as your wages ( but no penalty ) . Excess contribution can not be added to the basis or considered " after-tax " ( hence the double taxation ) . Note that allowing you to keep the excess contribution in the plan may lead to disqualifying the plan , so it is likely that the plan administrator will force you to remove the excess contribution if they become aware of it . Otherwise you may end up forcing early 401 ( k ) withdrawal on all of your co-workers . More on <URL> . And <URL> .
There are several options ( very simplified ) : Traditional IRA - you can deduct IRA contributions from your taxable income up to a certain level , and contribute up to 5000 to IRA per year . SEP-IRA - IRA for self-employed , has higher contribution limits that can be deducted from the taxes . You can also do " profit sharing " through this plan , but be careful - if you have employees they must be eligible . Solo 401k - a 401k plan for self-employed ( for a single member , generally ) . Same as a regular 401k , except that you 're the employee and the employer , so you can match your own contributions . As with SEP-IRA , if you have employees they can not be discriminated . Solo 401k is easier to manage than a regular 401k , as long as the plan assets are kept below certain level ( $ 250K IIRC ) . It might be better for you if your self-employment income is not that high ( SEP-IRA has limits calculated based on the self employement income , 401k has this limit on matching only ) . Manage your own retirement savings without a dedicated program . You wo n't have any limitations and wo n't require to allow participation for your employees , but you lose the tax benefits . Here 's <URL> .
Apples and oranges . The stock market requires a tiny bit of your time . Perhaps a lot if you are interested in individual stocks , and pouring through company annual reports , but close to none if you have a mix of super low cost ETFs or index fund . The real estate investing you propose is , at some point , a serious time commitment . Unless you use a management company to handle incoming calls and to dispatch repair people . But that 's a cost that will eat into your potential profits . If you plan to do this ' for real , ' I suggest using the 401 ( k ) , but then having the option to take loans from it . The ability to write a check for $ 50K is pretty valuable when buying real estate . When you run the numbers , this will benefit you long term . Edit - on re-reading your question <URL> , I withdraw my answer above . You overestimated the return you will get , the actual return will likely be negative . It does n't take too many years of your one per year strategy to wipe you out . Per your comment below , if bought right , rentals can be a great long term investment . Glad you did n't buy the loser .
Like keshlam mentioned Insurance and Investment should not generally be mixed . Term Insurance is the best and cheapest insurance . This would work out better than Money Back Option you have . i.e. Take a Term Insurance for the same amount , invest the difference between the Premium of Term Insurance and Money Back option . Even if you invest this difference in Bank FD 's the return is much more than what your Money Back policy gives . Pension Plans are not advisable . Although IRDA has in recent times streamlined quite a bit of it , there is still some amount that goes into commission , plus the returns from Annuity providers [ the yearly payment you get after retirement ] is less than what you get from FD 's . i.e. currently the Annuity rates are in the range of 5-6 % and one year FD 's are in the range of 7-8 % . The only reason one need to go with Pension plan or Money Bank plan would be if one is not financially disciplined or ca n't reconcile to the fact that Term Insurance in-spite of not giving any returns is much better .
The most that you could contribute would be maxing out a 401k ( of either type ) and a Roth IRA . 17.5 + 5.5 = 23k ( assuming you are n't old enough for the 401k catch up provision ) The 401k contribution limits are regardless of Roth or traditional 401k . If you contribute to a workplace 401k it will phase out your deduction for a traditional IRA . That leaves the Roth IRA as your other option . If you are married and your spouse works , you can contribute 46k ( 17.5 his 401k , 17.5 her 401k , 5.5 his roth ira , 5.5 her roth ira ) . If you are married and your spouse does not work , you can contribute 28.5 k ( 17.5 his 401k , 5.5 his roth ira , 5.5 her spousal roth ira ) . Note : Some would say that maxing out a Roth 401k at 17.5 k is more than maxing out a traditional 401k at 17.5 because a Roth 401k takes more than 17.5 k of earnings to contribute 17.5 k of funds and a traditional 401k takes 17.5 k of earnings to contribute 17.5 k of funds .
Believe it or not , there is a <URL> . That would be a good place to start .
Generally not , however some brokers may allow it . My previous CFD Broker - CMC Markets , used to allow you to adjust the leverage from the maximum allowed for that stock ( say 5 % ) to 100 % of your own money before you place a trade . So obviously if you set it at 100 % you pay no interest on holding open long positions overnight . If you ca n't find a broker that allows this ( as I do n't think there would be too many around ) , you can always trade within your account size . For example , if you have an account size of $ 20,000 then you only take out trades that have a face value up to the $ 20,000 . When you become more experienced and confident you can increase this to 2 or 3 time your account size . Maybe , if you are just starting out , you should first open a virtual account to test your strategies out and get used to using leverage . You should put together a trading plan with position sizing and risk management before starting real trading , and you can test these in your virtual trading before putting real money on the table . Also , if you want to avoid leverage when first starting out , you could always start trading the underlying without any leverage , but you should still have a trading plan in place first .
Adult student retirement accounts do not affect financial aid for the FAFSA . From the <URL> about what is included in student-owned investments ( line 42 ) . Investments do not include the home you live in , the value of life insurance , retirement plans ( 401 [ k ] plans , pension funds , annuities , non-education IRAs , Keogh plans , etc. ) or cash , savings and checking accounts already reported in questions 41 and 89 . Investments also do not include UGMA and UTMA accounts for which you are the custodian , but not the owner However , some schools use their own methodology to determine financial aid and some schools do take retirement accounts into consideration . <URL> says Retirement assets ( 401K , 403B , IRA , Roth IRA , and any other type of retirement account ) are treated somewhat differently from other assets . We ask that you report the total current value of any retirement assets regardless of their type . We do , however , protect 50 % of the value of these assets in recognition of the fact that their liquidation may incur an additional tax burden and/or penalties for early withdrawal of these funds . More importantly , we strongly encourage our students to save for retirement and believe that this type of asset protection is in keeping with that philosophy .
Start as early as possible and you will want to kiss your younger self when you get to retirement age . I know you ( and everyone else at that age ) thinks that they do n't make enough to start saving and leans towards waiting until you get established in your career and start making better money . Do n't put it off . Save some money out of each paycheck even if it is only $ 50 . Trust me , as little as you make now , you probably have more disposable income than you will when you make twice as much . Your lifestyle always seems to keep up with your income and you will likely ALWAYS feel like you do n't have money left over to save . The longer you wait , the more you are going to have to stuff away to make up for that lost time you could have been compounding your returns as shown in this table ( assuming 9.4 percent average gain annually , which has been the average return on the stock market from 1926-2010 ) . I also suggest reading this article when explains it in more detail : <URL> ?
If he 's not used to cooking , recipes might not be enough . Maybe he needs cooking lessons . I used to think if you could read , you could cook -- but I grew up " helping " my mom in the kitchen and in the process learning what all the instructions in cookbooks meant . But it also might just be force of habit , in which case about all you could do would be to go over and cook for ( or with ) him . Maybe if you helped him get into a good habit , he would be more likely to continue with it . Otherwise , I do n't see that there 's much of anything you can do . If he is n't motivated to change his habits to save for his trip , you ca n't make him be .
end question
start question
What does " average revenue growth " over multiple periods of time mean ?
unfortunately , I believe it means arithmetic average , but I agree with you that geometric rate of return would let you find the 10 yr number given the first , where the arithmetic wo n't .
If your question is truly just What is good growth ? Is there a target return that 's accepted as good ? I assumed 8 % ( plus transaction fees ) . Then I 'd have to point out that the <URL> since 1900 . You can buy an S&amp;P ETF for .05 % / yr expense . If your goal is to lag the S&amp;P by 1.7 % / yr over the long term , you can use a 85/15 mix of S&amp;P and cash , sleep well at night , and avoid wasting any time picking stocks .
<URL> has this definition of duration : The duration number is a complicated calculation involving present value , yield , coupon , final maturity and call features . Fortunately for investors , this indicator is a standard data point provided in the presentation of comprehensive bond and bond mutual fund information . The bigger the duration number , the greater the interest-rate risk or reward for bond prices . As for Yield Type , I suspect C would be Coupon bonds while M would be bonds that the interest would be paid at Maturity .
First and foremost you need to be aware of what you are comparing . In this case , HSBC as traded on the NYSE exchange is not common shares , but an <URL> ( American Depository Receipt ) with a 5:1 ratio from the actual shares . So for most intents and purposes owning one ADR is like owning five common shares . But for special events like dividends , there may be other considerations , such as the depository bank ( the institution that created the ADR ) may take a percentage . Further , given that some people , accounts or institutions may be required to invest in a given country or not , there may be some permanent price dislocation between the shares and the ADR , which can further lead to discrepancies which are then highlighted by the seeming difference in dividends .
unfortunately , I believe it means arithmetic average , but I agree with you that geometric rate of return would let you find the 10 yr number given the first , where the arithmetic wo n't .
As an investor , I try to interpret the suits as an attempt to in some way influence the actions of the company - and not , usually , as a serious legal threat ( or as likely to lead to serious legal consequences ) . My ( shallow ) understanding ( as a non-lawyer ) is that the requirements for a lawsuit to be filed as class-action suit are ( relatively speaking ) easier to meet when the company is publicly traded - the shareholders are more easily described as a " class " . So it 's more common for lawsuits that involve stock holders for large , publicly traded companies to be registered as class action suits . Class action suits include a requirement for some advertising and notifications ( so all members of the class become aware of the suit , and can decide whether to participate ) . So , these types of suits can be started with various goals in mind , goals which might be achieved without the suit ever going anywhere - including to gain some publicity for a particular point of view , or to put pressure on the company to perform particular actions . In most cases , though , they are the result of misunderstandings between the various parties with an interest in how the company is run - shareholders , directors and/or executive officers . For most cases , the result of the suit is a more in depth sharing of information between the parties involved , and possibly a change in the plans/actions of the company ; the legal technicalities differ from case to case , and , often , the legal consequences are minor .
QE2 will mean that there are about $ 500 billion dollars in existence which were n't there before . These dollars will all be competing with the existing dollars for real goods and services , so each dollar will be worth a little less , and prices will rise a little . This is inflation . You can probably expect 1.5 % -2 % annual inflation for the US dollar over the next several years ( <URL> in the aggregate , anyway ) . This is in terms of US-based goods and services . QE2 will also reduce the amount of other currencies you can get for the same dollar amount . The extent to which this will occur is less clear , in part because other currencies are also considering quantitative easing . Your long-term savings should probably not be in cash anyway , because of the low returns ; this will probably affect you far more than the impact of quantitative easing . As for your savings which do remain in cash , what you should do with them depends on how you plan to dispose of them . The value of a currency is usually pretty stable in terms of the local economy 's output of goods and services - it 's the value in international trade which tends to fluctuate wildly . If you keep your savings in the same currency you plan to spend them in , they should be able to maintain their value decently well in the intermediate term .
Every 401 ( k ) has managers to make the stock choices . They all have different rates . You want to see that fidelity or Vangard is handling your 401 ( k ) . ( and I am sure others ) If you have a mega bank managing your funds or an insurance company odds are you are paying way to high management fees . So find out , the management fees should be available should be less than 1 % . They can get as high as 2 % ... Ouch
I think your understanding is correct as far as you describe , but you do n't mention a critical detail to me . You also imply some penalty details for early withdrawal / cancellation but you do n't state those terms in detail . Where and when is the interest paid ? Does it go into the same CD for compounding ? Does it get paid to another account ? The description does say that it is priced at par , so we at least know that the interest does n't have to be stuck unpaid within the CD until maturity , but it also means you do n't necessarily get compounding at the CD rate . Without knowing where the interest goes , and if it 's available for compounding , be careful in how you compare it to other CDs / savings accounts . A compoundable structure might be a better option , even at a lower APY .
You understood it pretty right . Every fiscal year ( which runs from April 6 year Y to April 5 year Y +1 ) , you can deposit a total GBP15k ( this number is subject to an annual increase by HMRC ) into your ISAs . You can open 2 new ISA every year but the amount deposited to those ISAs shall not excess GBP15k in total . From the 2016/17 tax year some ISAs now permit you to replace any funds you have withdrawn , without using up your allowance . It used to be that if you deposited GBP15K and then withdrew GBP5K , you could not pay in to that ISA again within that tax year as you had already used your full allowance . Under new Flexible ISA rules this would be allowed providing you replace the funds in the same ISA account and within the same tax year ( strongly recommend that you check the small prints related to your account to make sure this is he case ) . Any gains and losses on the investments held in the ISA accounts are for you to take . i.e. . If you make investment gains of GBP5K this does not reduces your allowance . You will still be able to deposit GBP15k ( or whatever HMRC increases that number to ) in the following year . You are also allowed to consolidate your ISAs . You can ask bank A to transfer the amount held into an ISA with bank held with bank B . This is usually done by filling a special form with the bank that will held the money post transactions . Again here be very careful . DO NOT withdraw the money to transfer it yourself as this would count against the GBP15K limit . Instead follow the procedures from the bank . Finally if you do n't use your allowance for a given year , you can not use it during the following year . i.e. if you do n't deposit the GBP15K this year , then you can not deposit GBP30K next year . NB : I used the word " deposit " . It does not matter to HMRC if the money get invested or not . If you are in a rush on April 4th , just make sure the money is wired into the ISA account by the 5th . No need to rush and make bad investment decision . You can invest it later . Hope it helps
Can anyone explain what each of them mean and how they 're different from each other ? Buy To Open When you " buy to open " , you are purchasing an option and opening a new position . Sell To Open Covered When you " sell to open " , you are creating a brand new options contract and selling it . " Covered " means that you have assets in your account to satisfy the terms of the options contract . A " covered call " is a call option for which you own shares of the underlying stock that you will sell to the buyer at the option 's strike price if he exercises the option . Buy To Close If you previously made a " sell to open " trade to create a new position , and you want to close the position , you can buy back the option . Sell To Close If you previously made a " buy to open " trade , you can " sell to close " which will sell back your option and close your position . In summary : " open " means you 're creating a new position " close " means you 're closing an existing position " covered " means you have the underlying asset ( cash or stock ) to satisfy the option if it is exercised
According to the <URL> : One basis point is equal to 1/100th of 1 % , or 0.01 % ( 0.0001 ) Thus , if S&amp;P charges 6.25 basis points to rate a bond and the bond is $ 100 million , this will cost you $ 62,500 . ( I 'm not sure you can actually issue a bond as a not-super-wealthy individual , but I suppose there 's nothing stopping you from trying )
Running a fiscal deficit means a government is spending more money than it is taking in as taxes , fees , penalties , fines , etc , with the extra money that is being spent being borrowed by selling bonds to willing buyers . Interest paid to said buyers is another government expense in future years , and of course , the bonds must ultimately be redeemed and the buyers paid off . The buyers of the bonds must have some confidence that they will get the interest they have been promised as well as be paid off ultimately . As the government 's indebtedness increases , buyers are likely to demand higher interest rates as inducements to buy the bonds . And so it goes ...
When the government and the media report inflation , they are just reporting the annualized rate . If you calculated the compounded value over any length of time it becomes very scary . Also this is why we all have heard stories from older people about normal items costing virtually nothing 40 or 50 years ago . <URL> article explains the compounding effect pretty well .
<URL> has the definition of 1/100th of a percentage point . So , 8.75 percent is 875 basis points for one example . A quarter of one percent would be 25 basis points for another example .
How do the mint set the value ? Surely it can not be a value plucked from the sky . Actually , that 's exactly how it is set - plucked from the sky . Not by the mint , though , by Congress ( in the case of the US , similarly in other countries ) . The US mint merely executes orders given by the US Congress and signed into law by the US President . For example , the wildly popular <URL> coin is authorized by the <URL> . The act specifies the denomination ( $ 1 in this case ) , the metal composition ( 99.9 % pure silver , in this case ) and the visual appearance . See <URL> . ALL the US coins that are minted - are minted exactly <URL> , and that includes the denomination . Precious metal coins are not intended for circulation , but rather for collectors . Thus , the denomination does n't correspond to the coins ' real ( intrinsic ) value - the actual value of the metal is significantly higher than the denomination of the coin ( with the notable exception of the Canadian <URL> series ) . Furthermore , what does the value imply to the bearer ? Is it redeemable for $ 25 at any time ? Yes , they 're legal tender . Obviously it would be ridiculous to do that since the metal content worth much more than the denominated value . It has also been set as a legal precedent that payment with these coins can not be taken at face value , but rather at their real ( metal content ) value , <URL> .
No , the deadline is for existing LLC/C-Corp to chose to be taxed as a S-Corp for the tax year 2013 . You have n't form a corporation at all , so its irrelevant for you . Once you do form your corporation ( i.e. : file the relevant documents with your State agency responsible - Secretary of State/Department of Corporations etc ) , you have 75 days to have the election made ( by filing <URL> ) . Consider having a consultation with a CPA/EA and a lawyer ( which I 'm neither of ) about whether you really need it . For most cases LLC will suffice . Some professionals are n't allowed to operate under LLC in some states , though .
It reminds me of the Efficient Market Hypothesis , except that just states in its weakest form that the current market price accounts for all information embedded in previous market prices . In other words , people buying today at 42 know it was selling for 40 yesterday , and the patterns and such . To say that stock is memoryless strikes me as not quite right -- to the extent that stocks are valued based on earnings , much of what we infer about future earnings relies on past and present earnings . One obvious counterexample to this " memoryless " claim is bankruptcy . If a stock files bankruptcy , and there is n't enough money to pay senior debt , your shares are worth 0 in perpetuity .
<URL> <URL> , the DIV ( % ) is , as you say , 165 % . However , the dividend yield is 3.73 % at the time of writing . As the Investopedia page referenced above says : The payout ratio is calculated as follows : Annual Dividends per Share / Earnings per Share . which means that the dividends being paid out are more than the earnings of the company : In extreme cases , dividend payout ratios exceed 100 % , meaning more dividends were paid out than there were profits that year . Significantly high ratios are unsustainable . <URL>
They are limiting your total investment in Notes to no more than 10 % of your net worth . Step 1 : determine your net worth Step 2 : Divide this number by 10 The answer is the maximum amount you can put at risk through Lendingclub . The issue is that if you lose all the investment you will not be bankrupted . If it was the other way you could invest all your net worth in Lendingclub by splitting it among 10 + notes . Your net worth is " determined exclusive of the value of your home , home furnishings and automobile . " Which means do n't include the house and the stuff in the house . That means your net worth is the money in the bank ; plus the money invested in stocks , ETFs , and mutual funds ; plus retirement accounts ( 401K , IRA ) ; minus loans ( student , credit cards ) .
end question
start question
Where is " Cash Credit from Unsettled Activity " coming from ?
The Cash Credit from Unsettled Activity occurs because AGG <URL> in the past week . Since you purchased the ETF long enough before the record date ( June 5 , 2013 ) for that trade to settle , you qualified for a dividend . The dividend distribution was $ 0.195217 / share for each of your six shares , for a total credit of $ 1.17 = 6 * 0.195217 . For any ETF , the company 's website should tell you when dividends are issued , usually under a section titled " Distributions " or something similar . If you look in your Fidelity account 's History page , it should show an entry of " Dividend Received " , which confirms that the cash credit is coming from a dividend distribution . You could look up your holdings and see which one ( s ) recently issued a dividend ; in this case , it was AGG .
There are two issues here : arithmetic and psychology . Scenario 1 : You are presently paying an extra $ 500 per month on your student loan , above the minimum payments . Your credit card company offers a $ 4000 cash advance at 0 % for 8 months . So you take the cash advance , pay it toward the student loan , and then instead of paying the extra $ 500 per month toward the student loan you use that $ 500 for 8 months to repay the cash advance . Net result : You pay 0 % interest on the loan , and save roughly 8 months times $ 4000 times the interest on the student loan divided by two . ( I say " divided by two " because it 's not the difference between $ 4000 and zero , but between $ 4000 and the $ 500 you would have been paying off each month . ) Clearly you are better off . If you are NOT presently paying an extra $ 500 on the student loan -- or even if you are but it is a struggle to come up with the money -- then the question becomes , can you reasonably expect to be able to pay off the credit card before the grace period runs out ? Interest rates on credit cards are normally much higher than interest rates on student loans . If you get the cash advance and then ca n't repay it , after 8 months you are paying a very steep interest rate , and anything you saved on the student loan will quickly be lost . What I mean by " psychological " is that you have to have the discipline to really repay the credit card within the grace period . If you 're not very confidant that you can do that , this plan could go bad very quickly . Personally , I 've thought about doing things like this many times -- cash advances against credit cards , home equity loans , etc , all give low-interest money that could be used to pay off a higher-interest debt . But it 's easy to get into trouble doing things like this . It 's easy to say to yourself , Well , I do n't need to put ALL the money toward that other debt , I could keep a thousand or so to buy that big screen TV I really need . Or to fail to pay back the low-interest loan on schedule because other things keep coming up that you spend your money on instead , whether frivolous luxuries or true emergencies . And there 's always the possibility that something will happen to mess up your finances , from a big car repair bill to losing your job . You do n't want to paint yourself into a corner . Finally , maxing out your credit cards hurts your credit rating . The formulas are secret , but I understand that if you use more than half your available credit , that 's a minus . How much it hurts you depends on lots of factors .
The bank will make this even more confusing because they use the terms from their own perspective . From the bank 's perspective ( printed on your statements ) credit : Money into your account ( increases the bank 's liabilities ) debit : Money out of your account ( decrease bank liabilities ) From your perspective : It depends on the nature of the transfer of money , but here are the most common for a personal account . Income into your account : Credit Expenses out of your account : Debit Payment on a loan made for an asset ( house/car ) : Credit for the loan account , debit for the equity account for the car/house/etc . Yes , it 's complicated . Neither credits nor debits are always a + or - . That 's why I agree with the advice of the others here that double-entry accounting is overkill for your personal finances . Note : I simplified the above examples for the purpose of clarity . Technically every transaction in double entry accounting includes both a credit and a debit ( hence the " double " in the name ) . In fact , sometimes a transaction involves more than one credit or debit , but always at least one of each . Also , this is for EACH party . So any transaction between you and your bank involves at least FOUR debits and/or credits when all involved are considered .
Yes , this is restricted by law . In plain language , you can find it on the IRS website ( under the heading " When Can a Retirement Plan Distribute Benefits ? " ) : 401 ( k ) , profit-sharing , and stock bonus plans Employee elective deferrals ( and earnings , except in a hardship distribution ) -- the plan may permit a distribution when you : • terminate employment ( by death , disability , retirement or other severance from employment ) ; • reach age 59 1/2 ; or • suffer a hardship . Employer profit-sharing or matching contributions -- the plan may permit a distribution of your vested accrued benefit when you : • terminate employment ( by death , disability , retirement or other severance from employment ) ; • reach the age specified in the plan ( any age ) ; or • suffer a hardship or experience another event specified in the plan . Form of benefit - the plan may pay benefits in a single lump-sum payment as well as offer other options , including payments over a set period of time ( such as 5 or 10 years ) or a purchased annuity with monthly lifetime payments . Source : <URL> If you want to actually see it in the law , check out 26 USC 401 ( k ) ( 2 ) ( B ) ( i ) , which lists the circumstances under which a distribution can be made . You can get the full text , for example , here : <URL> I 'm not sure what to say about the practice of the company that you mentioned in your question . Maybe the law was different then ?
Many companies that contract their employees use a multiplier of 2x when relating what they need to charge compared to what they can pay . If the employee makes 50K a year , then they have to charge $ 50 dollars an hour . Yes that math is correct . That difference covers the cost of benefits ( both required and optional ) , overhead for management and support staff , plus equipment and utilities , and of course profit . Some of these costs are fixed : a family health policy from insurance company x is the same for a minimum wage worker , and the CEO . Some are based on a percentage of salary , others are a percentage of salary with a ceiling : social security and medicare . These multipliers are used contract wide or maybe even company wide so they are averages . It will cost the company in true dollars more than just the bump in salary , but the last dollar is not as expensive as the first dollar . This is why having a team split 40 hours of overtime a week is probably cheaper than hiring a new employee .
<URL> owns NASDAQ , a <URL> . It is a corporation , and is listed on the NASDAQ as <URL> . It makes money by : They charge each company to list their stock in their market . They charge for transaction that is taking place on their exchange server They may be offering other financial or other listing ( or IPO ) related services in a package deal with contracted third parties . <URL> NASDAQ also charges for market data services , found in the <URL> . Other information about the fees charged by NYSE and NASDAQ may be found in the Investopedia article <URL> .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
There 's no rule of thumb -- people get ripped all of the time on trade-ins or when they sell cars to the dealer . I think with used car negotiations , demand for the car is more important than their cost . If you 're talking a 2007 Kia , there will be lots of room . If it 's a 2009 Honda , they wo n't even discuss price . In terms of negotiations , you 'll only get the best price if you 're willing to walk away at most dealers . I usually pick 2-3 candidate cars at different lots and show up on the last day of the month . If it 's busy , look at the wall and find the # 1 salesman and be a pain in the butt . Refuse to listen to the 4-square speil and walk away slowly if he does n't negotiate . When I was in high school , my dad almost ran over a car salesman who literally jumped out in front of the car as we were leaving . My dad got his price and signed the contract right in the car .
The difference is the lock-in . :-) An RRSP is contributed-to when you feel like it , and money can be removed under various circumstances ( including the home-buyers program ) . A locked-in plan is often the result of a pension conversion upon leaving a place of employment . When I left a company , I had three options for my pension . Leave it , transfer it to a receiving pension plan , or convert it to a Locked-in RSP . The premise here , at least in part , is that given there are various tax advantages to the money growing tax-free , you have therefore allowed yourself to be limited in your withdrawal options . Hope that helps
Each of those is a network . Merchants displaying their logos - participate in their network and will accept cards that bear the same logo . Most merchants participate in more than one network . Discover is mostly used in the US , while Visa , Mastercard and American Express are more widely spread in the world ( Amex less , Visa and MC are much more widely spread ) . In addition to being widely spread in the US , Discover is accepted everywhere where UnionPay is accepted ( mostly in China ) and Diners Club ( mostly in EMEA ) . Advantages/disadvantages ? You 'll have to compare specific cards , but if you 're a traveler in the world - then Discover will probably not be as appealing as Visa or Mastercard .
When there is a difference between the two ... no trading occurs . Let 's look at an example : Investor A , B , C , and D all buy/sell shares of company X. Investor A wants to sell 10 shares at $ 20 a share ( Ask price $ 20 x10 ) . Investor B wants to buy 15 shares at $ 10 a share ( Bid price $ 10 x15 ) . Since the bid price and ask price are different , no sale is made . Next Investor C comes along and wants to sell 5 shares at $ 14 ( Ask price $ 14 x5 ) . Still no sale . Investor D comes along and wants to buy 5 shares for $ 14 each . So a sale is finally made . At this point , the stock quote moves to $ 14 . The ask price is $ 20 x10 and the bid price is $ 10 x15 . No further trading will occur until another investor is willing to buy at $ 20 or sell at $ 10 . Another discussion of this topic is shown on <URL> .
Kudos to you on having money in a retirement account as early as after college . Many people do n't start investing towards retirement until far to late and compound interest makes a major difference in those early years . Ideally , neither withdraw nor borrow from these accounts . Withdrawing from your 403b will incur a 10 % penalty unless you are over the minimum age on top of the normal tax on that income . With a 401K loan you 're putting yourself at risk if you run into a situation where you ca n't pay the loan back of incurring the same penalties as an early withdrawal . <URL> covers the concerns well . In general , you want to view your retirement money as untouchable until the distributions need to start coming in retirement . It 's your future in there . Of course , this does n't help the short term cash need . Do you have money in an emergency fund somewhere ? Could a relative loan you money ? Can you move to a less expensive place in advance and squirrel away some of what would have been your rent cash ? Can you cut back to bare necessities and do the same ? Do you have some nice stuff sitting around that you could sell to make up that needed cash ? Will your current employer pay out unused vacation or are you getting any severance from this situation ? Will you qualify for unemployment ? I other words , think about what you would do to get the money if your retirement accounts were n't there . Then do that - as long as it 's legal and does n't involve running up debt on high interest lines of credit - instead of borrowing against your future .
There is no difference in taxation in India if you transfer every month or bulk . If you use specialized remittance services from leading Indian Banks , there would be little difference in fees . Assuming you are keeping the funds in NRE account in India and hold it in GBP , you get a slight better rate of interest that what you would get in UK . The interest would not be taxable in India , however it would be in UK . If you convert the funds at hold it in NRE , Rupee account , you would get still better rate of interest . However you are taking the Fx risk when you try and convert this back to GBP incase you decide to stay on . There are no right or wrong answers Edit : There is no limit on the amount of funds earned as NRE that can be got into India tax free . There is a time limit of 7 Years to get the funds back to India tax free . From a tax point of view if you transfer into NRE account its easy . If you transfer into Normal Savings account you would need some paperwork .
It 's a fake ! Do n't fall for it or you 'll regret it ! This is another classic example of what is called a phishing attack . <URL> . The email in question was not from MasterCard , your bank , or your credit card company . A phishing attack is a form of social engineering or pretexting where you are led to believe through an official-looking email that the notice is from a legitimate source when , in fact , it is not . Cyber-criminals and online organized crime try to use phishing attacks to trick you into revealing your credit card number , your bank account information , your Social Security Number ( SSN , United States ) or Social Insurance Number ( SIN , Canada ) or any other kind of personal information . Your bank , credit card company , or other financial account provider should never ask you in an email to visit their site through a link provided in the email . Never trust a hyperlink provided in an email -- odds are good it leads to a fake site created by criminals ! When in doubt about such a message , do n't click anything . Contact your financial service provider by phone to inquire , using the phone number on your card or on a previous bill . Do n't call any phone numbers in the message .
There are a few reasons , particularly for businesses . The first is opportunity cost . That chunk of money they have could be used to get higher returns somewhere else . If they can borrow from a bank at low interest rates to finance their ongoing operations , they can use their cash to get a higher return somewhere else . The second is credit rating . For public companies , ratings companies give high emphasis to companies with large reserves . This strengthens their ability to pay back the loan should it become necessary . A good credit rating in turn let 's the company borrow money at lower rates . When a company can borrow money at low rates , it circles back to the first point where they can now put their reserves to better use . The third is leverage . Companies can use the cash they have built up to leverage into a larger investment . Assuming the investment works out , it will pay for the cost of borrowing over time . For instance let 's say I have $ 1 million to invest . I can pay all cash for a $ 1 million apartment building or I can leverage that into a $ 3 million building . Assuming I run it well , the tenants will pay for the cost of borrowing $ 2 million and at the end of the term I 'll be left with my $ 3 million building .
US bank deposits over $ 10K only need to be reported to FinCEN ( Financial Crimes Enforcement Network - a bureau of the US Department of Treasury ) if the deposits are made in cash or other money instruments where the source can not be traced ( money orders , traveler checks , etc ) . Regular checks and wires do n't need to be reported because there is a clear bank trail of where the money came from . If your family member is giving you money personally ( not from a business ) from a bank account which is outside of the US , then you only need to <URL> . Note , you would need to report that regardless of whether the money was deposited into your US bank account , or paid directly to your credit cards on your behalf , and there are stiff penalties if you play games to try to avoid reporting requirements . Neither deposit method would trigger any taxable income for the scenario you described .
Banks make money by charging fees on products and charging interest on loans . If you keep close to a $ 0 average balance in your account , and they are n't charging you any fees , then yes , your account is not profitable for them . That 's ok . It 's not costing them much to keep you as a customer , and some day you may start keeping a balance with them or apply for a loan . The bank is taking a chance that you will continue to be a loyal customer and will one day become profitable for them . Just be on the lookout for a change in their fee structure . Sometimes banks drop customers or start charging fees in cases like yours .
You no longer can . Experian ceased its Canadian operations in 2009 . At the time , Experian Canada had the following posted on their website : Effective April 17 , 2009 , Experian will unfortunately discontinue its Canadian consumer credit bureau operations as a result of the very difficult economic environment in Canada and around the world , which Experian believes will persist for some time . This means that as of April 18 , 2009 , Experian will no longer be providing credit reports out of its Canadian database regarding any consumer in Canada . We will continue to respond to ongoing consumer requests for copies of credit reports , as well as handle disputed items and other consumer assistance until April 17 . After that date and upon completion of any disputes in process , all consumer information will be deleted from our database and will no longer be available to consumers or creditors . If you have not previously obtained your credit report from us or initiated a dispute on your Experian credit report , you may wish to contact one of the other credit bureaus for assistance . This message is no longer on their website , but <URL> still have the message available for viewing .
Transfer of Millions of USD in and out is not possible for Individuals . There are limits on how much money an individual Indian Ordinary Citizen can send or receive . If an corporate wants to send money , depending on the services offered , they would have to initiate a SWIFT transaction . It typically takes 2-3 days for settlement of International wire .
Yes it is very likely that you will have different credit scores for the different companies . keep in mind the different companies have different algorithms . Also some creditors may not report information to the different companies . It is possible that a mistake does n't appear in all the companies , thus giving different results . Also remember that your score can change everyday , because some of the numbers used are a snapshot . Your credit utilization changes with every charge , and every payment ; but is only reported to the credit agencies monthly . If you have multiple cards , loans , lines of credit , the utilization rate might change several times a month .
end question
start question
Do high interest rates lead to higher bond yields or lower ?
It is important to distinguish between cause and effect as well as the supply ( saving ) versus demand ( borrowing ) side of money to understand the relationship between interest rates , bond yields , and inflation . What is mean by " interest rates " is usually based on the officially published rates determined by the central bank and is referenced to the overnight lending rate for meeting reserve requirements . In practice , what the means is , ( for example ) in the United States the Federal Reserve will have periodic meetings to determine whether to leave this rate alone or to raise or lower the rate . The new rate is generally determined by their assessment of current and forecast national and global economic conditions and factors in the votes of the various Regional Federal Reserve Presidents . If the Fed anticipates economic weakness they will tend to lower and keep rates lower , while when the economy seems to be overheated the tendency will be to raise rates . Bond yields are also based on the expectation of future economic conditions , but as determined by market participants . At times the market will actually " lead " the Fed in bidding bond prices up or down , while at other times it will react after the Fed does . However , ignoring the varying time lag the two generally will track each other because they are really the same thing . The only difference is the participants which are collectively determining what the rates/yields are . The inverse relationship between interest rates and inflation is the main reason for fluctuating rates in the first place . The Fed will tend to raise rates to try to slow inflation , and lower rates when it feels inflation is too low and economic growth should be stimulated . Likewise , when the economy is doing poorly there is both little inflationary pressure ( driving interest rates down both in terms of what savers can accept to keep ahead of inflation and at ) and depressed levels of borrowing ( reduced demand for money , driving down rates to try to balance supply and demand ) , and the opposite is true when the economy is booming . Bond yields are thus positively correlated to inflation because during periods of high inflation savers wo n't want to invest in bonds that do n't provide them with an acceptable inflation adjusted yield . But high interest rates tend to have the effect or reining in inflation because it gets more costly for borrowers and thus puts a damper on new economic activity . So to summarize , high interest rates are positively correlated to high bond yields because the two are basically the same thing ( one determined by central banks , the other by the market ) interest rates are negatively correlated to inflation because higher rates reduce demand for money ( borrowing ) and lower rates increase demand for money , which in turn ( ceteris parabus ) causes a lagging decrease or increase in inflation inflation and yields are positively correlated because as inflation rises or falls , yields tend to rise or fall to keep supply of savings balanced to match demand .
You must consider the different levels of risk associated with each loan . When the bank loans you money , it does so based on a high degree of information about your financial situation ( through your credit report + additional information gathered at the time of granting your request ) . It feels quite confident that you will repay them , and therefore considers you to be low risk . In order to make a profit off of all its low risk clients , the bank only needs to charge a small rate of interest - competitive with the market but enough to cover the losses from clients who will default . When you loan money through a peer-to-peer program , you are at two distinct disadvantages from the bank : ( 1 ) Your loan portfolio will not be diversified ; that is , you may have only a single person or a small handful of people owing you money . Any catastrophic event in their lives may wipe out their loan to you . Whereas the bank can play the averages with a broader client base . ( 2 ) You have less information , and ultimately less ( effective ) power to reclaim your losses . Would you feel confident walking behind the desk at a bank today , and deciding whether to approve someone 's loan based on the information that the bank 's back-end has already determined is necessary to make that decision ? Now how about when you are doing it on your own ? Because of this , you take on more risk from a peer-to-peer loan than a bank takes on from you . That 's why the person is willing ( or , required due to market availability ) to pay a higher rate ; they know they are higher risk . That does n't mean this is a bad idea , just that there is a specific reason that the difference in rates exists , and it implies that you should consider carefully whether the risks outweigh the benefits . Note that the concept of taking a buy/sell position on two theoretically identical assets while earning a net profit at no risk is known as ' arbitrage ' . Arbitrage situations rarely exist , and never for long . Whenever you see a position that appears to be arbitrage , consider what might make it not so . ie : you could buy inventory in location A , and sell it at 10 % higher margin in location B - but have you considered transportation , carrying costs , and interest for the period that you physically held the inventory ? The appearance of arbitrage may ( in my opinion ) be a sign that you have incomplete information .
Mortgage or other interest rates are determined by the banks on cost of funds , risk and operating cost . The Fed raises money from the markets by issuing Tresury Bonds at a specified rate . This rate at which it raises money varies depening on the economy . Thus there are 2 rates : the rate at which banks can borrow money from the Fed , which is higher than the rate that the Fed would give banks for excess money deposited with them . So if the cost of borrowing is less , banks can borrow this money from the Fed and loan it to individuals at a slightly higher rate that would cover their costs plus a small profit . The risk associated with a mortgage is less , and hence these would be cheaper , then say a personal loan . If the cost of borrowing goes up , the mortgage rate will go up . If the cost of borrowing money goes down , the cost would come down . Banks may not always borrow money to lend . If they have existing money , they can either park it with the Fed for a lower interest rate , or loan it to individuals for a rate higher than what they would have received from the Fed .
Good question ! Bankrate.com has tools to find what you are after , and as far as I know it is pretty comprehensive . <URL> Personally , the rates I saw were around 1.5 % , and it is n't worth the effort for me to switch for an extra half a percent . There is also happens to be an article on there about the decline of free checking accounts . Coincidence or fate ?
At the end of the year , the mutual fund company sends you a statement like any other investment and it has a bunch of boxes that you copy into your tax return software . Then you just check the box that says ' tax-exempt ' and you 're done .
There are two components of option valuation , the value that 's " in the money " and the " time value . " In the case of the $ 395 put , that option was already in the money and it will move less than the stock price by a bit as there will still be some time value there . $ 22.52 is intrinsic value ( the right word for ' in the money ' ) and the rest is time . The $ 365 strike is still out of the money , but as jldugger implied , the chance of it going through that strike is better as it 's $ 6.66 closer . Looking at the options chain gives you a better perspective on this . If Apple went up $ 20 Monday , and down $ 20 Tuesday , these prices would be higher as implied volatility would also go higher . Now , I 'd hardly call a drop of under 2 % " tanking " but on the otherhand , I 'd not call the 25 % jump in the option price skyrocketing . Options do this all the time . Curious what prompted the question , are you interested in trading options ? This stock in particular ?
In the US , they 're usually not . The coupon payments from bonds underlying the ETF are usually paid out as distributions to investors . <URL> , as well as <URL> state that many bond ETF 's pay coupon payments out as distributions on a monthly basis ( quoted portion is from Investopedia ) : Bond ETFs pay out interest through a monthly dividend , while any capital gains are paid out through an annual dividend . ETF distributions are n't normally reinvested in the underlying fund automatically because this would incur additional commissions . Some brokers offer an option to reinvest distributions , but the availability of this option depends on the broker , not the fund , so you wo n't find information about it in the prospectus . For example , Vanguard states on <URL> that investors looking to reinvest distributions from Vanguard ETF 's should ask their brokerage firm if this is an option . <URL> and <URL> also state that for individual investors , distribution reinvestment varies on a per-broker basis .
Just to confirm , you do n't pay interest when holding a bond , the issuer of the bond pays you interest . The idea of calculating " present value " is as you suggest . You discount future payments using an appropriate rate . These future payments include both the coupon payments you receive through the life of the bond and the principal repayment at the maturity of the bond - each should be discounted from the due date of the payment to today 's date . A typical rate to use would be the interest you yourself could earn by investing elsewhere ( this gives you some idea of how much it would cost to get those payments another way ) , or perhaps some standard rate , for example the interbank rates such as LIBOR or FEDFUNDS .
The long term view you are referring to would be over 30 to 40 years ( i.e. your working life ) . Yes in general you should be going for higher growth options when you are young . As you approach retirement you may change to a more balanced or capital guaranteed option . As the higher growth options will have a larger proportion of funds invested into higher growth assets like shares and property , they will be affected by market movements in these asset classes . So when there is a market crash like with the GFC in 2007/2008 and share prices drop by 40 % to 50 % , then this will have an effect on your superannuation returns for that year . I would say that if your fund was invested mainly in the Australian stock market over the last 7 years your returns would still be lower than what they were in mid-2007 , due to the stock market falls in late 2007 and early 2008 . This would mean that for the 7 year time frame your returns would be lower than a balanced or capital guaranteed fund where a majority of funds are invested in bonds and other fixed interest products . However , I would say that for the 5 and possibly the 10 year time frames the returns of the high growth options should have outperformed the balanced and capital guaranteed options . See examples below : First State Super AMP Super Both of these examples show that over a 5 year period or less the more aggressive or high growth options performed better than the more conservative options , and over the 7 year period for First State Super the high growth option performed similar to the more conservative option . Maybe you have been looking at funds with higher fees so in good times when the fund performs well the returns are reduced by excessive fees and when the fund performs badly in not so good time the performance is even worse as the fees are still excessive . Maybe look at industry type funds or retail funds that charge much smaller fees . Also , if a fund has relatively low returns during a period when the market is booming , maybe this is not a good fund to choose . Conversely , it the fund does n't perform too badly when the market has just crashed , may be it is worth further investigating . You should always try to compare the performance to the market in general and other similar funds . Remember , super should be looked at over a 30 to 40 year time frame , and it is a good idea to get interested in how your fund is performing from an early age , instead of worrying about it only a few years before retirement .
Mortgage rates tend to track the <URL> on the 10-year Treasury note . The <URL> , TNX , is a security directly related to this rate . Divide the CBOE price of TNX by 10 to get the yield . One can also track the 10Y T-Note yield at <URL> using ticker symbol ( ^ TNX ) .
Your title question , Who could afford a higher premium who could n't afford a higher monthly payment ? , contrasts premium with monthly payment , but those are the same thing . In the body of your question , you list monthly payment and deductible , which is entirely different . The deductible is paid only if you need that much medical care in any one year . Most years a person in good health pays little because of the deductible . Thus , the higher deductible options offer catastrophic health insurance without giving much in the way of reimbursement for regular medical expenses . Note - the original question has been edited since .
I 'm assuming by " bad credit " you mean low credit score or negative marks on your credit report . If so - yes , most definitely . Not only that , the IRS can garnish your salary and put a lien on your property , and these also appear on the credit report and affect your credit score .
As I 'm sure you are reading in Hull 's classic , the basic valuation of bonds depends on the chance of entity defaulting on those bonds . Let 's start with just looking at the US . The United States has a big advantage over corporations in issuing debt as it also prints the same currency that the debt is denominated in . This makes it much easier not to default on your debt as you can always print more money to pay it . Printing too much currency would cause inflation lowering the value of debt , but this would also lower the value of US corporate debt as well . So you can think of even the highest rated corporate bonds as having the same rate as government debt plus a little extra due to the additional default risk of the corporation . The situation with other AA rated governments is more complicated . Most of those governments have debt denominated in their local currency as well so it may seem like they should all have similar rates . However , some governments have higher and some actually have lower rates than the United States . Now , as above , some of the difference is due to the possible need of printing too much currency to cover the debt in crisis and now that we have more than one country to invest in the extra risk of international money flowing out of the country 's bonds . However , the bigger difference between AA governments rates depends more on money flow , central banks and regulation . Bonds are still mostly freely traded instruments that respond to supply and demand , but this supply and demand is heavily influenced by governments . Central banks buy up large portions of the debt raising demand and lowering rates . Regulators force banks to hold a certain amount of treasuries perhaps inflating demand . Finally , to answer your question the United States has some interesting advantages partially just due to its long history of stability , controlled inflation and large economy making treasuries valuable as one of the lowest risk investments . So its rates are generally on the low end , but government manipulation can still mean that it is not necessarily the lowest .
Yes , you pay interest , but the interest is applied to the price of the underlying shorted not the amount of cash proceeds of the sale since the underlying is what 's borrowed not underlying . The interest will increase the value of the short liability and will contribute to a diminishing maintenance margin . The cash is posted as collateral , so the net of interest charged by borrowing the underlying less the interest received from the cash collateral is what 's paid . Sometimes , when there is no demand to short a particular underlying , and a broker passes these rates through less a fee , the loan balance can actually decrease because the interest received from the cash collateral exceeds the interest paid on the underlying . While interest is charged and applied daily between brokers , the broker may charge this on nearly any basis they please .
US income tax works this way : it is a marginal tax , i.e. the tax is calculated from each additional dollar of income , according to the following rule : there 's a number of " brackets " , and once you income is in certain bracket , the additional dollars are taxed according to this bracket , until you have enough income to go to higher bracket . Current brackets are , for single person : <URL> This means that if you earned $ 150000 , you are in 28 % bracket , and so you 'll pay 28 % income tax , or 1400 , on additional 5000 of income . If you earned only $ 50000 , you would be in 25 % bracket , so you would pay only 1250 . In fact , it 's more complicated since you can take various deductions before your income is considered for the purpose of taxation , and it can take you to different tax bracket sometimes , if you are close to the margin , so if you want to know the real tax , you better use some specialized software or talk to an accountant . But for the purpose of quick explanation , that 's how it works .
between two people purchasing a house together , one with good and one with bad credit , will having both persons on the loan raise the interest rates . If the house deed is on both names , generally the Bank would insist the loan should also be on both of your names . This to ensure that Bank has enough leverage to recover the house in case of default . If one of you has bad credit , bank would raise the interest rate , assumption that bad credit would drag the good credit and force him to some activities / actions that could stretch the finance of one with good credit . If timely payments are not made , it would make your good credit to bad . If the house deed is on only on your name and you can get the loan on your own , this would be a better position . If the house deed is on only on your name and you would like to loan to be on both names , then the positive side is credit score of the person with bad credit would start showing improvement over period , provided both of you make timely payments . As pointed out by keshlam , there are enough question where people have entered into agreement without deciding what would happen if they separate . There is no right / wrong answer . It would be best you decide how it would be with respect to the ownership in the house and with respect to payments and if in worst case you part ways , how the settlement should look like .
Duration is the time weighted average maturity , more or less . The value of the ETF will drop as a function of the duration times the change in rates . For example , if the duration is 8 years , a .1 % increase in rates will cause a drop of .8 % .
After the initial public offering , the company can raise money by selling more stock ( equity financing ) or selling debt ( e.g. borrowing money ) . If a company 's stock price is high , they can raise money with equity financing on more favorable terms . When companies raise money with equity financing , they create new shares and dilute the existing shareholders , so the number of shares outstanding is not fixed . Companies can also return money to shareholders by buying their own equity , and this is called a <URL> . It 's best for companies to repurchase their shared when their stock price is low , but " <URL> " The management of a company typically likes a rising stock price , so their stock options are more valuable and they can justify bigger pay packages .
Exchange rates are not calculated from anything . They are based on the price that someone is willing to pay to buy that currency . It 's a purely market-driven thing . Interest rates do have an effect on exchange rates , since high interest rates make a currency more desirable , but it 's not based on any kind of formula .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
end question
start question
How to plan in a budget for those less frequent but mid-range expensive buys ?
You would simply plan for misc . expenses in your budget , and allocate a small amount to this every time you do your budget , eventually building up a pool of money that you can then use whenever you have to make a purchase such as that .
One reason that a bond can be significantly less than face value is because people are seeking better investments elsewhere , so for example if a bond does n't mature for another 10 years , that 20 % increase in face value is n't very attractive when compared to say leaving your money in the stock market for 10 years . Another reason could be that the credit-worthiness of the issuer has collapsed and people expect that there is a fairly good chance they are not going to make the payment . This could be what you would see if for example it was a one year time until maturity , but it has a value of 40 % of the face value . There is a risk , because they can simply not pay . For example people who bought Greek bonds .
Your credit utilization is calculated on your closing date when your statement is posted , and only then does it affect your credit score . Also , utilization affects your score in <URL> , which means that if you have high credit utilization one month , e.g. when you buy tickets home , but low credit utilization the next month , your credit score will reflect the most recent utilization . You should n't necessarily stress about the months where you have high utilization ; just keep your utilization lower the next month . If you still want to keep your utilization low every month , <URL> , if you can afford it . Be sure to leave some balance on your card on your closing date , however , because 0 % utilization is n't good for your score either . As long as you leave a small balance on the card when your statement is posted , your credit score will reflect a low utilization . If you can also quickly acquire credit limit increases , though , that 's another good way to lower your utilization , as long as it does n't lead you to spend too much .
To clarify . APY will always be an annual number . To calculate your APY you use the formulas below with your APR , the applicable compounding frequency , and duration of an entire year . The more frequent the compounding occurs the greater your yield relative to your rate . When you have a maturity period less than a year , the APY is still calculated based on holding for a full year . Assuming a 0.4 % APR , you will receive 0.4 % for the duration of the CD . Generally bank CDs are compounded daily which will help out a bit . You can roughly calculate your return by ( assuming a $ 1,000 deposit and a 3 month duration ) : On such a short time frame the effects of compounding will be negligible . And the published APY can be largely ignored as you will not be holding the CD for a year , unless you buy another three month CD at the same rate after maturity .
There is not necessarily a direct relationship between the current account - which can either be a surplus or deficit - and the government budget deficit . The current account is a gross measurement of imports versus exports for a country . If a country is importing more goods than it is exporting then it is running a current account deficit . It is running a surplus if it is exporting more goods than it is importing . In the US , the government derives most of its revenue from <URL> : If the US cut off all imports and exports the US government would still receive income because of the US citizens employed inside the country who are still paying income and payroll taxes . If US taxes were based on import/export duties then the US government would be more sensitivity to the current account .
You specify how you want your transaction handled when you sell . I think most of online brokers have that option when you sell online . Here is a definition of " Lot Relief Method " from <URL> Definition of ' Lot Relief Method ' A method of computing the cost basis of an asset that is sold in a taxable transaction . There are five major lot relief methods that can be used for this purpose . They include FIFO ( First-In-First-Out ) , LIFO ( Last-In-First-Out ) , Dollar Value LIFO , Specific ID ( a specific lot of securities or assets are chosen to use for the cost basis ) and Average Cost ( the average cost basis of all securities or assets purchased is used ) .
No . Switzerland is one of the few countries the United States has " totalizaton " agreements with ( not to confuse with tax treaties ) to work around this kind of thing . You can find the list of the agreements <URL> . You can use the years you work in Switzerland to make up for the remaining credits you need to qualify for benefits in the U.S. . When it 's time to retire , you 'll receive a partial U.S. benefit that is proportional to the number of credits you earned in the U.S. . You can learn more about all this <URL> . For other countries , for which the US does n't have totalization agreements , in this scenario you would get no benefits back for the money . So yes , it would be lost .
I do not meet your qualifications but this is what I would do : 1 ) Save an amount that can replace your bike and accessories if it is stolen . Do n't touch it for anything but that . 2 ) Compute an average monthly cost for maintenance items , double that for a couple of months until you have the account built up , then budget that amount every month . If your bike/headlight/front tire , get stolen or broken beyond repair , take it out of the first account . Then your savings priority should be to rebuild that account . I would be a bit alarmed if you have to keep hitting this account for legitimate reasons . When a tire goes flat , or other normal wear and tear item occurs , take it out of the second account . This account should fluctuate regularly , and it is normal . During certain months you may want to increase this amount ( more glass on the street because of outdoor events means more flat tires ) . The same kind of thing holds true for a car . Putting numbers to some figures would help . I think the most alarming thing about your post is that a theft is somewhat ordinary . Yikes !
Look for an individual long-term disability policy that can do a temporary group plan offset in your policy and that otherwise converts to the full coverage desired when you cease to be a group member ( i.e. you resign from the job or are terminated . ) Essentially , such an individual LTD policy acknowledges you may receive benefits as a member of the existing group LTD plan , yet enhances its benefits . The individual plan would only top up ( as opposed to double up ) your disability benefits while you are still a group member , and upgrades when you are no longer a member . I was in a similar situation some years ago . In my case , I had already purchased an individual LTD policy when working as a self-employed IT contractor ; I had no group coverage . But , one of the features I selected for the policy was an annual " future income option " , guaranteeing I could buy more coverage ( without any further medical ) as my income would increase . I took advantage of it from time to time since I was younger and my income was growing quickly . A couple of contract gigs later , I found myself back in a full-time job . The employer enrolled me in their group LTD plan , which was inferior to my individual plan in a number of respects ( the definition of disability , was n't " own occupation " coverage , etc. ) , so I maintained my individual policy alongside . While employed full time , I was again offered the opportunity to purchase additional coverage based on higher income . When I applied for increased benefits , the application form had this question : If you have group coverage , would you accept the addition of a group offset amendment , if required , due to your group coverage in force ? Yes ___ No ___ . Essentially , I needed to accept the group offset amendment which meant , in effect , " We will increase your individual LTD policy benefits , but as long as you are part of your group LTD plan , those benefits will pay first and reduce additional benefits from your individual plan -- until you are no longer part of the group . " When I left that job years later , I contacted my LTD insurer for another increase and also informed them I was no longer covered by the group LTD plan . The group offset amendment was removed from my policy ( I was issued a " Policy Change Rider " confirming that ) and so all the added benefits I 'd applied for converted to " full " benefits on the policy no longer subject to an offset . So , look for an individual LTD policy that will acknowledge ( a ) yes , you are part of a group policy , and this means " offsetting " , but ( b ) more important is that you need a guarantee from the individual LTD policy that when you cease to be a member of the group LTD plan , then your benefits in the individual policy convert to what you previously had in both plans combined . Ask your agent if he inquired about group offsets specifically . IMHO , if your agent does n't specialize in individual LTD insurance and instead is a " one stop shop " , you should consider talking to an agent who knows LTD inside and out .
It is not necessary that the mutual fund pays out the dividend . The money would be used to buy more shares of the same stock or of some other stock depending on overall policy goal of the fund and current allocation of funds . This would increase the NAV of the mutual fund and hence its indirectly comes to you once you sell the mutual fund . The dividend would not be taxable as its not directly paid out .
Contributions to 401k plans have to come from the wages that the employer is paying you , and can not be made from external funds . Many plans will allow for a large percentage to be withheld from a single paycheck or from the remaining paychecks for the current year , and for that time , you can live off the surplus of cash from the sale .
Unfortunately for you credit referencing agencies do n't just record whether you take credit or not but also whether a " hard pull " has been performed on your credit details . A hard pull means that the details were pulled from the agency as part of an application for credit . Because lenders do n't ( have to ) inform credit agencies whether they have accepted you for credit or not a hard pull that is not connected to a loan agreement could be because of a denial of credit or because you refused the offer ; it is impossible to tell . A large number of hard pulls on your credit rating in a short period can look like you were desperate for credit and being turned down by a lot of lenders so looking further afield . The good news is that the effect of a hard pull on your credit rating is pretty much zero after six months , to quote <URL> ( paywalled site ) : Having no recent searches ( applications for credit ) shows that you are not credit hungry and that your existing credit may be sufficient for your needs . The more searches that you have in a 6 month period , the more likely a lender will consider you to be higher risk . note that it mentions " searches " and does not limit it to actually taking the loan . Edit : ( from comments for clarity ) Remember that the ratings agencies know all of your loans and the respective dates and issuers so they can just match the hard pull to the loan . Your credit rating is a mixture of the number of hard pulls , your outstanding credit and a few other factors .
I contacted Vanguard with this question ; they responded with : All fund accounts that hold Admiral ( tm ) Shares are reviewed for eligibility on an annual basis , typically in June . If any of your Admiral Shares fund accounts have balances below the required level at the time of this review , we will notify you by mail so that you 'll have an opportunity to increase the balance . If a fund balance subsequently remains below the required minimum , we will convert your account in that fund to Investor Shares . Conversions are not a taxable event . Your fund balance is solely determined by market value , so if the market value of your position in the fund is below the minimum threshold for Admiral shares ( which is $ 10K or $ 50K , depending on the fund ) when Vanguard reviews your account , they 'll contact you . It does n't matter if the decline in value occurred because you sold shares or because the market moved ; Vanguard will still downgrade you if you do n't top up your position . In terms of taxes , if you sell shares in a non-tax-sheltered account , you may incur capital gains and will therefore pay taxes on that amount , but Vanguard themselves wo n't charge you any fees or penalties when they downgrade you . One more note on the rest of your question . Remember that a mutual fund investment is n't as liquid as a savings account ; you 'll face a delay between selling your shares and the settlement of your funds , so in terms of liquidity , a mutual fund investment is n't a substitute for a savings account . You should always have an emergency fund that covers at least 3-6 months of living expenses set aside that is highly liquid , regardless of your other investments . Also , you 'll face much more volatility with an investment in an equity fund . For longer-term investments , this is n't necessarily a problem , but if you might need these funds for emergencies , you probably do n't want to expose yourself to the risk that when you might need the funds when their value is at a low point .
Hi Alex. I 've been alerted you 're seeking a better answer to this question . ;-) Please accept my apologies for not coming back to this question sooner -- it got buried . : - / No , in general you can not make an early withdrawal penalty-free from a 403 ( b ) account to use towards the purchase of a home . Withdrawals before age 59 1/2 are generally subject to the 10 % early withdrawal penalty , on top of ordinary income tax . Some 403 ( b ) plans may allow for a loan , but the availability and conditions vary by plan . If you 'd consider a loan , you should check with your plan administrator or your plan 's Summary Plan Description -- often available at one 's company intranet or HR web site . ( I do contract work for an HR consulting firm that assists others in building such sites , and SPDs are usually something made available for download in a " Retirement " or " Wealth " section of such web sites . ) Note that a loan from a 403 ( b ) would need to be paid back into the plan over some period of time , e.g. 5 years , though I have come across examples of <URL> <URL> that do permit a longer pay back period of 10 , 15 , even 30 years if the loan is used for a home purchase . But consider this article : <URL> Finally , to your last point : Yes , if you have an IRA , there are rules permitting withdrawal of up to $ 10,000 penalty-free for use towards the purchase of a first home . See page 53 in <URL> . There 's also a good article at <URL> . Such a withdrawal from a traditional IRA remains subject to ordinary income tax . If have a Roth IRA , you can withdraw free of income tax but you need to pay attention to the <URL> . Additional Resources : <URL>
There are certain companies that will let you pay a flat fee per month instead of billing you for consumption . You should call your providers and ask them if they have such an option available ; this way budgeting will be easy . :)
A Budget is different for every person . There are families making $ 40K/yr who will budget to spend it all . But a family making $ 100K of course will have a different set of spending limits for most items . My own approach is to start by tracking every cent . Keep a notebook for a time , 3 months minimum . Note , for homeowners , a full year is what it takes to capture the seasonal expenses . This approach with help you see where the money is going , and adjust accordingly . The typical goal is to spend less than you make , saving X % for retirement , etc. . The most important aspect is to analyze how much money is getting spent on wasteful items . The $ 5 coffee , the $ 10 lunch , the $ 5 - $ 7 magazines , etc. . One can decide the $ 5 coffee is a social event done with a friend , and that 's fine , so long as it 's a mindful decision . I 've watched the person in front of me at the supermarket put 4 magazines down on the counter . If she has $ 20 to burn , that 's her choice . See <URL> for other responses .
To start out with , suppose you have three people : A and B own a house and rent it out to a third person C . In this case C pays rent and A and B each receive or pay ( rent - mortgage ) / 2 , depending on whether the rent covers the mortgage . Your situation is identical , except that B and C are the same person . So the person not living in the house receives or pays ( rent - mortgage ) / 2 and the person living in the house covers the remainder . I hope you can agree on a reasonable rent . :)
Yes , the penalty is the tax you pay on it again when you withdraw the money . The withdrawal of the excess contribution is taxed as your wages ( but no penalty ) . Excess contribution can not be added to the basis or considered " after-tax " ( hence the double taxation ) . Note that allowing you to keep the excess contribution in the plan may lead to disqualifying the plan , so it is likely that the plan administrator will force you to remove the excess contribution if they become aware of it . Otherwise you may end up forcing early 401 ( k ) withdrawal on all of your co-workers . More on <URL> . And <URL> .
One things about psychology - people spend more money when its an abstract concept instead of having cold , hard cash . What does this mean ? People spend more money when they use credit cards for day to day purchases . While I still use a credit card for day to day purchases , there 's a big difference between bringing $ 200 to costco to pay for groceries and laying out 10 $ 20 bills vs swiping a card when you see a number flash on the screen . If you 're truly looking to reduce expenses , keep this in mind .
An <URL> is an increase in the value of an asset that has not been sold . It is , in essence , a " paper profit . " When an asset is sold , it becomes a realized gain . The unrealised gain is recorded in the " Other comprehensive income account " . Here is an example <URL> : A common example of an unrealized gain is the gain in the market value of an investment in the stock of another corporation that is held as an available-for-sale security . The unrealized holding gain is reported on the balance sheet by 1 ) increasing the asset available-for-sale securities , and 2 ) increasing the stockholders ' equity component in accumulated other comprehensive income . Note that the holding gains on available-for-sale securities are not reported on the income statement . But in your case debit balance of 875 does n't suggest any gains but otherwise so will have to check where the discrepancy is . But if it is " unrealized gains " then you can follow the above method .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between a certified check , a cashier 's check , a money order , and a bank draft ?
Many of these products are similar in nature and often depend on the issuing bank . Cashier 's Check Are checks signed and guaranteed by the bank . This means the funds are coming from the bank instead of your account -- which usually means they immediately take the money from your account . This is usually the most secure of the options and usually does n't have many restrictions . Certified Check Are checks signed by the customer , certified by the bank that you have enough funds and that your signature is genuine . Usually , but not always - the bank will set aside the funds . Bank Draft Similar to a certified check but the bank will set aside the funds until the bank draft is used . Generally used in transactions involving larger sums . Money order It 's a payment order similar to a certified check ; however , it needs to be prepaid . Also money orders may have maximum face values allowed .
Not ATM , because for that your friend would need your ATM card , but yes in person in the branch . If you can have someone who knows your account number come in to a Chase branch with the check - they 'll be able to deposit it for you . edit A reminder - the check must be endorsed by you or be " for deposit only " .
Below are some of the differences between FedWire credit transfers and ACH credit transfers in the US . FedWire Same day clearing , which means the sender 's account is debited and your account is credited on the same day Irrevocable . Once a FedWire is sent , the originator/sender can not send a reversing transaction . This is a huge advantage of using FedWires because it mitigates risk of reversals . Cost . FedWire typically cost more to send and to receive ACH Credit ( aka Direct Deposit ) Next day clearing . Settlement or clearing typically takes place Next Banking day . Inexpensive . Little or no cost to send and receive . ( Costs , if any , depend on your banking relationship and the fees your financial institution may charge ) Allows for Reversals . Sender/originator does have the ability to perform reversals or correcting entries . Batch Processing ACH entries are group together into batches and processed by Financial Institutions and the ACH Operators in batch mode . You can find additional information regarding ACH at <URL> and FedWire at <URL>
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
MICR fields are defined by their distance to the right edge of the check . The routing number is always the same distance from the right edge . Business checks are longer and have more room for auxiliary information on the left if the bank chooses to use it .
Yes . You did not notice the " $ 1,410 Customer Down Payment " , the " $ 650 Acquisition Fee " , the " $ 350 Disposition Fee " " due at lease termination " , and the " $ 275 security deposit " for customers who do not have good enough credit . Also , " A dealer documentary service fee up to $ 150 may be added to the sale price or capitalized cost . " These charges might ( or might not ) add up to the dealer profit margin . You can negotiate the " Adjusted Capitalized Cost " of " $ 29,841 " , and the " documentary service fee " . By doing so , you can reduce your up-front payment ( and the dealer profit margin ) . The price mentioned above " Includes destination charge , but excludes state and local taxes , tags , registration , title and insurance . " Also , this is a " low mileage lease " . If you choose to not purchase the vehicle at the end of the lease , you " may be charged for excessive wear based on Toyota Financial Services standards for normal use and for mileage in excess of 24,000 miles at the rate of $ 0.15 per mile " .
Tradable is a much broader term than marketable . For example , some programmers/developers sell their services online , hence programming is a tradable service . However , it is not a security nor is it marketable since it can not readily be converted to cash . All marketable securities are , by definition , tradable .
What you are saying is a very valid concern . After the flash crash many institutions in the US replaced " true market orders " ( where tag 40 = 1 and has no price ) with deep in the money limit orders under the hood , after the <URL> raised concerns about the use of market orders in the case of large HFT traders , and concerns on the lack of liquidity that caused market orders that found no limit orders to execute on the other side of the trade , driving the prices of blue chip stocks into the pennies . We also applaud the CFTC requesting comment regarding whether it is appropriate to restrict large order execution design that results in disruptive trading . In particular , we believe there are questions whether it is ever appropriate to permit large order algorithms that employ unlimited use of market orders or that permit executions at prices which are a dramatic percentage below the present market price without a pause for human review So although you still see a market order on the front end , it is transformed to a very aggressive limit in the back end . However , doing this change manually , by selling at price 0 or buying at 9999 may backfire since it may trigger fat finger checks and prevent your order from reaching the market . For example <URL> rejects orders that are priced too aggressively and do n't comply with the range of valid prices . If you want your trade to execute right now and you are willing to take slippage in order to get fast execution , sending a market order is still the best alternative .
It would n't hurt . Even if you have n't had any credit or loan activity , someone may have gotten a card or a loan under your name : identity theft . That gives you the opportunity to clear things up before you apply the first time . Granted , it may be a long shot , but as littleadv said : " Why not ? "
In the US ( and apparently the UK ) , Renters insurance is an umbrella policy that generally includes some liability coverage in case of damages caused by the insured as well as coverage for contents , and often includes a stipend to cover expenses from finding temporary shelter should it be needed . Contents insurance just covers the property owned by/in possession of the insured . This can be limited by type of damage , so if you are on the top floor you do not need to worry as much about flooding , as if you are on a lower floor . But the savings are generally very small . On a 100k policy in the US typically the difference between renters and content coverage is less than $ 20 a year . Typically content coverage is for people with valuable assets ( original artwork , jewelry , etc ) in excess of what standard liability and property coverage would be needed . This would usually be purchased in addition to a rental or owners policy . Though you could choose to protect your contents with out a liability protection policy . Tenant coverage appears to be the equivalent of the General Liability policy in the US . It would protect the tenant from liability in case of damage caused by them to the rental property or other tenants .
365D is represented on a daily chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each day the market is open . It represents 365 trading days . So if your SMA is based on the closed prices it would represent the average daily close price over the previous 365 days . As each day progresses the previous 365th day will be dropped off the average and the previous day will be added to it . To represent one year in a SMA you would need to include 52 weeks x 5 trading days per week minus any public holidays that fall on a trading day . 52W is represented on a weekly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each week . So the Open would be the opening price on Monday morning , the Close would be the closing price on Friday afternoon , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the week . If your SMA is based on the weekly close price it would represent the average weekly close ( the close price for each Friday afternoon unless the Friday is a public holiday then the close price on Thursday afternoon ) over the previous 52 weeks . 12M is represented on a monthly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each month . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the 1st of the months ( or first trading day of the month ) , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the month , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the month . If your SMA is based on the monthly close price it would represent the average monthly close ( the close price for the afternoon of the last trading day of the month ) over the previous 12 months . 1Y is represented on a yearly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each year . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the first trading day of the year , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the year , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the year . Note : a 1Y SMA on a yearly chart would simply represent the close price for each year , so the get an effective SMA on a yearly chart you would need to use a longer period than 1Y . So 52W , 12M and 1Y all represent one year on a chart , however , 365D would actually represent more than a year because there are less than 365 trading days in a year . Also , to use both monthly or yearly charts you would want to be looking at very long term time periods , or else the chart would not tell you very much and be better represented in either weekly or daily time frames . For Monthly charts you would want to be looking at least at 5 years plus of data , and for yearly charts at least 50 to 100 years or more of data .
Whole life insurance accumulates a cash value on a pre-tax basis . With a paid-up policy , you make payments until a particular age ( usually 65 or 70 ) , at which point you are insured for the rest of your life or a very old age like 120 . You can also access this pool of money via loans while you are still alive , but you reduce your benefit until you repay the loans . This may be advantageous if you have a high net worth . Also , if you own a business or farm , a permanent policy may be desirable if the transfer of your property to heirs is likely to generate alot of transactional costs like taxes . Nowadays there are probably better ways to do that too . Whole life/universal life is a waste of money 95 % + of the time . An example , my wife and I were recently offered open-enrollment ( no medical exam ) insurance policies our employers in New York . We 're in our early 30 's . I bought a term policy paying about $ 400k which costs $ 19/mo . My wife was offered a permanent policy that pays $ 100k which costs $ 83/mo , and would have a cash value of $ 35k at age 65 . If you invested the $ 60/mo difference between those policies and earned 5 % / year with 30 % taxes on the gains , you 'd have over $ 40k with 4x more coverage .
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
If the funds are deposited into a noninterest-bearing account , they will be covered by FDIC insurance regardless of the amount ( However , this extended coverage may not be valid after Dec. 31 , 2012 ) : On November 9 , 2010 , the FDIC issued a Final Rule implementing section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that provides for unlimited insurance coverage of noninterest-bearing transaction accounts . Beginning December 31 , 2010 , through December 31 , 2012 , all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully insured , regardless of the balance of the account , at all FDIC-insured institutions . ( Source : <URL> )
A REIT is a real estate investment trust . It is a company that derives most of its gross income from and holds most of its assets in real estate investments , which , in this case , include either real property , mortgages , or both . They provide a way for investors to get broad exposure in a real estate market without going to buy a bunch of properties themselves . It also provides diversification within the real estate segment since REITs will often ( but not necessarily ) have either way more properties than an individual could get or have very large properties ( like a few resorts ) that would be too expensive for any one investor . By law , they must pay at least 90 % of their taxable income as dividends to investors , so they typically have a good dividend rate ( possibly but not necessarily ) at the expense of growth of the stock price . Some of those dividends may be tax advantaged and some will not . An MLP is a master limited partnership . These trade on the exchange like corporations , but they are not corporations . ( Although often used in common language as synonyms , corporation and company are not the same thing . Corporation is one way to organize a company under the law . ) They are partnerships , and when you buy a share you become a partner in the company . This is an alternative form of ownership to being a shareholding . In this case you are a limited partner , which means that you have limited liability as with stock . The shares may appreciate or not , just like a stock , and you can generally sell them back to the market for a capital gain or loss under the same rules as a stock . The main difference here from a practical point of view is taxes : Partnerships ( of any type ) do no pay tax - Instead their income and costs are passed to the individual partners , who must then include it on their personal returns ( Form 1040 , Schedule E ) . The partnership will send each shareholder a Schedule K-1 form at tax time . This means you may have " phantom income " that is taxable even though cash never flowed through your hands since you 'll have to account for the income of the partnership . Many partnerships mitigate this by making cash distributions during the year so that the partners do actually see the cash , but this is not required . On the other hand , if it does happen , it 's often characterized as a return of capital , which is not taxable in the year that you receive it . A return of capital reduces your cost basis in the partnership and will eventually result in a larger capital gain when you sell your shares . As with any investment , there are pros and cons to each investment type . Of the two , the MLP is probably less like a " regular " stock since getting the Schedule K-1 may require some extra work at tax time , especially if you 've never seen one before . On the other hand , that may be worth it to you if you can find one that 's appreciating in value and still returning capital at a good rate since this could be a " best of everything " situation where you defer tax and - when you eventually do pay , you pay at favorable capital gains rates - but still manage to get your cash back in hand before you sell . ( In case not clear , my comments about tax are specific to the US . No idea how this is treated elsewhere . ) By real world example , I guess you meant a few tickers in each category ? You can find whole lists online . I just did a quick search ( " list of MLP " and " list of REIT " ) , found a list , and have provided the top few off of the first list that I found . The lists were alphabetical by company name , so there 's no explicit or implicit endorsement of these particular investments . Examples of REIT : AKR AIV ARE Examples of MLP : CAFD ACMP AB
The ratings that you see are usually <URL> . The <URL> publishes several different kinds of ratings that are designed to measure " the creditworthiness of an issuer or debt obligation " , i.e. how close the company is to insolvency , how financially stable it is , etc. . In short , it 's a rating of the financial strength of the company . For most consumers , these ratings probably are n't anything more than a formality , since most major insurers are solid companies . Of course , these ratings break down when companies are n't estimating their potential for losses correctly , hence the bailout of AIG after its fiasco with credit default swaps . The <URL> AM Best uses is somewhat complex . They state that : Our rating process involves a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis of a company 's balance sheet strength , operating performance and business profile . This includes comparisons to peers and industry standards as well as assessments of operating plans , philosophy and management . I 'm fairly certain that these ratings apply to all types of insurers , including re-insurers , as well as some of the securities they offer . <URL> and <URL> also publish ratings of insurance companies , but AM Best is known for focusing almost exclusively on the insurance industry . All of these ratings are financial strength ratings , however , which is n't necessarily indicative of how appropriate their products will be for you . I 'm sure there are other ratings too , e.g. customer service ratings , that you could find somewhere , but I do n't know of any specific ones off the top of my head . The financial strength of a company is more relevant when you buy a life insurance policy or an annuity , because you want the company to be viable for a long time . In this case , you should consider the financial strength ratings as part of your evaluation before purchasing such a policy .
<URL> is a record that can be put on your asset , meaning that any sale proceeds of the asset will go to a lien holder/lien holder must approve any transfer of ownership . The asset continues to belong to you though . <URL> is when someone gives you money and you promise to pay it back . <URL> is a specific case of a loan - loan is called " mortgage " when something is mortgaged in return ( usually this refers to real estate , but auto loans are essentially the same ) . I.e. : the lender puts a lien on the property and has the right to sell it if you 're in default on your loan obligation ( a " regular " lien does n't give that right ) .
I actually had to go to the bank today and so I decided to ask . The answer I was given is that a check is a legal document ( a promise to pay ) . In order to get your money from the bank , you need to sign the check over to them . By endorsing the check you are attesting to the fact that you have transferred said document to them and they can draw on that account .
Markets tend to go up over time , so most things you could buy would make money . A benchmark is meant to represent the market as a whole ( or a subset that is relevant to what you are trading ) , so you can tell if your specific choices helped or hurt your return . As an example , say you pick two financial stocks , Citi and Goldman . They get you a return of 10 % for the year , so you think you made good choices . But if the financial sector as a whole had a return of 20 % , your choices were n't actually that great .
end question
start question
How can I import customers and invoices from a previous year 's Gnucash file ?
There does not appear to be a way to export the customers and invoices nor a way to import them into another data file if you could export them . However , as said in the comments to your question , your question seems predicated upon the notion that it is ' best practice ' to create a new data file each year . This is not considered necessary It should be noted that GnuCash reports should be able to provide accurate year-end data for accounting purposes without zeroing transactions , so book-closing may not be necessary . Leaving books unclosed does mean that account balances in the Chart of Accounts will not show Year-To-Date amounts . - <URL> The above linked wiki page has several methods to ' close the books ' if that is what you want to do - but it is not necessary . There is even <URL> which only talks about setting up the new accounts and transactions - nothing about customers , invoices etc. . Note that you can ' close the books ' without creating a new data file . In summary : you can not do it ; but you do n't need to create a new file for the new year so you do n't need to do it .
First off , medical FSAs will let you withdraw the entire FSA right away , even if you have n't contributed the entire amount yet . So you may not need to do a payment plan . If your FSA comes with a debit card , you can just pay it all off with that ( if you have $ 1500 in the account ) and not worry about this . You do n't have to have the funds deposited in the FSA to spend them ( up to your annual contribution amount , of course ) . Second , medical FSAs that do not come with a debit card repay you for what you have already spent , not for what you owe ; so you 're correct , you 'll have to pay it first then get repaid from the FSA . The date you incurred the expense determines when it 's eligible , not when you repaid it ; but you will have a deadline ( typically a few months after your end of year , which is usually either end of calendar year or end of the grace period in march ) to apply for reimbursement ; check your plan details for more detail . It 's also possible the FSA might have some method of paying expenses directly via check , though none of the ones I 've been in have that option .
You can claim a deduction only if all of your business is conducted from the home , i.e. your home is your principal place of business - not just if you work from home sometimes . The <URL> ( Canada Revenue Agency ) has pretty strict guidelines listed <URL> , but once you 're sure you qualify for a deduction , the next step would be to determine what portion of your home qualifies . You can not attempt to deduct your entire mortgage simply because you run your business out of your home . The portion of your mortgage and other related &amp; allowable home expense deductions has to be pro-rated to be equal to or less than the portion of your home you use for business . Simply put , if your business is operated out of a 120 sq-ft self-contained space , and your home 's total square-footage is 2400 sq-ft , you can deduct 5 % of your expenses ( 120/2 ,400 = 0.05 ) . Hope this helps !
What you 're asking about is called a " distribution " when it comes to an LLC . It 's basically you paying yourself some or all of the proceeds of the business , depending on how you 're set up . You can pay yourself distributions on a regular schedule , say monthly , or you can do it at the end of the year . Whatever you do in this regard , what you take out as distributions is reported on your personal income tax as taxable income . LLCs in the U.S. use pass-through taxation ( unless you intentionally elect to have the LLC treated as a corporation for tax purposes , which some people do ) , so whatever the principals receive in distribution is personally taxable . Keep in mind that you 'll have to pay ALL of the taxes normally covered by an employer , such as self-employment tax ( usually about 15 % ) , social security tax , and so on . This is in addition to income tax , so remember that . I hope this helps . Good luck !
I think this is explained fairly clearly by the <URL> on the topic . In particular , yes there is an immediate tax benefit in the year that you make the investment , in that it reduces your income tax bill by 50 % of your investment up to # 100,000 ( i.e. a maximum reduction of # 50,000 ) . This reduction is capped at the actual income tax paid , so you ca n't directly get money back if the theoretical relief would exceed that amount . You can also " carry back " some of an investment one tax year so you could potentially get a refund on your 2012-2013 tax bill by investing now ( before April 5th 2014 when 2013-2014 ends ) - similarly you could divide up an investment between the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 tax years if you invest after April 6th 2014 . Note that you need to hold onto the shares for at least three years or the relief is withdrawn ( which presumably means HMRC will demand the tax be repaid again ) . You will also be exempt from capital gains tax on the shares if you hold them for the three years . Finally there are some provisions for getting relief from capital gains tax on assets you already hold and sell if you then reinvest the money in SEIS shares .
If you simply want to preserve the value of your capital , take a look at buying <URL> from the US Treasury : When a TIPS matures , the investor is paid the inflation-adjusted principal or original principal , whichever is greater . Since a TIPS investor wo n't receive less than the original principal , the investor 's original principal amount is protected against deflation as well . TIPS pay interest semiannually at a fixed rate . The rate is applied to the adjusted principal ; so , like the principal , interest payments rise with inflation and fall with deflation . So you 'll earn ( a small amount of ) interest , and the principal will be adjusted for inflation . Edit : As Michael Pryor points out in a comment below , there is liquidity risk -- if you need the money before the bond matures , you could lose principal . In my answer above I 'm assuming you want to " lock up " the money for a period of time . If you 're anticipating needing cash from the principal , you could set up a <URL> to provide you with some extra liquidity .
If this is your money , and if you can - if asked - prove that you legally made it , there is no limit . You pay taxes on your income , so sending it into the world is tax free . Your citizenship is not relevant for that .
Unless they 're the actual employers , the I-9 is none of their business . Your employer must verify your eligibility for employment on the first day of your employment , i.e. : when you find a job you 'll have to fill I-9 anyway . The only reason I can think for them to do it is to verify that you 're eligible for employment before they waste any time on searching for a job for you . I 'm not sure if they 're legally allowed to ask for your status , so maybe that 's their way of working around that . I do n't think they can require you to fill I-9 , and in fact I 'm not sure if its even legal for them to obtain that information without actually being your employers . IMHO , that is , consult with an attorney if you want a proper legal advice .
Sorry , but whether or not you drive in New York , the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles requires you to get a license in New York and surrender your California license . <URL> : If you become a <URL> of NYS , you must get a NYS driver license within 30 days and surrender your out-of-state driver license . Normally , you can not have a NYS driver license and a driver license from another state , but there are exceptions . It is a violation of Federal law to hold more than one commercial driver license ( CDL ) .
First suggestion - talk to a State-licensed tax practitioner ( CPA in your state ) , because this can be nasty . As I mentioned in the comments - its a serious offence , and your employer may get in trouble . But the fact that you ( or your boss ) think you were misclassified does n't necessarily make you so . For you it is of course better to be a W2 employee - less FICA . But on the other hand - also less withholding ( probably too late to worry about it now ) , less unemployment compensation , less worker 's compensation , etc. . For employer 1099 is better for the same reasons : they do n't need to pay payroll taxes ( FICA/FUTA/State taxes/insurance/etc ) , less liability and less benefits . That is why such a misclassification is an offence , and a serious one , for the employer . They wo n't admit it unless they have to , and if they have to - they will have to correct . However since its a prior year , some things may be difficult to address properly now and you may be stuck . Its not just a matter of forms . I suggest taking this to a professional consultation . Do n't take tax advice from your boss .
Maryland , Virginia , and Washington DC have a reciprocity agreement . You fill out all your taxes based on where you live not where you work . I have worked for a company headquartered in Maryland , but in the DC office , while living in Virginia . The only tax form was for Virginia . The state W-4 was for Virginia . If you had your employer send your state income tax withholding to the wrong state , you will have to file a form with that state to get that money back . I was never in the situation where I had rental income in one state while living in the other , so I cant answer how that would change things .
As an NRI , you are still liable to pay taxes on certain incomes earned in India , like the interest on Savings accounts / rent received from property / capital gains on shares / etc. . It is advisable to file a NIL return in India . The forms are same as one you fill for normal returns . You just have to declare the right source of income and show zero taxes [ if within the exempt bracket ] . There are quite a few online services including <URL> As Dilip has mentioned in comments , US taxes on your global income , hence it would be advisable to declare the interest income in India to the IRS . The Double tax avoidance treaty would help you avoid being taxed twice , however you would still pay the max rate of tax .
This is a state by state thing , and I 'm cheating because I know you are in New York State : You need a <URL> . You do n't have to incorporate ( LLC , etc ) for this , but it is not your SSN . You need to get a <URL> for the state . When you purchase items for resale in NY State , you can give them a <URL> to prove you are tax-exempt . When you sell your items , you need to charge sales tax to residents of NY . ( This is wildly complicated because the rates change for EVERY county , and sometimes even sub counties , in NY - use their <URL> ) .
One things about psychology - people spend more money when its an abstract concept instead of having cold , hard cash . What does this mean ? People spend more money when they use credit cards for day to day purchases . While I still use a credit card for day to day purchases , there 's a big difference between bringing $ 200 to costco to pay for groceries and laying out 10 $ 20 bills vs swiping a card when you see a number flash on the screen . If you 're truly looking to reduce expenses , keep this in mind .
Consult a qualified tax professional . I trust that 's what the " silicon valley types " did ... at least those who still have most of their money left . When you speak to a professional , I would expect a couple of things you 'd be made aware of about such a situation in Canada are : You might qualify for a lifetime capital gains exemption . If you are selling shares in a Canadian Controlled Private Corporation ( CCPC ) , then your first $ 750K of gains may be tax free . Tax free . Did you know about the <URL> ? Read up . Conditions apply . Generally , capital gains income in Canada is n't taxed at the regular income tax rate . Rather , <URL> . That is , the tax on the part over the exemption amount ( should you qualify ) would at worst be only half what you assumed . You do n't know what you do n't know , so before you jump to any conclusions about how much you are likely to owe or else start making plans to leave the country , please consult a professional ( or three ) . Do this soon , before the transaction completes , because sometimes you need some time to structure things in the best way .
Usually , you take this to your credit card issuer . I do n't know what the Argentinian laws are on the matter , but in all the places I do know what the laws are - they 're the same . You dispute the charge with your credit card issuer claiming that the product is not as advertised . The issuer will contact the merchant account provider of the company you bought from and transmit your complaint to them . The company will have to respond , and in the end your credit card issuer will have to decide whether they agree that your claim is valid , or not . If they side with you , they issue a charge back and refund your money ( the merchant account provider for that company will charge their account ) . Since you did in fact receive a product , you 'll have to show why you think it is not as advertised , so get as much proofs as you can - screenshots , descriptions , ads that you relied upon , etc. . This is called " charge-back " process and is a pretty standard and similar procedure with both Visa and Mastercard .
There does not appear to be a way to export the customers and invoices nor a way to import them into another data file if you could export them . However , as said in the comments to your question , your question seems predicated upon the notion that it is ' best practice ' to create a new data file each year . This is not considered necessary It should be noted that GnuCash reports should be able to provide accurate year-end data for accounting purposes without zeroing transactions , so book-closing may not be necessary . Leaving books unclosed does mean that account balances in the Chart of Accounts will not show Year-To-Date amounts . - <URL> The above linked wiki page has several methods to ' close the books ' if that is what you want to do - but it is not necessary . There is even <URL> which only talks about setting up the new accounts and transactions - nothing about customers , invoices etc. . Note that you can ' close the books ' without creating a new data file . In summary : you can not do it ; but you do n't need to create a new file for the new year so you do n't need to do it .
If some clerk at the bank misses it , you may be able . Technically you should n't be allowed to . All three have to sign .
The Find window does n't have the Charge Amount field in it It 's the " Value " field . <URL>
I 'm going to take the " Expense Piechart " report in GnuCash 2.4.8 as my primary example ; other reports may have slightly different options . Open the report you want to use . Click " Edit report options " in the toolbar or Edit menu . In the Accounts tab , the " Show Accounts until level : " option cuts off subaccounts , and you may wish to increase it . For example , I keep expense accounts like " Expenses : Entertainment : Games " , and if I want to see that specific account I have to set this option to 3 , instead of the default 2 . In the Display tab , the " Maximum Slices " ( " Maximum Bars " for bar charts ) controls how many accounts are shown before the rest are grouped as an " Other " entry . If you want to keep this configuration for future use , you can either leave the report tab open indefinitely , or save a custom report : In the General tab of the report options , give the report a new name . This is necessary . Click the Save ( floppy disk ) icon in the toolbar .
end question
start question
Can I count a 2015 expense , if I paid the bill in 2016 ?
You paid the expense when you put it on the credit card in 2015 . The fact that you did n't pay the credit card until 2016 does n't change that .
If your house is repossessed because you 've defaulted on the mortgage then the bank sells the house ( probably cheap , because it 's a quick sale of a repossessed property ) , takes the money you owe them ( the mortgage balance plus the outstanding interest payments and any costs to sell the house like estate agent 's or auctioneer 's fees ) out of the proceeds , and then pays you the rest . If on the other hand the sale price does n't cover the mortgage and outstanding interest , then they can pursue you for the balance ( in many states of the US mortgages are " non-recourse " and they ca n't do this , but in the UK they can ) .
Did you have an agreement with the company , in advance , that you were performing a service for them at a stipulated rate ? Else , your " work " was pro-bono , charity , free , whatever you want to call it . Too bad , so sad . On the other hand , if you did suffer demonstrable damages as a result of their error , you could try and pursue it in court , but , 2 hours of your time ? ... good luck with that ;-) Your best bet is to ask for some kind of credit , if you 're willing to put a bit more time into it and talk to the right people at the company . But you might get nothing . While a credit is n't cash , if you were to continue using their services , it 's something , and some companies make it a practice to offer credit to satisfy a long-time customer 's complaint .
Ideally you would negotiate a car price without ever mentioning : your intentions around financing whether or not you work for the car company whether you 've recently graduated any trade-in you might be bringing or lease you need to get out of And other factors that affect the price . You and the dealer would then negotiate a true price for the car , followed by the application of rebates , followed by negotiating for the loan if there is to be one . In practice this rarely happens . The sales rep asks point blank what rebates you qualify for ( by asking get-to-know-you questions like where you work or if you served in the armed forces - you may not realize that these are do-you-qualify-for-a-rebate questions ) before you 've even chosen a model . They take that into account right from the beginning , along with whether they 'll make a profit lending you money , or have to spend something to subsidize your zero percent loan . However unlike your veteran 's status , your loan intentions are changeable . So when you get to the end you can ask if the price could be improved by paying cash . Or you could try putting the negotiated price on a credit card , and when they do n't like that , ask for a further discount to stop you from using the credit card and paying cash .
You 'll own whatever fraction you bought . To own the company ( as in , boolean - yes or no ) you need to buy 100 % of the outstanding stock . RE controlling the company , in general the answer is yes - although the mechanism for this might not be so straight forward ( ie . you may have to appoint board members and may only be able to do so at pre-set intervals ) and there may be conditions in the company charter designed to stop this happening . Depending on your jurisdiction certain ownership percentages can also trigger the need to do certain things so you may not be able to just buy 50 % - in Australia when you reach 20 % ownership you have to launch a <URL> .
You can do this through a journal entry in Quickbooks . It can all be entered as one entry , there 's no need to do separate ones for each bill . The journal entry should debit Accounts Payable and credit your equity account . In the line for Accounts Payable , make sure to choose your name in the ' Name ' column . This , in effect , enters a credit to your account , which will offset the bills that were shown there previously . The last step is to apply those credits to the bills . Even though they offset each other , your name would still show up in any Payables reports and in the Pay Bills window . To do this , open the Pay Bills window and select one of the bills owed to you . There should be an option to choose ' Apply Credits ' or something similar ( depends on which version of Quickbooks you are running ) . Choose that option , and apply credits in the amount of the bill , so that it zeroes out . Do the same for all of the other bills . Once they are all checked off , click the button to Pay Bills . This wo n't actually ' pay ' anything , but will instead just apply the credits to the bills as indicated .
You did not state which country you were referring to , so I 'm going to assume Canada . Obviously , the standard approach if you accidentally rip a $ 100 bill in half would be to tape the two halves together . Failing that , though , the Bank of Canada will still accept damaged bills . A torn bill consisting of more than three-fifths of the note is worth full value . A bill is worth half if between 40 % and 60 % of the bill remains intact . It is worth nothing if less than this remains intact . This information comes from <URL> and <URL> ( The Great Canadian Trivia Book by Ray and Kearney ) . In your example , each half would be worth $ 50 . You would not be able to profit from this approach . Indeed , I know of no country where you could profit from this approach , for obvious reasons .
In any . There 's no SSN requirement to open a bank account in the US . It comes into play when banks use SSN as a means of identification , or when they 're required to collect tax ids ( for interest bearing accounts ) .
No , because you did n't lose anything . When you exercise ISO " at loss " you 're buying stock without a discount , that 's it .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
Among possible sources of error : What is the nominal interest rate and compounding period ? What is the effective interest rate per payment period ? Does the lender take into account the different number of days in the months , in amortizing a monthly payment mortgage ? Has the lender added any fees or costs to the principal amount ? Some lenders insist on paying property taxes ( since the city gets first crack at the property ahead of any lender ) , or fire insurance premiums ( since it 's their collateral that could burn down )
You absolutely should consider expenses . Why do they matter when the " sticker price " already includes them ? Because you can be much more certain about what the expense ratio will be in the future than you can about what the fund performance will be in the future . The " sticker price " mixes generalized economic growth ( i.e. , gains you could have gotten from other funds ) with gains specific to the fund , but the expense ratio is completely fund-specific . In other words , when looking at the " sticker price " performance of a fund , it 's difficult to determine how that performance will extend into the future . But the expense ratio will definitely carry into the future . It is rare for funds to drastically change their expense ratios , but common for funds to change their performance . Suppose you find a fund that has returned a net of 8 % over some time period and has a 1 % expense ratio , and another fund that has returned a net of 10 % but has a 2 % expense ratio . So the first fund returned 9 % -1 % = 8 % and the second returned 12 % -2 % = 10 % . There are decent odds that , over some future time period , the first fund will return 10 % -1 % = 9 % while the second fund will return 10 % -2 % = 8 % . In order for the second fund to be better than the first , it has to reliably outperform it by 1 % ; this is harder than it may sound . Simply put , there is a lot of " noise " in the fund performance , but the expense ratio is " all signal " . Of course , if you find a fund that will reliably return 20 % after expenses of 3 % , it would probably make sense to choose that over one that returns 10 % after expenses of 1 % . But " will reliably return " is not the same as " has returned over the past N years " , and the difference between the two phrases becomes greater and greater the smaller N is . When you find a fund that seems to have performed staggeringly well over some time period , you should be cautious ; there is a good chance that the future holds some regression to the mean , and the fund will not continue to be so stellar . You may want to take a look at <URL> which asked about Morningstar fund ratings , which are essentially a measure of past performance . My answer references a study done by Morningstar comparing its own star ratings vs. fund expenses as a predictor of overall results . I 'll repeat here the take-home message : How often did it pay to heed expense ratios ? Every time . How often did it pay to heed the star rating ? Most of the time , with a few exceptions . How often did the star rating beat expenses as a predictor ? Slightly less than half the time , taking into account funds that expired during the time period . In other words , Morningstar 's own study showed that its own star ratings ( that is , past fund performance ) are not as good at predicting success as simply looking at the expense ratios of the funds .
A good way to measure the performance of your investments is over the long term . 25-30 % returns are easy to get ! It 's not going to be 25-30 % in a single year , though . You should n't expect more than about 4 % real ( inflation-adjusted ) return per year , on average , over the long term , unless you have reason to believe that you 're doing a better job of predicting the market than the intellectual and investment might of Wall Street - which is possible , but hard . ( Pro tip : It 's actually quite easy to outdo the market at large over the short term just by getting lucky or investing in risky askets in a good year . Earning this sort of return consistently over many years , though , is stupidly hard . Usually you 'll wipe out your gains several years into the process , instead . ) The stock market fluctuates like crazy , which is why they tell you not to invest any money you 're likely to need sooner than about 5 years out and you switch your portfolio from stocks to bonds as you approach and enter retirement . The traditional benchmark for comparison , as others have mentioned , is the rate of return ( including dividends ) from the Standard and Poors 500 Index . These are large stable companies which make up the core of larger United States business . ( Most people supplement these with some smaller companies and overseas companies as a part of the portfolio . )
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
No , you only pay tax on money you earned while in the state in question . Even then generally there are exclusions if you made only a small amount . ( Generally earning less than $ 400 or $ 500 , depending on the state , relieves you a having to file or pay taxes in a state . ) Do n't want to pay any state income tax ? There are seven states with no state income tax . They are Alaska , Florida , Nevada , South Dakota , Texas , Washington and Wyoming . Yes , I am a CPA .
Short answer : yes . Long answer : you have to check with Desjardins if you can buy other funds using their broker , but if not you can just open another RRSP account with a better broker who gives you this option . You can open an many RRSPs as you wish . If you are really unhappy with Desjardins , you can then transfer your money from there to your new broker without being exposed to tax . <URL>
For public US companies listed on an exchange , they must follow SEC guidelines . Thus , their financial statements will be prepared under US GAAP . To answer your question , yes , if the cost is over their capitalization policy amount , it must be capitalized and depreciated . Under GAAP there are several options for depreciation , such as straight line and unit-of-production . The choice is always disclosed in the footnotes of the 10-K . Ideally the company would choose a method that resembles the actual depreciation of the asset most closely so the statements are more reliable .
You could look into an index fund or ETF that invests primarily in Real Estate Investment Trusts ( <URL> ) . An REIT is any corporation , trust or association that acts as an investment agent specializing in real estate and real estate mortgages Many investment firms offer an index fund or ETF like this . For example , <URL> and <URL> have funds that invest primarily in real estate markets . You could also invest in a home construction ETF , like iShares ' <URL> , which invests in companies related to home construction . This ETF includes more companies than just REITs , so for example , Home Depot is included .
Yes you can deposit money into your credit card . When you make a repayment of your credit card bill you are making a deposit into it and it will show up as a credit on your statement . If you get a refund for an item you returned this will also be listed as a credit on your statement .
If you participate in an employer-provided retirement plan like a 401 ( k ) your right to deduct an IRA contribution is phased out once your income reaches a certain level . This is from the IRS website for 2010 : " If either you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan , you may be entitled to only a partial ( reduced ) deduction or no deduction at all , depending on your income and your filing status . Your deduction begins to decrease ( phase out ) when your income rises above a certain amount and is eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount . These amounts vary depending on your filing status . " Here is the link : <URL>
end question
start question
Can everyday people profit from unexpected world events ?
<URL> has Pre and After market : NASDAQ Trading Schedule Regular Trading Session Schedule The NASDAQ Stock Market Trading Sessions ( Eastern Time ) Pre-Market Trading Hours from 4:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. Market Hours from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. After-Market Hours from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Quote and order-entry from 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Quotes are open and firm from 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. . You can trade in Pre/After Market but <URL> is very low . If an " unexpected world events " occurs , the volume/liquidity will most certainly increase . Another example is the <URL> that 's open <URL> . As one major forex market closes , another one opens . According to GMT , for instance , forex trading hours move around the world like this : available in New York between 01:00 pm -- 10:00 pm GMT ; at 10:00 pm GMT Sydney comes online ; Tokyo opens at 00:00 am and closes at 9:00 am GMT ; and to complete the loop , London opens at 8:00 am and closes at 05:00 pm GMT . This enables traders and brokers worldwide , together with the participation of the central banks from all continents , to trade online 24 hours a day . <URL>
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
Wisegeeks are explaining it well , Investopedia are mentioning it briefly . The difference is in the accounting treatment . The difference is hard to notice , but significant : for example if your company is making ice cream , then the earnings would be the revenue from selling ice cream minus all the costs to produce ice cream ( including materials , salary , equipment , transportation , etc ) . But the profits would also include other revenue ( for example - interest on cash in the bank ) , reduced by other expenses ( for example , the CEO 's vacation with the mistress to Argentina ) . Large difference between earnings and profits may suggest that the company spends a lot of money on unrelated activities ( for negative difference ) or has a lot of unrelated income ( for positive difference ) . Differences in accounting methods ( for example GAAP vs IFRS ) may also contribute to the difference between the revenue and the profits .
From the <URL> : Deduction over $ 500 for certain clothing or household items . You must include with your return a qualified appraisal of any single item of clothing or any household item that is not in good used condition or better , that you donated after August 17 , 2006 , and for which you deduct more than $ 500 . See Household Goods and Used Clothing , earlier . Based on this quote , it is per item , not per total . However , if you donate more than $ 5K , an appraisal report is needed . In any case you need to keep all the receipts , and be able to substantiate your donation . I suggest keeping photographs of the donated items , and write down the prices in the thrift shop at which you 're donating , as the donation value . Edit I understand from your comment that you asked about the Kentucky State taxes . Similarly to Federal , you fill everything on Schedule A of your State tax form . From my brief reading , they 're following the Federal rules , and require form 8283 for non-cash donations over $ 500 . You only fill the form once , if total donations is over $ 500 , but on the form you write down items over $ 500 / $ 5000 separately with additional supporting documents ( appraisals etc ) if needed , or nothing - if not needed ( for items below $ 500 ) .
Yes . You got it right . If BBY has issues and drops to say , $ 20 , as the put buyer , I force you to take my 100 shares for $ 2800 , but they are worth $ 2000 , and you lost $ 800 for the sake of making $ 28 . The truth is , the commissions also wipe out the motive for trades like yours , even a $ 5 cost is $ 10 out of the $ 28 you are trying to pocket . You may ' win ' 10 of these trades in a row , then one bad one wipes you out .
<URL> has Pre and After market : NASDAQ Trading Schedule Regular Trading Session Schedule The NASDAQ Stock Market Trading Sessions ( Eastern Time ) Pre-Market Trading Hours from 4:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. Market Hours from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. After-Market Hours from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Quote and order-entry from 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Quotes are open and firm from 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. . You can trade in Pre/After Market but <URL> is very low . If an " unexpected world events " occurs , the volume/liquidity will most certainly increase . Another example is the <URL> that 's open <URL> . As one major forex market closes , another one opens . According to GMT , for instance , forex trading hours move around the world like this : available in New York between 01:00 pm -- 10:00 pm GMT ; at 10:00 pm GMT Sydney comes online ; Tokyo opens at 00:00 am and closes at 9:00 am GMT ; and to complete the loop , London opens at 8:00 am and closes at 05:00 pm GMT . This enables traders and brokers worldwide , together with the participation of the central banks from all continents , to trade online 24 hours a day . <URL>
When you submit for reimbursement , the cash you get should be FIFO ( first in , first out ) and a large bill should empty out 2011 first , automatically tapping 12 for remaining amount owed . I doubt you need to do anything .
Whether or not you have money in your account will not necessarily stop them withdrawing the money , and it certainly wo n't stop them attempting to withdraw the money . There are two possible scenarios when they attempt to withdraw the money ( as they surely will ) : The bank refuses the withdrawal : you still owe them the money , you may also owe additional late payment fees , the bank may also charge you for a refused payment . If you continue to refuse to pay they could sue you for it . The bank permits the withdrawal : they get their money , you may then owe fees or charges to the bank for the ( unauthorised ? ) overdraft . I think you are just lucky they have n't attempted the withdrawal yet . Put the necessary money into your account now if you possibly can , and consider this a slightly expensive lesson learned about following the Ts and Cs when cancelling services .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
He is wrong . Using Total Return ( Reinvesting Dividend ) , from the peak in December 1999 , it only took 6 years to recover . You can check the data for free <URL> . Make sure you choose " Gross Index Level " . ACWI Index is Developed Markets + Emerging Markets . World Index is Developed Markets only .
I think it depends on the bank rules , on both sides . Arguably , because of the " &amp; " , the bank where your room mate is going to deposit it might require you to be present as well . I 'm quite certain that both of you have to be present for cashing , but for depositing - check with the bank where it 's going to be deposited . It would be safe to have both signatures ( as you described ) , but it may happen that they 'll refuse to deposit it if it 's a non-joint account and only one is present . I would suggest calling and asking them . If you can have the landlord change it to " and/or " instead of " and " - it would definitely make your life easier .
You can certainly use the formula for the effective rate . The effective six-month rate is the rate of interest , compounded every six months , you would need to earn in order to earn the same amount of interest as an investment of the same principal , compounded annually . For example , if the interest rate , compounded annually , is 10 % , you calculate the six-month effective rate as shown : Solving this equation for yields a six-month effective rate of 4.881 % . You can verify that this gives the same investment as the annual rate with this calculation : where $ 100 is the principal , i.e. the initial investment . You can cancel it in this equation , but I left it in for the sake of clarify . This means that an investment earning 4.881 % interest , compounded every six months , would be worth the same as an investment earning a 10 % interest rate , compounded every year . In other words , the fact that the six-month compounding period is smaller than the annual compounding period does n't matter . The annual rate and the six-month rate both represent an answer to this question : Given some compounding period , what interest rate do I need to earn 10 % on my initial investment over the course of a year ? In my example , say you start with $ 100 and want to have $ 110 by the end of the year . A single interest payment of $ 10 at the end of a year ( " an annual rate of 10 % " ) would work , but two interest payments of 4.881 % , the first paid after six months based on your initial investment , and the second paid after a year based on your initial investment and the previous interest payment , would also work . Both interest rate structures give you the same amount after a year . The amounts and times at which they pay you are different , but the end result is the same . I 'm not sure which formula for nominal interest rates you 're referring to , but usually this refers to interest rates that do n't take inflation into account . That formula ( ) is n't directly related to compounding , and usually if you see the term " interest rate " listed without specifying nominal or real , it 's referring to the nominal rate . In the calculations above , I 'm exclusively referring to nominal rates .
There does not appear to be a way to export the customers and invoices nor a way to import them into another data file if you could export them . However , as said in the comments to your question , your question seems predicated upon the notion that it is ' best practice ' to create a new data file each year . This is not considered necessary It should be noted that GnuCash reports should be able to provide accurate year-end data for accounting purposes without zeroing transactions , so book-closing may not be necessary . Leaving books unclosed does mean that account balances in the Chart of Accounts will not show Year-To-Date amounts . - <URL> The above linked wiki page has several methods to ' close the books ' if that is what you want to do - but it is not necessary . There is even <URL> which only talks about setting up the new accounts and transactions - nothing about customers , invoices etc. . Note that you can ' close the books ' without creating a new data file . In summary : you can not do it ; but you do n't need to create a new file for the new year so you do n't need to do it .
Any institution that issues checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the passive side . Any institution that clears checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the originating side . Not any institution that can be - in fact is . Your credit union does n't provide this service because they do n't want to . It costs them money to implement and support it , but they do n't see the required benefit to justify it . They can . My credit union does that .
No , IRA contributions can only be made in the form of cash ( rollovers and conversions are different ) . You 'd have to sell the investments in your taxable account , incurring capital gains or losses , then transfer the proceeds to your IRA in cash . You could look into Vanguard Target Retirement funds , which have a lower $ 1,000 minimum investment , or Vanguard ETFs .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
I would say it 's all relative . Take the following two scenarios : I 'm a daytrader and I can make $ 1,000,000 a year with my aggressive trading , but I have to pay a 35 % tax rate . My remaining profit is $ 650,000 . I 'm a long-term trader and I can make $ 500,000 a year with less frequent trading . My tax rate is 20 % . My remaining profit is $ 400,000 . If you were facing these options , would you chose # 2 just because you pay a lower tax rate , even though you make less money ? These numbers are of course fictional , but the point I 'm trying to make is that everyone will seek the method that allows them to make the most money . If they have to pay a higher tax rate , so be it . One other thought : daytraders will have higher expenses , which are deductible .
Every company you work for will withhold from each paycheck 6.2 % of your wages that are applicable to social security . Some items reduce your gross pay before social security tax is calculated . When your pay with that employer reaches the annual limit , the 6.2 percent levy ends . That means that for some workers the take home pay goes up for the paychecks at the end of the year . But if you work for multiple companies at the same time , or if you change companies during the year excess amount could be withheld . The companies do n't know about what is going on with your total wages , so they have to collect the tax until you reach the limit with them . When you file your taxes the excess collected will be refunded , there is a line on the tax form for this . Important info from comments : <URL> for 1040 or 46 for 1040A
In the US , a private company with less than 500 owners can dictate who can or ca n't become a shareholder ( this is true in general , but I 'm sure there are loopholes ) . Prior to Google 's IPO I could not buy shares in Google at any price . The reason Google was " forced " to go public is the 500 shareholder rule . At a high level , with 500 shareholders the company is forced to do some extra financial accounting and they no longer can control who owns a share of the company , allowing me to purchase shares of google at that point . At that point , it typically becomes in the companies best interest to go public . See <URL> about Google approaching the 500 shareholder limit in 2003 . Further , Sorkin is not quite correct that " securities laws mandate that the company go public " if by " go public " we mean list on a stock exchange , available for general purchase . Securities laws mandate what has to be reported in financial reporting and when you have to report it . Securities laws also can dictate restrictions on ownership of stock and if a company can impose their own restrictions . A group of investors can not force a company onto a stock exchange . If shares of Facebook are already for sale to anyone , then having > 500 shareholders will force Facebook to file more paperwork with the SEC , it wo n't force Facebook onto the NYSE or NASDAQ . When that point is reached , it may be in Facebook 's best interest to have an IPO , but they will not be required by law to do so . Update : <URL> discusses likely Facebook IPO in 2012 . When companies have more than 500 shareholders , they 're required to make significant financial disclosures -- though they can choose to remain private and keep their stock from trading publicly . However , most companies facing mandatory disclosures opt to go public . The Securities and Exchange Commission gives businesses lots of time to prepare for that milestone . Companies have until 120 days after the end of the fiscal year in which they cross the 500-shareholder line to begin making their disclosures . If Facebook tips the scale this year , that gives it until April 2012 to start filing financial reports .
The Employee Benefits Security Administration within the US Department of Labor is tasked with keeping track of pension and 401K programs . The even have a website to search for <URL> : it helps participants and others find out whether a particular plan is in the process of being , or has been , terminated and the name of the Qualified Termination Administrator ( QTA ) responsible for the termination . The Employee Benefits Security Administration discuss all types of details regarding retirement programs . This document <URL> has a lot of details including this : If your former employer has gone out of business , arrangements should have been made so a plan official remains responsible for the payment of benefits and other plan business . If you are entitled to benefits and are unable to contact the plan administrator , contact EBSA electronically at askebsa.dol.gov or by calling toll free at 1-866-444-3272 . There are also <URL> spread thought the United States
end question
start question
What the the advantages and disadvantages of a mortgage vs a home equity loan ?
Home equity loan is a kind of a mortgage loan . So you 're basically asking " what 's better : mortgage or mortgage ? " . Home equity loan is usually taken as a second mortgage on the house , while you 're still paying the initial one , but accumulated some equity in the property . In the scenario you 're describing , there 's no " second mortgage " , there 's only one mortgage . You can call it " The wonderful glorious bestest ever mortgage " or you can call it " home equity mortgage " , and it would make no difference to the essence . Look at the numbers , and decide which terms are better , not which name sounds nicer to you .
Your only option might be finding a seller-financed property with a motivated seller who is willing to take the risk of loaning you money . However , be prepared to pay a hefty rate on that loan if you can even pull it off .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
In my experience ( and I 'm a programmer , not an accountant ) it comes down to this : LLC gives you the liability protection of a Corporation without the hassle of keeping minutes of meetings and filing 2 sets of taxes . Sole Proprietor is cheap &amp; easy , but does not give you any liability protection If you get paid ' as a person ' , the employer is expected to use a W2 if they pay you more than , I think , $ 600 By liability protection , I mean that if you should screw something up ( or the client believes you broke something ) , who 's responsible ? With an LLC or Corporation it 's typically the company that 's responsible , so they could sue the company for all its assets , but could n't take your house . However , as a Sole Proprietor , you 're personal assets are not protected . There are exceptions when your LLC or Corp might make you liable personally , for example if you have conducted them such that there is a blurred line between personality and company ( for instance I think if you do n't have a separate account ) LLCs are also state specific , so the rules ( and costs ) vary state to state .
Short answer Get a buy-to-let mortgage from another lender . Once that 's done , arrange to port the current residential mortgage to the new property . Longer answer I asked [ Santander ] if I could get a new BTL mortgage product for my current house to continue renting it out , then move my current mortgage onto a new house . They said no , I have to sell the house . It 's possible that Santander said that because they do n't generally offer BTL mortgages . Start by <URL> . Because of the potential complications of dealing with two mortgages and two banks , you may want to use a mortgage broker . I 've had good experiences with <URL> , but others are available . Even if you pick your own mortgage , it 's useful to have someone else to harrass the banks for you . Note that brokers do charge for their services . Once you have actually applied for the BTL and have received the mortgage offer , then contact Santander to port your existing mortgage . Although in theory you will be moving an existing mortgage , in practise it 's treated as if you were applying for a brand new one ( albeit with the old terms and rate ) , so you 'll have to go through the whole process again . The important thing with regard to the BTL is to show that your rental property is not a liability . So long as , with the BTL mortgage , it 's not going to make a loss , Santander are likely to ignore it altogether . If that all works , you then arrange with your solicitor for completion on the two properties to happen simultaneously . Re " keeping it in the family " : note that some BTL mortgages specifically prohibit you from letting your property to family members . Source : me ! I 've previously done exactly what I describe above . EDIT : Regarding potentially selling or gifting to family : if doing this for a number that is well below market rate , there could be potential tax implications ; you would need to consult an accountant and/or solicitor . There are other options ; for example , if you wanted a family member to share responsibility for the BTL mortgage , you could change ownership of the property so that you own it as <URL> with unequal shares , with your relative owning a nominal share ( e.g. 1 % , or # 1 ) . Again , this is something to discuss with your solicitor before applying for the BTL .
I read up on it and saw that the IRS can " charge " the loan provider on interest even if the loan provider does n't charge interest , but this is normally mitigated by the 0 % interest being considered a gift and as long as it 's below X amount your fine . Yes , this sums it up . X is the amount of the gift exemption , the $ 14K . However , you must differ between loan with no interest and loan with no paying back . With loan with no interest you 're still giving a statutory gift of the IRS mandated minimum interest . However , the principal is expected to be repaid to you and you must show that this expectation is reasonably fulfilled . If you can not ( i.e. : you gave a " loan " with no intention of it being paid back ) , then the IRS will recharacterize the whole amount as the gift , and you 'll be on the hook for gift tax for the amounts above the exemption . What defines a loan vs a gift in terms of the IRS , is it simply that the loan will be paid back , or is it only considered a loan if a promisary note is made ? As I said - you must be able to show that the loan is indeed a loan , even if it is with no interest . I.e. : it is being repaid , it is treated as a loan by all parties , and is not an attempt to evade gift tax . Promissory note is not a must , but will definitely be helpful in showing that . But without the de-facto repayment of the loan , it will be hard to argue that it is not a gift , even if you have a promissory note . That means , you should make a loan in such a way that the borrower will ( begin ) repaying it reasonably soon , so that you can show payment schedule being followed and money moving back to you . Reasonably soon is not of course defined in a statute , so do consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your state on how to structure the loan so that it will not appear as an attempt to evade the gift tax . Are there any limits on how big a loan can be ? No , but keep in mind that even with <URL> ( published by the IRS monthly , see the link ) , with large enough loan you can exceed the gift tax exemption . Also , keep in mind that interest is taxable income to you . Even if you gift it back ( i.e. : the statutory interest ) .
I think Fidelity has a very nice introduction to <URL> that may give you the background you need . People love to put stocks in categories however the distinction is more of a range and can change over time . JB King makes a good point that for most people the two stocks you mentioned would both be considered value right now as they are both stable companies with a significant dividend . You are correct though Pfizer might be considered " more growth . " A more drastic example would be the difference between Target and Amazon . Both are retail companies that sell a wide variety of products . Target is a value company : a established company with stable revenues that uses its income to give a fairly stable dividend . Amazon is a growth company : that is reinvesting its revenues back into the corporation to grow itself as fast as possible . The price of the Amazon stock reflects what people think will be future growth ( future income ) for the company . Whereas Target 's price appears to be based on the idea that future income will be similar to current income . You can see why growth companies like Amazon might be more risky as that growth you paid a high price for may not be realized , but the payout may be much higher as well .
To clarify , the IRS defines a qualified distribution is a distribution that 's used to pay for a <URL> . In the context of 529 plans , these are Tuition and fees required to enroll at or attend an eligible educational institution Course-related expenses , such as fees , books , supplies , and equipment that are required for the courses at the eligible educational institution . These items must be required of all students in your course of instruction . savingforcollege.com has a <URL> for tax-free 529 distributions . Benefits You mostly covered this benefit in your question , but the tax-exempt growth is a major benefit . Contributions to a 529 plan grow tax-free , and assuming you use the funds for educational purposes , you 're not required to pay taxes on the earnings or withdrawals . This is less of a benefit if you 're looking to start grad school immediately or in the next year or so , but it 's still a benefit . Depending on which state you live in , your state <URL> if you choose to invest in a state plan . This might be useful if you 're starting grad school and do n't have enough time to achieve a lot of tax-free growth . If your state offers tax deductions on your contributions , your account can function as a pass-through account , and if you itemize , you 'll reap a tax savings on your contributions to the plan anyway . Drawbacks As you said , one potential drawback is that if you do n't use up the money in the account and decide to withdraw the remainder for personal use , you 're required to pay taxes on it in addition to the 10 % penalty on the earnings . However , you can change the beneficiary of the plan from yourself to someone else , and the new beneficiary can still take advantage of tax-free growth on the remaining funds and use these earnings for educational purposes . Depending on the value of the account , <URL> , so consult a tax professional before doing this just to make sure . Depending on the 529 plans available to you , you may face fees that negate any potential tax deductions . If you have a longer horizon , you may be able to choose an asset allocation that earns you enough tax-free growth to negate the effect of these fees , but with a short horizon , it 's definitely something worth considering . If you choose to invest in an out-of-state 529 plan , your local state <URL> . Some states offer 529 prepaid tuition programs ; these are usually only for undergraduate education , and some of them require that all tuition credits be used by the age of 30 . Obviously , check to make sure that whatever plan you invest in ( if it 's a prepaid tuition program ) will work for your graduate education and that you 're aware of any limitations to its use . Other points I mentioned growth above . If you have a short horizon , it 's probably best to choose an asset allocation that will provide you some stability and maybe some income , but not a high level of risk that could cost you a lot of the value . <URL> recommends bond and/or interest funds instead of equity funds for people with a short time horizon . I want to mention one more point because a ) a lot of people do n't know about it , and b ) it 's somewhat complicated , but can be beneficial in some cases . If you incur an unrealized loss in your 529 account and decide to cash out the account ( perhaps because you need the money now to pay your educational expenses and ca n't wait for a market reversal ) , <URL> . From the section titled " Losses on [ Qualified Tuition Plan ] Investments " : If you have a loss on your investment in a QTP account , you may be able to take the loss on your income tax return . You can take the loss only when all amounts from that account have been distributed and the total distributions are less than your unrecovered basis . Your basis is the total amount of contributions to that QTP account . You claim the loss as a miscellaneous itemized deduction on Schedule A ( Form 1040 ) , line 23 ( Schedule A ( Form 1040NR ) , line 9 ) , subject to the 2 % - of-adjusted-gross-income limit . It 's worth at least knowing about something like this in the event that you invest in a 529 plan with a short horizon but lose money right before you need it . The situation may be <URL> if you receive state-level deductions , you 're subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax , etc. . If you find yourself faced with this situation , talk to a tax professional with experience dealing with 529 plans who has heard of this deduction .
Well , you can just say that 1 dollar contributed = one share and pay out dividends based on number of shares . That makes it pretty easy to make things fair based . There are pros and cons with this pooling approach . Pros Much lower collective trading costs . If the five of you banded together that would be 5 times the brokers fees . Some investments require you to have a minimum investment ; having 5x the money will likely expand your investment horizon . More heads thinking about things will improve your expected returns . Division of labor means you can each specialize in parts of the market . You get to learn about investing , and build a set of buddies you can go to for advice and opinions . Cons 1000 is not a lot of money -- I dropped that much into an IRA when I was in grad school . Tax complications ; you can only contribute earned money into an IRA , and they 'll frown upon everyone dumping money into one person 's account . So you 're forgoing tax advantages . Liquidity fights . Everyone is going to have different ideas of when to pull money out . Even if you write it down on a prospectus that nobody can withdraw money for 3 years , someone is gon na need the money to make rent or get tired of losing money and demand a withdrawl . Opportunity costs . A number of college aged students carry credit card debt , which will cost more than an equal amount invested in the market will earn . I do n't recommend this , but it stands to reason you could find friends carrying CC debt and loan them money at a cheaper rate to pay off the high interest CC with .
This question brings back memories . Short answer : get the three car garage ! It 's the best $ 5k you 'll ever spend . Long answer : I bought my house many years ago , new construction , and made a choice to get the model with the 2-car garage instead of the one with the 3-car garage across the street because the price difference was $ 15k . The houses were otherwise identical . My thinking at the time : " No way I 'm spending $ 15k for a garage spot ! " Oh , the regrets I have today ! I envy my neighbors with the extra garage space . Yes , I only have two cars , but storage space is tight , my workbench is impossible to use without backing the car out to the driveway , and I wish I had spent the money . There will be another driver in the house in a few years and I do n't have the option of garaging a third car . How I wish I could go back in time and slap some sense into my younger self . For $ 5k , I think it 's a no-brainer . In 10 + years , my guess is that the houses with the 3-car garage will have appreciated much more than $ 5k in value than the houses with just 2-car garages . Like I said , I have regrets .
Like JoeTaxpayer said , I do n't know of any difference between the backdoor and a regular Roth IRA contribution besides the issue with existing pre-tax IRA money . So if it is your practice to contribute at the beginning of the year ( good for you , most people wait until the last minute ) , then doing a backdoor seems like the safe choice . Some people have speculated that , hypothetically , the IRS could use the " step transaction doctrine " to treat it as a single direct contribution to a Roth IRA ( which then would be disallowed and cause you a penalty until you take it out ) , but I have never heard of this happening to anyone . As for the paperwork , you just need to fill out one extra form at tax time , Form 8606 ( you need to complete two parts of it , one for the non-deductible contribution , and one for the conversion ) . It is pretty straightforward . ( Although I 've found that it is a pain to do it in tax software . ) Another option would be for you to contribute to a Roth IRA now , but when you discover that you 're over the limit at the end of the year , re-characterize it as a Traditional contribution and then convert it back to Roth . But this way is not good because then there is a long time between the Traditional contribution and the Roth conversion , and earnings during this time will be taxed at conversion .
The obvious advantage is turning your biggest liability into an income-generating asset . The downside are : ( 1 ) , you have to find tenants ( postings , time to show the place , credit/background check , and etc ) ( 2 ) , you have to deal with tenants ( collection of rent , repairs of things that broke by itself , complaints from neighbors , termination , and etc ) ( 3 ) , you have to deal with the repairs In many ways , it 's no different from running another ( small ) business , so it all boils down to how much time you are willing to invest and how handy you are in doing reno 's and/or small repairs around the house . For profitability/ROI analysis , you want to assume collection of 11 months of rent per year ( i.e. assume tenant does n't renew after year , so you have the worst case scenario ) and factor in all the associated expense ( be honest ) . Renting out a second property is a bit tricky as you often have to deal with a large operating expense ( i.e. mortgage ) , and renting a basement apartment is not bad financially and you will have to get used to have " strangers " downstairs .
In my opinion , every person , regardless of his or her situation , should be keeping track of their personal finances . In addition , I believe that everyone , regardless of their situation , should have some sort of budget/spending plan . For many people , it is tempting to ignore the details of their finances and not worry about it . After all , the bank knows how much money I have , right ? I get a statement from them each month that shows what I have spent , and I can always go to the bank 's website and find out how much money I have , right ? Unfortunately , this type of thinking can lead to several different problems . Overspending . In olden days , it was difficult to spend more money than you had . Most purchases were made in cash , so if your wallet had cash in it , you could spend it , and when your wallet was empty , you were required to stop spending . In this age of credit and electronic transactions , this is no longer the case . It is extremely easy to spend money that you do n't yet have , and find yourself in debt . Debt , of course , leads to interest charges and future burdens . Unpreparedness for the future . Without a plan , it is difficult to know if you have saved up enough for large future expenses . Will you have enough money to pay the water bill that only shows up once every three months or the property tax bill that only shows up once a year ? Will you have enough money to pay to fix your car when it breaks ? Will you have enough money to replace your car when it is time ? How about helping out your kids with college tuition , or funding your retirement ? Without a plan , all of these are very difficult to manage without proper accounting . Anxiety . Not having a clear picture of your finances can lead to anxiety . This can happen whether or not you are actually overspending , and whether or not you have enough saved up to cover future expenses , because you simply do n't know if you have adequately covered your situation or not . Making a plan and doing the accounting necessary to ensure you are following your plan can take the worry out of your finances . Fear of spending . There was an <URL> who was not at all in trouble with his finances , yet was always afraid to spend any money , because he did n't have a budget/spending plan in place . If you spend money on a vacation , are you putting your property tax bill in jeopardy ? With a good budget in place , you can know for sure whether or not you will have enough money to pay your future expenses and can spend on something else today . This can all be done with or without the aid of software , but like many things , a computer makes the job easier . A good personal finance program will do two things : Keeps track of your spending and balances , apart from your bank . The bank can only show you things that have cleared the bank . If you set up future payments ( outside of the bank ) , or you write a check that has not been cashed yet , or you spend money on a credit card and have not paid the bill yet , these will not be reflected in your bank balance online . However , if you manually enter these things into your own personal finance program , you can see how much money you actually have available to spend . Lets you plan for future spending . The spending plan , or budget , lets you assign a job to every dollar that you own . By doing this , you wo n't spend rent money at the bar , and you wo n't spend the car insurance money on a vacation . I 've <URL> on how some of these software packages work . To answer your question about double-entry accounting : Some software packages do use true double-entry accounting ( GnuCash , Ledger ) and some do not ( YNAB , EveryDollar , Mvelopes ) . In my opinion , double-entry accounting is an unnecessary complication for personal finances . If you do n't already know what double-entry accounting is , stick with one of the simpler solutions .
Pre-nuptial agreements are typically used to protect assets that you have before a marriage in case of divorce . If you do n't have a lot of assets to protect , then there 's not much point . If you do have a lot of assets , then it might be worth having such an agreement , especially in the case of a second marriage where both spouses have kids from before , and they want to be very clear about what the new spouse gets vs. what the kids get . Relationship-wise , bringing up the topic of a pre-nup can be touchy , because the other person can feel like you do n't trust them , or that you do n't expect the marriage to last . And , it is possible that , if you spend too much time and energy thinking about what should happen when the marriage ends , you might not be putting enough time and energy into thinking about how to make the marriage last .
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
As mentioned before - you 're over-thinking the hard-pull issue . But do try to make the preapproval as close to the actual bidding as possible - because it costs money . At least from my experience , you 'll get charged the application fee for preapproval , while " pre-qualification " is usually free . If you 're seriously shopping , I find it hard to believe that you ca n't find a house within 3 months . If you 're already in the process and your offer has been accepted and you opened the escrow - I believe the preapproval will be extended if it expires before closing . I 've just had a similar case from the other side , as a buyer , and the seller had a short-sale approval that expired before closing . It was extended to make the deal happen , and that 's when the bank is actually loosing money . So do n't worry about that . If you have n't even started the process and the preapproval expired , you might have to start it all over again from scratch , including all the fees . The credit score is a minor issue ( unless you do it every 2-3 months ) .
Institutions and market makers tend to try and stay delta neutral , meaning that for every options contract they buy or write , they buy or sell the equivalent underlying asset . This , as a theory , is called max pain , which is more of an observation of this behavior by retail investors . This as a reality is called delta hedging done by market makers and institutional investors . The phenomenom is that many times a stock gets pinned to a very even number at a particular price on options expiration days ( like 500.01 or 499.99 by closing bell ) . At options expiration dates , many options contracts are being closed ( instutitions and market makers are typically on the other side of those trades , to keep liquidity ) , so for every one standard 100 share contract the market maker wrote , they bought 100 shares of the underlying asset , to remain delta neutral . When the contract closes ( or get rid of the option ) they sell that 100 shares of the underlying asset . At mass volume of options traded , this would cause noticeable downward pressure , similarly for other trades it would cause upward pressure as institutions close their short positions against options they had bought . The result is a pinned stock right above or below an expiration that previously had a lot of open interest . This tends to happen in more liquid stocks , than less liquid ones , to answer that question . As they have more options series and more strike prices . No , this would not be illegal , in the US attempting to " mark the close " is supposedly prohibited but this would n't count as it , the effect of derivatives on stock prices is far beyond the SEC 's current enforcement regime :) although an active area of research
In the old days , a well-written mortgage was based on the mortgage and property tax being less than 28 % of one 's gross income , and total debt including these , no more than 36 % . A 20 % downpayment was required . I dare say that if these rules had been followed , the bubble would not have occurred , and had it still occurred it would not have been as severe . Let 's look at that 28 % number . A $ 60K income gives you $ 1400/mo for the mortgage and property tax . At 5 % , a $ 200K loan ( 30 yr fixed ) is $ 1074 . That leaves $ 326 x 12 = $ 3912 for taxes , more than enough in most towns . So , in conclusion , you can get a mortgage of just over 3X your income and stay within the guidelines if you put that nice downpayment . I am a fan of only going 2X , a $ 135K mortgage . Update - The rates are lower , in 2013 we still see the 30 year as low as 4 % . The same $ 1074 payment will support a $ 225K loan .
Why does n't it seem right to you ? The lender financed the house and has the first right claim ( mortgage ) on it , so if you have any insurance proceeds they 're first offsetting your debt to the lender . Same as if you were selling the house - first the loan is paid off , whatever is left goes to you . If the property is not lost , then the proceeds are going to you and you keep paying the mortgage . So if a pipe burst and you need to replace the flooring , the insurance will cover it , and you 'll get the proceeds . If the building is lost and you 're paid the fair market/rebuild value , then you first need to pay off the mortgage . Its standard .
A lender lends money to a person or institution . A creditor is owed money by the person or institution . Many times they are equal . But if you owe money to somebody they are a creditor . You could have paid with a check , but it bounced . Or you contracted them for a service , and then never paid for that service . Yes technically a creditor did offer a short term that was supposed to be paid within X days of being billed . Sometimes a creditor works the other way also . You gave a deposit to company X for them to remodel your kitchen . They never start the job . They now owe you a refund of your deposit . You are now a creditor .
end question
start question
Bank of the Sierra : Are they legit ? How can the checking interest APY be so high ?
The FDIC is pretty confident about them being legit . <URL> ( type in Bank Of The Sierra in the name field and search on that ) You got to realize how much money they will make if you use them per the agreement . Every credit card / debit transaction gets them some cash . <URL> even on debit cards . Then there is a flat fee the merchant pays for accepting the credit card between .25 and .50 per transaction . Even at 12 transactions a month , the bank is looking at making around $ 6/month . Probably more because who uses a debit card just 12 times a month . It would be convenient for most people to juse use it all the time . Does 4.09 % APY beat $ 6/month ? You would have to keep a balance of <URL> to cost more than you earn . And if you keep more than $ 2k in the account , they have other ways to make money off of you . I would also assume they make money on the bill pay and direct deposit side of things , but I ca n't speak for certain about that . Bottom line is this seems like a good deal to attract customers , they would rather make a bit less profit then BofA to grow their business . They are betting their offer restrictions will change your habits and make you more profitable to them .
We tried to negotiate the price for some but the sellers were always firm . We ended buying one in a dealership with warranty within the same price and mileage range . Why people are selling cars in Craigslist for much above the kbb prices cars that are not even worth that ? Apparently they are able to get those prices . If they were n't , they 'd compromise eventually . Look for older advertisements where people may be feeling more desperate . If you ca n't find them , then that means that the car is selling . They 're right about the prices ; Kelley Blue Book ( KBB ) is wrong . It 's interesting that the dealership has n't caught up yet . If the used car market on Craigslist is robust , it should carry over eventually . I would expect dealership prices to be noticeably higher on average . The warranty if nothing else . Perhaps Craigslist has too good a reputation . People are buying there even though they 'd be better off with a dealer . Easy enough to fix . Go to a dealer and offer to sell cars for them ( for commission ) . Advertise on Craigslist . Buyers should prefer warrantied cars over non-warrantied cars at the same price . With cars selling like hot cakes , the dealer will increase prices . KBB will adjust their numbers . Auction was n't a good option since we needed the car quickly and quality there varies and we do n't really know how to deal in auctions . I would n't recommend buying a car at auction unless you plan to buy a lot of cars . The quality is all over the place . You can get a great deal , but you are just as likely to get a lemon . If you buy a lot of cars , it will even out over time . But if you just need one , you can get royally screwed . Auctions are designed for buyers who are constantly processing cars . If one is a lemon , they can make it up on the next one . The low prices at auction are a sort of reverse insurance . They charge less because they ca n't guarantee quality . So let the dealers buy at auction and fix up the cars with a warranty . Because they do it often , it works out in the long run for them . For an individual buying one car , I would n't recommend it . Too much risk with too few options for mitigation . I realize this is just reinforcing what you already thought . I just do n't want other people to start diving into auctions without understanding how they work . Yes , cars can be cheaper there . But the reason is that auctions sell anything , including cars that the seller is dumping because they are lemons . In bulk , the risk is manageable . Individually , it is n't . You may get lucky , or you may get a turkey that costs you more than it benefits you .
Duration is the time weighted average maturity , more or less . The value of the ETF will drop as a function of the duration times the change in rates . For example , if the duration is 8 years , a .1 % increase in rates will cause a drop of .8 % .
There is nothing to worry about . There is absolutely nothing unusual about moving money between your own accounts , even if they are in separate financial institutions . I moved $ 200,000 when I was getting ready to by my house ; I have moved similar sized chunks for other purposes . A large transfer may get some attention to make sure you are n't doing anything illegal with the money and are n't being scammed ... but if the transaction is legitimate , that attention is harmless .
I 'm not sure if the rules in Canada and the US are the same . I 'm as amazed as you are by the amounts of debts people have , but I can see how this credit can be extended . Generally , with good credit history and above average pay - it is not unheard of to get about $ 100K credit limit with a bunch of credit cards . What you do with that after that depends on your own ability to manage your finances and discipline . Good credit history is defined by paying your credit cards on time with at least minimum payment amount ( which is way lower than the actual statement amount ) . Above average pay is $ 60K + . So you can easily have tons of debt , yet be considered " low risk " with good credit history . And that 's the most lucrative market for the credit card issuers - people who do not default , but also have debt and pay interest .
The simple interest rate for an investment that costs $ 10,000 and returns $ 10,500 in 13 days is 5 % . To calculate the annual effective compound interest rate , the equation is where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . To calculate the annual effective continuously compounded interest rate , the equation is also where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . Continuous compounding is more precise and easier to manipulate but possibly not as intuitive .
ACH transfers are reversible and traceable . So what 's stopping them is the ease and the speed with which they would be caught . When you give a check - you have to provide some information to the payee so that they could cash it . You ca n't withhold the bank or the account number - how would they charge you ? So it has to be on it , and if it is on it - it can be put on any other ( fake ) check . That is why checks come also with your signature , and are always available for you to inspect when they 're cashed . If you notice something out of the ordinary ( check you did n't give ? ACH transfer you did n't authorize ? ) on your statement - it is your responsibility to notify the bank within X period of time ( 60 days , I think ) of the statement , and it will be dealt with . So the best way to protect yourself would be to keep an eye on your account and verify that the transactions that you see are all authorized , and do it frequently . Keeping large amounts of cash on your checking account is never a good idea , regardless . Also , since checks are inherently unsafe - try to only give checks to people you trust , and use bill-pay or credit cards with anyone else .
Specifically on the subject of maxing out your 401k , there are several downsides : The employer match usually only applies to the first 6 % . Some employers offer no match at all . You listed the match as a pro , but I think it should be pointed out that you can usually get this benefit without maxing out your plan . The investment options are limited . Usually there is at least one fund available from all the common investment classes , but these may not be your preferred funds if you were able to choose for yourself . Fees can be very high . If you are working for a small to medium size company , the fees for each fund will often be higher than for the same funds in a plan offered by a large company . Fees are usually related to the dollar amount of assets under management . Each person has a different tax situation , so if you are single and making 6 figures , you might still be in the 25 % bracket even after maxing out your 401k , but the same person filing jointly with a spouse that makes less could get down to the 15 % bracket with a smaller contribution . I meet my retirement savings goals without maxing out the 401k . As long as the amount is above the employer match amount , my second priority is to funnel as much money as possible in to my IRA ( because I get lower fees and better investment options from Vanguard ) .
From my days in e-commerce they break down like this ? The company does n't know a debit from a credit card . Got the Visa logo , then it is a Visa through the company 's payment gateway . The gateway talks to the bank and that is where the particulars for money is figured out . When I programmed gateway interfaces , I had the option to " authorize " or check for funds ( which did n't reserve anything , just verified funds existed ) , run for batch ( which put a hold on the funds and collected them at the end of the night ) or just take the money . Most places did a verify during the early checkout stages and then did a batch at the end of the night . The nightly batch allows a merchant to cancel a transaction without getting charged a fee . The " authorize " does n't mean the money is tied up , although that might be your banks policy . Furthermore , an authorize can only last for so many days . This also explains why most of your banks do n't report your transactions to you the day of . There is a bunch more activity on your card than the transactions that complete .
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
Dividends are normally paid in cash , so do n't generally affect your portfolio aside from a slight increase to ' cash ' . You get a check for them , or your broker would deposit the funds into a money-market account for you . There is sometimes an option to re-invest dividends , See Westyfresh 's answer regarding Dividend Re-Investment Plans . As Tom Au described , the dividends are set by the board of directors and announced . Also as he indicated just before the ' record ' date , a stock which pays dividends is worth slightly more ( reflecting the value of the dividend that will be paid to anyone holding the stock on the record date ) and goes down by the dividend amount immediately after that date ( since you 'd now have to hold the stock till the next record date to get a dividend ) In general unless there 's a big change in the landscape ( such as in late 2008 ) most companies pay out about the same dividend each time , and changes to this are sometimes seen by some as ' indicators ' of company health and such news can result in movement in the stock price . When you look at a basic quote on a ticker symbol there is usually a line for Div/yeild which gives the amount of dividend paid per share , and the relative yeild ( as a percentage of the stock price ) . If a company has been paying dividends , this field will have values in it , if a company does not pay a dividend it will be blank or say NA ( depending on where you get the quote ) . This is the easiest way to see if a company pays a dividend or not . for example if you look at this quote for Google , you can see it pays no dividend Now , in terms of telling when and how much of a dividend has been paid , most financial sites have the option when viewing a stock chart to show the dividend payments . If you expand the chart to show at least a year , you can see when and how much was paid in terms of dividends . For example you can see from this chart that MSFT pays dividends once a quarter , and used to pay out 13 cents , but recently changed to 16 cents . if you were to float your mouse over one of those icons it would also give the date the dividend was paid .
<URL> has a likely scenario for when Greece defaults on its sovereign debt : What happens when Greece defaults . Here are a few things : Every bank in Greece will instantly go insolvent . The Greek government will nationalise every bank in Greece . The Greek government will forbid withdrawals from Greek banks . To prevent Greek depositors from rioting on the streets , Argentina-2002-style ( when the Argentinian president had to flee by helicopter from the roof of the presidential palace to evade a mob of such depositors ) , the Greek government will declare a curfew , perhaps even general martial law . Greece will redenominate all its debts into " New Drachmas " or whatever it calls the new currency ( this is a classic ploy of countries defaulting ) The New Drachma will devalue by some 30-70 per cent ( probably around 50 per cent , though perhaps more ) , effectively defaulting 0n 50 per cent or more of all Greek euro-denominated debts . As <URL> says , there 's more at the link , all depressing . I think you 're focusing too much on Greece leaving the euro and not enough on why Greece would leave the euro . Greece would leave the euro precisely so that it could pay back its debt in a new currency worth less than valuable euros . The new currency will devalue , since that 's the point of leaving . Along the way the government forces its citizens to take the new currency . The money they have in Greek banks will be converted to the new currency : The citizens do n't have a choice to keep their euros .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
Yes , if it 's an American style option . American style options may be exercised at any time prior to expiration ( even if they 're not in-the-money ) . Generally , you are required to deliver or accept delivery of the underlying by the beginning of the next trading day . If you are short , you may be chosen by the clearinghouse to fulfill the exercise ( a process called " assignment " ) . Because the clearinghouse is the counter-party to every options trade , you can be assigned even if the specific person who purchased the option you wrote did n't exercise , but someone else who holds a long position did . Similarly , you might not be assigned if that person did exercise . The clearinghouse randomly chooses a brokerage to fulfill an assignment , and the brokerage will randomly choose an individual account . If you 're going to be writing options , especially using spreads , you need to have a plan ahead of time on what to do if one of your legs gets assigned . This is more likely to happen just before a dividend payment , if the payment is more than the remaining time value .
It generally does n't matter since the Government guarantees accounts at most banks . Just make sure it is FDIC insured ( or NCUA if it is a credit union ) and you will be fine even if the bank goes insolvent . In any event , I 'd strongly suggest joining a credit union instead of a bank . The fees are much lower and I 've found them much more customer service oriented . As to the morons who caused the bank mess , you may be in trouble there . I 'd argue that Gov ' t policies were probably more to blame for that than banks . Regardless of fault , and even during the worst of that mess there was never any hint that anyone 's bank accounts were at risk . The problem was that a lot of people had loans they could n't afford to pay because there was too much incentive to make risky loans and not enough downside to the banks originating the loans when those loans went predictably bad .
Some ideas : You could begin shorting Canadian bank stocks that are issuing all the debt that may not be paid back . You have to be careful here . If things implode like they did in the US then the Canadian central bank ( Bank of Canada ) will bail out the " too big to fail " banks by printing money to cover their losses . You may want to stay away from the Big 5 - Royal Bank of Canada , Toronto-Dominion Bank , Bank of Nova Scotia , Bank of Montreal , and Cannadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and short stock of smaller banks . Money was still made , however , shorting even the big banks : You could short construction companies that are currently benefiting from the artifically low interest rates . I do n't know of the major construction companies in Canada . If things were to crash , where are people going to put their money ? This would be a good area to go long . In the US many piled into US treasuries . You could buy some Canadian treasuries and if the crash occurs , sell your treasuries when everyone is looking to buy . Buy stock in retail companies that offer very cheap goods . When the correction happens people become very frugal with their money : Buy stock in companies that produce goods that are desired in countries where economies are growing ( think China and Brazil ) . Canada is very fortunate in this regard with lots of mining and other natural resource companies ( e.g. Potash , Barrick Gold , etc. ) .
They borrowed it from the people , and typically to finance wars and military spending . For example , Wikipedia suggests that the Bank of England <URL> It 's a game that everyone has to play once started ; if Napoleon buys an army on credit , you 'll have to raise an equal amount or face quite a problem . As for why they 've grown so large , it 's because governments are quite skilled at owing large sums of money . Only a small portion of the debt comes due in full at a given moment , and they constantly reissue new debt via auction to keep it rolling . So as long as they can make coupon ( interest ) and the lump sum at maturity , it 's not difficult to keep up . Imagine how much credit card debt you could rack up if you only ever had to pay interest . This game will continue for as long as people lend . And there are plenty of lenders . There 's pensions , mutual funds and endowments , which find public debt typically safer than stocks . And money market funds , which target 1 dollar NAV and only invest in the " safest " AAA-rated bonds to protect it . There 's central banks , which can buy and sell public debt to manipulate inflation and exchange rates . Absent some kind of UN resolution to ban lending , or perhaps a <URL> , these debts will likely continue to grow . You think they " collectively owe more money than can exist " , but there 's a lot of wealth in the world . Most nations owe less than a year 's GDP . For example , the US 's total wealth is in the neighborhood of 50 trillion .
I 'm assuming that compound interest is paid monthly . In that case , the interest rate is ~ 0.9162 % per month ( i.e. an APR of 11.57 % ) . The following formula is the one you are interested in : sum _ { y = 0 } ^ 9 ( sum _ { m = 0 } ^ 11 ( 500 +50 * y ) * ( 1 + T ) ^ ( 120-12 * y-m ) ) = 149028 I did n't attempt to solve this , but instead used trial and error . The value T = 0.0091624 works nicely ; you can verify this in <URL> . Getting at APR/EAR is simply ( 1 + T ) ^ 12 - 1 .
The interest rate is 13.5 % The Reserve Bank of India has made it mandatory to quote all variable loans as " Base Rate + Spread " . The Reserve Bank has given a guideline / formula to calculate the Base Rate . All loans should be above Base Rate . Currently the Base Rate for SBI is at 10 % . So you are getting a variable rate of Interest . If the base rate changes from 10 to 11 % , your interest will become 14.5 % . If the base rate goes down from 10 to 9 % , you rate will become 12.5 % . If you make monthly re-payments on time throughout the loan duration , then you will get a discount of 1 % in the rate of interest .
Yup . It 's totally legit and it is not a money market account . Though interest rates are so low across the board , this is about as high as savings accounts get and so it is called a " high-yield savings account " . A number of banks offer these . There are different offerings nation-wide versus local/state . I would use this <URL> at DepositAccounts.com to find them and the blog is very good with updates and trends . Here are some well advertised accounts : <URL> 1.35 % <URL> 1.30 % <URL> 1.25 % plus a 10 % bonus <URL> 1.20 % <URL> 1.05 % <URL> 1.00 % If you do n't already have a rewards checking account , get one of those first . DepositAccounts.com will direct you to these as well . A reasonable interest rate on rewards checking is 2.5 % and up . So much better . The only catches are reasonable - online statements , direct deposit or autopay , and use your debit card 10 or 12 times a month for any transaction amount ( groceries , coffee , gas - easy ) . The other major thing I would consider when opening any account is where you live and the current accounts you have . If you have an AMEX card already , just use their savings account . That way you have unified accounts , faster transfers , your personal information is n't spread thinly around all different banks , you have more leverage with the company as a " long-standing customer " , etc. . As far as using a bank in the state where you live , it simplifies taxes . Two more things : I would always choose a credit union over a bank ( and many have excellent rewards checking accounts ) . If you use Mint , Yodlee , or other financial software , make sure the potential new bank integrates with that service .
end question
start question
Is there value in using a credit card for the sake of using it ?
There is a benefit to using it , but you only need to make 1-2 charges a year per card to get the benefit . That is enough to keep the account considered active and help your credit history length . In your situation I 'd say buy a lunch/dinner on each card a few times a year and stop using them until you have all your cards down to the point where you can pay them all off each month .
How you can pay your rent is really up to your landlord . They are , however , unlikely to take a credit card , for at least two reasons . Firstly they are unlikely to have the means to take electronic payment Second , and more importantly , merchants get charged a percentage of the transaction . These fees can be quite high to them for premium cards like travel and gold cards ; three , four or even five percent of the value of the transaction . This is sometimes why you see cash discounted pricing .
No , as far as I know , a free credit report is only available by mail . Here 's <URL> with contact information for Equifax and TransUnion for ordering a credit report by mail . Also note that anyone offering free online credit reports in Canada is lying through their teeth . There are a couple sites out there ( e.g. , canadafreecreditscore.ca , freecreditreportsincanada.ca ) that offer a " free " online credit report in seconds , but that 's just the hook line and sinker for <URL> . Not sure of the details , but I generally avoid anything that 's not Equifax or TransUnion for credit reports .
After doing some investigating , my employers contract with the credit card company has a clause that basically specifies that despite my name being on the credit card , and bills being sent to me , all liability is on the company . Additionally , the employer reserves the right to garnish wages in the event of a balance on the card . So it looks like it wo n't affect my credit score . I appreciate all of the advice .
A person executing a single order during a flash crash would not be high on the suspect list for the cause of the crash , so no , I would n't worry about it at all . There is nothing wrong with taking advantage of whipsawing prices as long as you didnt cause them .
If all of the following conditions are satisfied : Your utilization is consistently high due to a very low limit relative to your monthly expenditures You pay your balance every month Your income and score is high enough to warrant a credit limit increase There are no errors in your credit files Then applying for a credit limit increase will most likely result in an increase in your score , because the high utilization will have a greater impact than a single hard inquiry that the limit increase request will generate . But if your current score and reported income is not high enough to warrant an increase , the hard inquiry will lower your score slightly . The issue here is whether the creditor thinks you could handle a higher limit , and this is significantly related to what annual income you have reported to them , as well as any other debts that they might see in your credit files . A good history of timely payment on their own account is also a factor , but not the only one . With respect to discrepancies in the scores , note that CreditKarma reports TransUnion and Equifax credit files and scores , which are based on the VantageScore 3.0 model ; Experian uses FICO . These different scoring models should be in the same ballpark but it is not unusual for there to be variations . Also , different agencies may report different information -- for example , hard inquiries are generated on different files because a given creditor may request your file from one agency and not the others . On a personal note , I myself was once in a similar situation . I distrusted credit offers ( after having been burned by predatory lenders years ago ) , and the only card I had was issued by my bank , with a very low limit . I used it constantly , but always paid it off . Eventually I realized that I was not doing myself any favors : My utilization was all over the map because it depended on whether I had just paid off the balance before the creditor reported it to the agencies I was not taking advantage of card offers with rewards , which I rightfully earned by not carrying a balance Limiting myself to a single card was risky since it is a single point of failure ; if it were lost or stolen , the inconvenience would be substantial . So , I applied for a few lines of credit , and increased my total limit by a factor of about 30 , dropping my utilization from nearly 100 % each month to less than 3 % .
Basically , a bonus is no different from your normal income . You will get the same benefits from putting the money in a 401 ( k ) as you would if you decided to put more of your normal income into a 401 ( k ) .
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
The signature actually harks back to the days before every business checked every transaction online . When charge cards were introduced modems did n't exist . Nowadays , stolen credit cards are usually reported within 24 hours and the card wo n't work . Businesses that face low fraud rates do n't bother checking . They probably figure that a certain percentage of charges get charged back because the cardholder claims that they did n't make them , and the credit card company usually just passes the cost on to the merchant , so it 's really the merchant who should be worried about fraud since he or she is going to pay for it . The real question for the merchant is whether checking signatures actually reduces charge backs . If the credit card is stolen , how hard would it be for thieves to practice the signature on the card a few times until they can reproduce it well enough to fool someone ? Businesses that face high fraud rates are often more careful . In New York City , try buying some Nikes on 34th Street , and you 'll get your signature checked , your driver 's license checked , and they 'll call up your 5th grade social studies teacher .
Typically the catch is liquidity , and the margins are pretty small , so you ca n't just leverage up and make a percentage off that . Typically you 'll be trapped in the options position .
Like for example I use transferwise to send $ x to my dad 's account in India , would it show my name as the depositor ? That would depend from bank to bank , it may or may not show your name . Would it be considered as income for my dad ? Assuming your parents are Indian Residents for tax purposes . No . It would be considered as Gift . Gifts between father and son are tax free in India and there is no limit . Any special care/precaution to take before using such services ? Not really . Just to be safe , keep a copy of the transfer instruction / details of debit to you account etc , so that if there is enquiry you have all the data handy . Edit : Clarifying the comment , if you are Resident Alien in US for tax purposes , you would be liable to Gift Tax [ Not your parents as they are Indian Residents and would follow Indian tax rules ] . As per IRS the liability of Gift tax is on Donor subject to limit of $ 14000 per year per Donee . So you and your wife can gift your father and mother $ 14000 each . i.e. $ 56000 each year . Anything more will be taxable or can be reduced from the overall estate limit .
That info is n't in the credit card transaction data record . Keep and scan your receipts .
If there is no match and you are disciplined enough to contribute without it coming directly out of your paycheck , dump the 401K . The reason : Most 401K plans have huge hidden fees built into the investment prices . You wo n't see them directly , but 3 % is not uncommon . 3 % is a horrible drag on your investment performance . Get an IRA or Roth IRA and pick something with low fees . Bonus : You will have a lot more investment choices !
Yes it is possible , as long as the broker you use allows conditional orders . I use CMC Markets in Australia , and they allow free conditional orders either when initially placing a buy order or after already buying a stock . See the Place New Order box below : Once you have selected a stock to buy , the number of shares you want to buy and at what price you can place up to 3 conditional orders . The first condition is a " Place order if ... " conditional order . Here you can place a condition that your buy order will only be placed onto the market if that condition is met first . Say the stock last traded at $ 9.80 and you only want to place your order the next day if the stock price moves above the current resistance at $ 10.00 . So you would Place order if Price is at or above $ 10.00 . So if the next day the price moves up to $ 10 or above your order will be placed onto the market . The second condition is a " Stop loss " conditional order . Here you place the price you want to sell at if the price drops to or past your stop loss price . It will only be placed on to the market if your buy order gets traded . So if you wanted to place your stop loss at $ 9.00 , you would type in 9.00 in the box after " If at or below ? " and select if you want a limit or market order . The third condition is a " Take profit " conditional order . This allows you to take profits if the stock reaches a certain price . Say you wanted to take profits at 50 % , that is if the price reached $ 15.00 . So you would type in 15.00 in the box after " If at or above ? " and again select if you want a limit or market order . These conditional orders can all be placed at the time you enter your buy order and can be edited or deleted at any time . The broker you use may have a different process for entering conditional orders , and some brokers may have many more conditional orders than these three , so investigate what is out there and if you are confused in how to use the orders with your broker , simply ask them for a demonstration in how to use them .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
Your social security number is broken into parts which you noted , the first basically what state ( variations in the number designate which county ) and the middle is group ( basically if you were to slice the country into strips vertically , which one you are in ) and finally the last 4 which do appear to be random but are actually based on unique algorithms used from each state that generate the first 3 numbers based on your DOB , last name , DOI and the last digit is what number of people have that number and you increment . So for example , if your info yields 123x and there are 4 people with that as well , you become 1235 and if you are say the 46th person with that , you become 1276 and etc. . Now the combination of state , group yield which algorithm to use and applies it to the last 4 to see if its valid , if it does n't pass validation , it will be rejected immediately and they usually send you a letter asking you to provide copies of stuff . If it passes the validation , then it allows them to request a soft inquiry of your credit with whichever bureau they happen to use , I believe TU for most , EX for far west and EQ for far east , and go from there . Just keep in mind , its not JUST your DOB and Last 4 , they also have your name . If there is a vague response from the system ( meaning matches multiple people hits ) then OSCAR will use some heuristics to find the best match with your peripheral information but if not , then it will kick it to " further review " where a human needs to take over . Hope that helps .
They 're not negotiating trade rates for you , you set the trade rates in your order . What they might have is a slightly slower system , delivering your orders a second later than the competition would . If that 's critical to you then you should look at that , otherwise look at their fees , customer support and research aids because that 's where the broker value is .
If I recall correctly , in order to activate it without another human 's intervention I had to call from a phone number they had on file . Otherwise , I believe I would have had to speak to a rep and do it that way . Presumably , that would entail some sort of verification that I was indeed the legitimate owner of the account . Another possibility , which has little to nothing to do with your account security , is management of the number-space . Cards that are not activated in some period of time ( 180 days ? ) can easily be cancelled . Whether this means that they then reuse the number or not , I have no idea . This may be question of reducing their liability , by reducing the number of possible cards that can be used fraudulently , since they ca n't be used until activated . ( Granted , if they still have the sticker on them and there are no safeguards built into the activation process , it would be a trivial matter to activate the card . )
The rebate amount is a non-qualified distribution : <URL> describes how the HSA works : Reporting Distributions on Your Return How you report your distributions depends on whether or not you use the distribution for qualified medical expenses ( defined earlier ) . If you use a distribution from your HSA for qualified medical expenses , you do not pay tax on the distribution but you have to report the distribution on Form 8889 . However , the distribution of an excess contribution taken out after the due date , including extensions , of your return is subject to tax even if used for qualified medical expenses . Follow the instructions for the form and file it with your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . If you do not use a distribution from your HSA for qualified medical expenses , you must pay tax on the distribution . Report the amount on Form 8889 and file it with your Form 1040 or Form 1040NR . If you have a taxable HSA distribution , include it in the total on Form 1040 or Form 1040NR , line 21 , and enter " HSA " and the amount on the dotted line next to line 21 . You may have to pay an additional 20 % tax on your taxable distribution . I looked at several plans regarding how to handle mistaken distributions : <URL> What if I accidentally use my HSA Visa debit card for a non-qualified expense ? To fix this problem , just bring that same amount into any local branch and tell us it was a Mistaken Distribution . We can then put the funds back into your HSA and correct the problem . <URL> You 're allowed to correct mistaken HSA withdrawals when there is clear and convincing evidence that amounts were distributed from an HSA because of a mistake of fact due to reasonable cause . You can correct the mistake by repaying the withdrawal no later than April 15 following the first year that you knew or should have known that the withdrawal was a mistake . When a correction is made , the mistaken withdrawal does not have to be included in gross income or be subject to the 6 percent additional tax , and the repayment does not count as an excess contribution . If an error is made by SelectAccount in its role as the administrator , SelectAccount will be responsible for taking appropriate corrective action . Check with your plan trustee on their procedure to fix the mistaken withdrawal .
Years ago I hired someone part time ( not virtual however ) to help me with all sorts of things . Yes it helps free up some time . However particularly with finances , it does take a leap of faith . If you have high value accounts that this person will be dealing with you can always get them bonded . Getting an individual with a clean credit history and no criminal background bonded usually costs < $ 600 a year ( depending on $ risk exposure ) . I would start out small with tasks that do not directly put that person in control of your money . In my case I did n't have an official business , I worked a normal 9-5 job , but I owned several rental units , and an interest in a bar . My assistant also had a normal 9-5 job and worked 5-10 hours a week for me on various things . Small stuff at first like managing my calendar , reminding me when bills were due , shipping packages , even calling to set up a hair cut . At some point she moved to contacting tenants , meeting with contractors , showing apartments , etc. . . I paid her a fixed about each week plus expenses . I would pay her extra if I needed her more ( say showing an apartment on a Saturday , or meeting a plumber ) . She would handled all sorts of stuff for me , and I gave her the flexibility when needed to fit things in with her schedule . After about a month I did get her a credit card for expenses . Obviously a virtual assistant would not be able to do some of these things but I think you get the point . Eventually when the trust had been built up I put her on most of my accounts and gave her some fiduciary responsibilities as well . I 'm not sure that this level of trust would be possible to get to with a virtual assistant . However , with a virtual assistant you might be able to avoid one really big danger of hiring an assistant ... You see , several years later when I sold off my apartment buildings I no longer needed an assistant , so I married her . Now one good thing about that is I do n't have to pay her now . ;)
end question
start question
Do Options take Dividend into account ?
No ca n't make quick bucks . It depends very much on what the strike price was . Dividends which are below 10 % of the market value of the underlying stock , would be deemed to be ordinary dividends and no adjustment in the Strike Price would be made for ordinary dividends . For extra-ordinary dividends , above 10 % of the market value of the underlying security , the Strike Price would be adjusted . Refer more at <URL> Edit : The Nifty consists of <URL> . The largest one has weight of around 8 % . So 10 % on this will only translate to .8 % on index .
In India , in the money options get exercised automatically at the end of the day and is settled at T +1 ( Where T is expiry day ) . This means , the clearing house takes the closing price of the underlying security while calculating the amount that needs to be credited/debited to its members . Source : - <URL>
A couple ideas : Use excel - it has an IRR ( internal rate of return ) that can handle a table of inputs as you describe , along with dates deposited to give you a precise number . Go simple - track total deposits over the year , assume half of that was present in January . So , for example , your account started the year with $ 10k , ended with $ 15k , but you deposited $ 4k over the year . It should be clear the return ( gain ) is $ 1k , right ? But it 's not 10 % , as you added during the year . I 'd divide $ 1k / $ 12k for an 8.3 % return . Not knowing how your deposits were structured , the true number lies between the 10 % and 6.7 % as extremes . You 'll find as you get older and have a higher balance , this fast method gaining accuracy , as your deposits are a tinier fraction of your account and likely spread out pretty smoothly over the year anyway .
In the US , the IRS requires employers to withhold taxes on severance pay . This is explained in <URL> : Situation 6 . Severance pay is supplemental wages because it is not a payment for services in the current payroll period but a payment made upon or after termination of employment for an employment relationship that has terminated . Thus , although the payments in this situation are for a fixed determinable amount for 51 weeks , they are not fixed payments for the current payroll period and thus are not regular wages . Because the severance pay is supplemental wages , the usual rules for determining income tax withholding with respect to supplemental wages apply . S can use the aggregate procedure to determine withholding on the payments . Alternatively , if S has withheld income tax on regular wages paid to G in Year 1 , S can use optional flat rate withholding to determine the withholding with respect to the supplemental wage payments in Year 1 and Year 2 . This means the employer may either withhold 25 % flat , or may withhold by the usual method ( similar to your regular withholding ) . As of 2014 , severance pay was ruled to also require <URL> , as your normal wages have withheld from them .
Binary options is a type of option where the payoff is either some fixed amount of some asset or nothing at all . When you trade binary options a trader who thinks that the EUR/USD strike price will close at or below 1.2500 at 3:00 p.m. can buy a put option or sell the contract .
Margin interest is deductible on Sch A . So my first warning is that if you do n't itemize , the deduction is lost . Assuming you already itemize , it adds to your itemized deductions . If your gains are short term , they are taxed at your regular rate , i.e. your marginal rate same as earned income . If your return is higher than the margin rate , you are in the black . If bounced off long term gains , the numbers change slightly , as the gain may be taxed 15 % , but your margin interest is offset 25 % , for example . My comment question was to try to understand the intent . A 10 % margin rate is certainly a deal killer . I have a 2.5 % equity line , and am not considering using it to buy stocks despite the 10 % long term gains in the market . In your case , a 20 % drop would cost you 40 % of your equity . Buying on margin is not recommended for most investors , let alone those just learning .
Take the equation 1 + r _ { annual } = ( 1 + r _ { monthly } ) ^ 12 Notice , the right hand side is just compounding the rate 12 times . We can rearrange the equation to solve for the monthly rate : r _ { monthly } = ( 1 + r _ { annual } ) ^ ( 1/12 ) - 1 Substituting in r _ { annual } = .12 , we have r _ { monthly } = 0.00949 . So , for an annual rate of 12 % , that corresponds to a monthly rate of about 0.949 % .
Not necessarily . The abbreviation " ESOP " is ambiguous . There are at least 8 variations I know of : Employee [ Share / Stock ] [ Owership / Option ] [ Plan / Program ] . You 'll find references on Google to each of those , some more than others . For fun you can even substitute the word " Executive " for " Employee " and I 'm sure you 'll find more . Really . So you may be mistaken about the " O " referring to " options " and thereby implying it must be about options . Or , you may be right . If you participate in such a plan ( or program ) then check the documentation and then you 'll know what it stands for , and how it works . That being said : companies can have either kind of incentive plan : one that issues stock , or one that issues options , with the intent to eventually issue stock in exchange for the option exercise price . When options are issued , they usually do have an expiration date by which you need to exercise if you want to buy the shares . There may be other conditions attached . For instance , whether the plan is about stocks or options , often there is a vesting schedule that determines when you become eligible to buy or exercise . When you buy the shares , they may be registered directly in your name ( you might get a fancy certificate ) , or they may be deposited in an account in your name . If the company is small and private , the former may be the case , and if public , the latter may be the case . Details vary . Check the plan 's documentation and/or with its administrators .
Yes , a contribution to a Traditional IRA is an <URL> assuming you meet the requirements <URL> , so you do n't have to itemize to receive it . You only get a deduction for a Traditional IRA ; Roth IRAs are after-tax .
As an individual freelancer , you would need to maintain a book of accounts . This should show all the income you are getting , and should also list all the payments incurred . This can not only include the payments to other professionals , but also any hardware purchased , phone bills , any travel and entertainment bills directly related to the service you are offering . Once you arrive at a net profit figure , you would need to file this as your income . Consult a tax professional and he can help with how to keep the records of income and expenses . i.e. . You would need to create invoices for payments , use checks or online transfers for most payments , segregate the accounts , one account used for this professional stuff , and another for your personal stuff , etc. . In a normal course the Income Tax Department does not ask for these records , however whenever your tax returns get scrutinized on a random basis , they would ask for all the relevant documentations .
Should I just create a new account code , i.e. Lawyer 's Trust Account ? Yes , you should . I have a generic " escrow " account just for that .
Assuming you have no new cash to add to your account as gyurisc has suggested , I would n't sweat the small amounts -- it does n't hurt to have a little cash sit idle , even if you want to theoretically be fully invested ( the wisdom of doing that , or not , perhaps worthy of another question :-) If you try too hard to invest the small amounts frequently , you 're likely to get killed on fees . My strategy ( if you could call it that ) is to simply let small amounts accumulate until there 's enough to buy more shares without paying too much commission . For instance , I do n't like fees to be more than 1 % of the shares purchased , so with a $ 10 commission per trade , I prefer to make minimum $ 1000 purchases . I used to roll small amounts of cash into a no-load money market fund I could buy without commission , and then purchase shares when I hit the threshold , but even putting the cash in a money market fund is n't worth the hassle today with rates of return from money market funds being close to zero .
Yes , you would . You owe it to the person you borrowed the shares from . ( <URL> )
There are two kinds of dividend-reinvestment plans . The first is offered by the company you 're buying . If you want to be enrolled in this plan , you need to buy stock in the company directly , and maintain multiple accounts ( one for each company 's stock ) . The details will vary from company to company , and can have some major downsides , especially when it comes to figuring out how to do the tax reporting . You 'll need to find the prospectus and figure out whether you 're eligible for the plan by yourself . These plans are probably best for people whose main set of investments are managed by another party ( e.g. a university pension plan ) and who want to supplement this with some investment in just one or two companies that they know very well , because otherwise it 's hard to get good amounts of diversification . The second kind of plan is offered by your broker . Brokerages will charge you some money to trade stocks , but they are great because you can have one account with lots of stocks in one place . But unless your broker has a presence both in the US and the UK , you 'll probably need to transfer your holdings to a new institution sooner or later . This usually involves a fee for the outgoing transfer ( typically on the order of $ 50 - $ 100 ) . Additionally , the brokerage will liquidate any partial shares ( theoretically these shares do n't really exist individually ; whole shares are held by the brokerage , and interest in those shares ' value is assigned to people who hold partial shares ) . If you 're enrolled in a dividend reinvestment plan , chances are you 'll have some of these partial shares , and you wo n't gain or lose much by having it as ' stock ' for a few months instead of ' cash ' . In the short term , I would recommend either storing your money in other instruments , or ( if you think you can get much more than $ 50 + in earnings over the next several months - depends on how much you 've got ) buying individual stocks at a brokerage . When you move to the US and select a brokerage there , you can enroll in a dividend reinvestment plan offered by the broker and combine the cash you 've earned from dividends with future investment cash . There is no tax advantage to using a dividend reinvestment plan ( and indeed , if it is in a taxable account , it may complicate cost-basis reporting in the future if you have to report a large number of small purchases ) . This assumes you 're interested in owning individual stocks . It is also possible to find yourself a stock ETF or mutual fund . Most mutual funds are pretty good about letting you reinvest your dividends . If you 're interested in a diversified instrument where you can buy dividend-bearing US stocks , I 'd recommend that you obtain an account at <URL> ( which is renowned for low expense ratios on its mutual funds ) once you arrive in the US , and put money in a mutual fund such as the Vanguard Dividend Growth Fund or the Vanguard Dividend Appreciation Index Fund . ( Naturally , you may also select other funds or fund providers based on what your research suggests meets your needs . Read the prospectus and understand the risks and potential returns . ) Of course , you should also consider whether a highly diversified investment strategy involving the whole US stock market ( or even the world stock market ) , and not just US dividend-oriented companies , might be more suitable for your needs . Or a blended portfolio involving both stocks and bonds .
The short answer is the annualised volatility over twenty years should be pretty much the same as the annualised volatility over five years . For independent , identically distributed returns the volatility scales proportionally . So for any number of monthly returns , setting the annualization factor annualises the volatility . It should be the same for all time scales . <URL> However , note the discussion here : <URL> Scaling volatility [ like this ] only is mathematically correct when the underlying price model is driven by Geometric Brownian motion which implies that prices are log normally distributed and returns are normally distributed . Particularly the comment : " its a well known fact that volatility is overestimated when scaled over long periods of time without a change of model to estimate such " long-term " volatility . " Now , a demonstration . I have modelled 12,000 monthly returns with mean = 3 % and standard deviation = 2 , so the annualised volatility should be . <URL> <URL> Calculating annualised volatility for return sequences of various lengths ( 3 , 6 , 12 , 60 months etc. ) reveals an inaccuracy for shorter sequences . The five-year sequence average got closest to the theoretically expected figure ( 6.9282 ) , and , as the commenter noted " volatility is [ slightly ] overestimated when scaled over long periods of time " . Annualised volatility for varying return sequence lengths <URL> Edit re . comment Reinvesting returns does not affect the volatility much . For instance , comparing some data I have handy , the Dow Jones Industrial Average Capital Returns ( CR ) versus Net Returns ( NR ) . The return differences are somewhat smoothed , 0.1 % each month , 0.25 % every third month . More erratic dividend reinvestment would increase the volatility . <URL>
Straight from the <URL> ; Applying for a Social Security card and number for your newborn is voluntary . But , your child needs a Social Security number if you plan to -
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
<URL> <URL> , the DIV ( % ) is , as you say , 165 % . However , the dividend yield is 3.73 % at the time of writing . As the Investopedia page referenced above says : The payout ratio is calculated as follows : Annual Dividends per Share / Earnings per Share . which means that the dividends being paid out are more than the earnings of the company : In extreme cases , dividend payout ratios exceed 100 % , meaning more dividends were paid out than there were profits that year . Significantly high ratios are unsustainable . <URL>
No ca n't make quick bucks . It depends very much on what the strike price was . Dividends which are below 10 % of the market value of the underlying stock , would be deemed to be ordinary dividends and no adjustment in the Strike Price would be made for ordinary dividends . For extra-ordinary dividends , above 10 % of the market value of the underlying security , the Strike Price would be adjusted . Refer more at <URL> Edit : The Nifty consists of <URL> . The largest one has weight of around 8 % . So 10 % on this will only translate to .8 % on index .
There are not currently after hours trading for equity options CBOE just in early 2015 approved after hours trading on their SPX and VIX indices ( where the SPX is a derivative of a bundle of equities , and the VIX is a derivative of the SPX 's options spreads ... and VIX options are a derivative of the VIX , we can go deeper ) These are basically 24 hours 5.5 days of the week now with some 30 minute maintainance gaps . Not perfect to solve this glaring market inefficiency , where other markets are much more advanced in this regards , but progress . So nothing for individual equities but you may be able to base a strategy around broad market indices
end question
start question
What does a CFP do ?
A Certified Financial Planner has passed a licensing exam and will advise you and help you reach your financial goals . A good CFP can help you a lot , especially if you are unsure how to set up your insurance , investment , savings , and financial plans on your own . You do not need a CFP to get a life insurance policy . If you do get a CFP , he or she should help you above and beyond life insurance -- i.e. retirement planning , investment advice , education planning , etc. . It 's advantageous to you to pay a fixed price for services instead of a percentage or commission . Negotiate fees up front . For life insurance , in most cases a term policy will fit your needs . Whole life , universal life , etc. , combine investments and life insurance into a single product and are big commission makers for the salesman . They make it sound like the best thing ever , so be aware . One of my rules of thumb is that , generally speaking , the larger the commission is for the salesperson , the worse the product is for the consumer . Welcome to life insurance pitches . <URL> is far less expensive and provides a death benefit and nothing else . If you just had a baby and need to protect your family , for example , term life is often a good solution , easy to buy , and inexpensive . As you stated , any of the major providers will do just fine .
If you 've got shares in a company that 's filed for U.S. Chapter 11 bankruptcy , that sucks , it really does . I 've been there before and you may lose your entire investment . If there 's still a market for your shares and you can sell them , you may want to just accept the loss and get out with what you can . However , shares of bankrupt companies are often delisted once bankrupt , since the company no longer meets minimum exchange listing requirements . If you 're stuck holding shares with no market , you could lose everything -- but that 's not always the case : Chapter 11 is n't total and final bankruptcy where the company ceases to exist after liquidation of its assets to pay off its debts . Rather , Chapter 11 is a section of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that permits a company to attempt to reorganize ( or renegotiate ) its debt obligations . During Chapter 11 reorganization , a company can negotiate with its creditors for a better arrangement . They typically need to demonstrate to creditors that without the burden of the heavy debt , they could achieve profitability . Such reorganization often involves creditors taking complete or majority ownership of the company when it emerges from Chapter 11 through a debt-for-equity swap . That 's why you , as an investor before the bankruptcy , are very likely to get nothing or just pennies on the dollar . Any equity you may be left holding will be considerably diluted in value . It 's rare that shareholders before a Chapter 11 bankruptcy still retain any equity after the company emerges from Chapter 11 , but it is possible . But it varies from bankruptcy to bankruptcy and it can be complex as montyloree pointed out . Investopedia has a great article : <URL> . Here 's an excerpt : If a company you 've got a stake in files for bankruptcy , chances are you 'll get back pennies to the dollar . Different bankruptcy proceedings or filings generally give some idea as to whether the average investor will get back all or a portion of his investment , but even that is determined on a case-by-case basis . There is also a pecking order of creditors and investors of who get paid back first , second and last . In this article , we 'll explain what happens when a public company files for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws and how it affects investors . [ ... ] How It Affects Investors [ ... ] When your company goes bankrupt , there is a very good chance you will not get back the full value of your investment . In fact , there is a chance you wo n't get anything back . [ ... ] Wikipedia has a good article on Chapter 11 bankruptcy at <URL> .
If your returns match the market , that means their rate of return is the same as the market in question . If your returns beat the market , that means their rate of return is higher . There 's no one ' market ' , mind you . I invest in mutual funds that track the <URL> ( which is , very roughly , the U.S. stock market ) , that track the Canadian stock market , that track the international stock market , and which track the Canadian bond market . In general , you should be deeply dubious of any advertised investment option that promises to beat the market . It 's certainly possible to do so . If you buy a single stock , for example , that stock may go up by 40 % over the course of a year while the market may go up by 5 % . However , you are likely taking on substantially more risk . So there 's a very good chance ( likely , a greater chance ) that the investment would go down , losing you money .
If you are on the receiving end , you will not need to provide any information to your bank . Wire transfers are initiated by the sending party . If you are sending a wire transfer , you will need to provide the following information about the recipient : ABA/Routing number of the receiving bank Name/address/phone number of the receiving bank Recipient 's bank account number Recipient 's name ( as listed on the account ) Recipient 's address ( as listed on the account ) If you need to give this information to a company so they can send you a wire , this is the information you should provide for them . Domestic wire transfers do n't require SWIFT/IBAN .
There is n't any place you can put $ 300 and turn it into significant passive income . What you need to do instead is manage the active ( work ) income that you have so that your money goes farther , freeing income up for reducing debt and investing . Investing $ 300 one time wo n't add up to much , but investing $ 100 a month will turn into wealth over time . Making a monthly budget is the key to managing your income . In the process , you 'll find out where your income is going , and you can be intentional about how much you want to spend on different things in your life . You can allocate some of your income to paying down debt and investing , which is what you need to do to get ahead . For some general guidelines on what to do with your money first , read this question : <URL> . For more specifics on creating a budget , eliminating debt , and building wealth , I recommend the book <URL> by Dave Ramsey .
Generally , an activity qualifies as a business if it is carried on with the reasonable expectation of earning a profit . In order to make this determination , taxpayers should consider the following factors : Does the time and effort put into the activity indicate an intention to make a profit ? Does the taxpayer depend on income from the activity ? If there are losses , are they due to circumstances beyond the taxpayer 's control or did they occur in the start-up phase of the business ? Has the taxpayer changed methods of operation to improve profitability ? Does the taxpayer or his/her advisors have the knowledge needed to carry on the activity as a successful business ? Has the taxpayer made a profit in similar activities in the past ? Does the activity make a profit in some years ? Can the taxpayer expect to make a profit in the future from the appreciation of assets used in the activity ? The IRS presumes that an activity is carried on for profit if it makes a profit during at least three of the last five tax years , including the current year -- at least two of the last seven years for activities that consist primarily of breeding , showing , training or racing horses . From the IRS document FS-2007-18 . The entire text can be found here : <URL>
From Wikipedia - To calculate the value of the S&amp;P 500 Index , the sum of the adjusted market capitalization of all 500 stocks is divided by a factor , usually referred to as the Divisor . For example , if the total adjusted market cap of the 500 component stocks is US$ 13 trillion and the Divisor is set at 8.933 billion , then the S&amp;P 500 Index value would be 1,455.28 . From a strictly mathematical perspective , the divisor is not canceling out the units , and the S&amp;P index is dollar denominated even though it 's never quoted that way . A case in point is that the S&amp;P is often said to have a P/E , and especially an E , the earnings attributed to one ' unit ' of S&amp;P . And if you buy a mutual fund sporting a low expense ratio , you can invest exactly that much money ( the current S&amp;P index value ) and see the dividends accrue to your account , less the fee .
I suggest rolling it over to the 401 ( k ) with your new employer . Particularly if they match any percentage of your contribution , it would be in your interest to take as much of that money as possible . When it comes to borrowing money from your 401 ( k ) , it looks like the issues AbraCadaver mentioned only apply if you do n't pay back the money ( <URL> ) . The reasonable argument against taking money out of your 401 ( k ) to buy a home is that it leaves a dent in your retirement nest egg ( and its earning power ) during key earning years . On the plus side for borrowing from your 401 ( k ) , it 's very low interest -- and it 's interest you 're paying back to yourself over a 5-year period . At its current value , the most you could borrow from your 401 ( k ) is $ 35K . If you 're fortunate in where you live , that could be most or all of the downpayment . In my own experience , my wife borrowed against her 401 ( k ) balance for the earnest money when we purchased a new home . Fortunately for us , an investor snapped up my previous home within 4 days of us listing it , so she was able to pay back her loan in full right away .
How do the mint set the value ? Surely it can not be a value plucked from the sky . Actually , that 's exactly how it is set - plucked from the sky . Not by the mint , though , by Congress ( in the case of the US , similarly in other countries ) . The US mint merely executes orders given by the US Congress and signed into law by the US President . For example , the wildly popular <URL> coin is authorized by the <URL> . The act specifies the denomination ( $ 1 in this case ) , the metal composition ( 99.9 % pure silver , in this case ) and the visual appearance . See <URL> . ALL the US coins that are minted - are minted exactly <URL> , and that includes the denomination . Precious metal coins are not intended for circulation , but rather for collectors . Thus , the denomination does n't correspond to the coins ' real ( intrinsic ) value - the actual value of the metal is significantly higher than the denomination of the coin ( with the notable exception of the Canadian <URL> series ) . Furthermore , what does the value imply to the bearer ? Is it redeemable for $ 25 at any time ? Yes , they 're legal tender . Obviously it would be ridiculous to do that since the metal content worth much more than the denominated value . It has also been set as a legal precedent that payment with these coins can not be taken at face value , but rather at their real ( metal content ) value , <URL> .
A mortgage is simply a loan backed by a property ( and , because it 's both very large and very common , covered by some specific laws ) . As such , the bank is n't an " investor " in your house ; it simply is lending you money with the property as collateral . So , it does n't get any share of the profit . As long as you sell the house on your own , for more than you owe , most of the time in the US you will get about 92-94 % of the sale price back , minus whatever you owe on the house . The 6-8 % you do n't get will go to the realtors as commission ( unless you sell by owner and do n't sell to someone with a buyer 's agent ) , and to pay some of the costs of the sale ( how much of those you pay depends on the deal you make with the buyer , but it 's common to pay some of them in some areas ) . You also will owe taxes ( potentially ) . You then pay the bank back from that amount . As such , in your example , let 's say Bob owes $ 50k on his house , and sells it with a realtor for $ 150k . He gets $ 150k-0 .06 * 150k = 141k after commission . He then hands the bank a check for the current payoff of the loan : that amount is usually slightly higher than the remaining principal , because you owe the interest that 's accrued between [ last payment you made ] and [ day of sale ] . Let 's say this is a 6 % loan , which works out to around 0.5 % per month , and it 's been half a month since his last payment , so he owes another 0.25 % , or another $ 125 . Some mortgages also may have prepayment penalties ( check your note ) . In this case there is n't a penalty , so the bank gets $ 50,125 from the sale . Usually , the bank would get that immediately at closing - ie , he does n't get the full $ 141k or $ 150k and then write a check , instead the title/closing company gets that amount , and gives the $ 9k to the realtors , the $ 50,125 to the bank , and the remaining $ 90,875 to him . Do n't forget he may also owe income taxes , and sometimes other local taxes , on the profit on the sale . In this case the IRS would n't get anything ( as it 's under $ 250k ) , assuming it 's a primary residence , but keep that in mind . Also - in the case of a foreclosure , the bank will get some extra money to pay for the costs it incurred in foreclosing on and selling the house .
<URL> also gives it a decent treatment . The term write-off describes a reduction in recognized value . In accounting terminology , it refers to recognition of the reduced or zero value of an asset . In income tax statements , it refers to a reduction of taxable income as recognition of certain expenses required to produce the income . Write-off is also used in vehicle insurance to describe a vehicle which is cheaper to replace than to repair , sometimes colloquially referred to as being " totaled " ( a total loss ) . Write-off is the act of creating Debit payment against the Credit and vice-versa , to nullify the transaction . For income tax purposes it is synonymous with " deduction . " The Wikipedia article provides some examples of a few types of write-offs .
In general , a warrant is a security issued by a company allowing the holder to purchase a certain number of a particular class of shares at a certain price for a particular period of time . They differ from exchange traded options ( i.e. calls and puts ) in that they are issued by the company that issued the underlying shares that they allow you to purchase whereas calls and puts are generally written by other investors . The other big difference between options and warrants is that options are standardized . Any call or put you buy on a particular exchange has basically the same set of rules governing use . By contrast , a warrant may have all kinds of stipulations that must occur before you can execute , such as price events ( e.g. only if the stock hits a certain price ) or business events ( e.g. only if the company elects to defer payment on a bond issued at the same time as the warrant ) . Warrants are generally a bad choice for small and inexperienced investors since each warrant issue is different and you often need a lawyer or other qualified professional to fully understand all to possible outcomes .
He was most likely talking about <URL> ' mutual fund called <URL> . It lists January 1 , 1934 as its inception date , which is just over 78 years ago . As shown at the link above , it lists its cumulative annualized returns as of December 31 , 2011 to be 11.97 % ( not taking any loads into account ) . It does appear to be a relatively popular fund , with over 3.5 million shareholder accounts and over $ 50 billion in net assets . The fund is targeted primarily at American large-cap equities , and is actively managed . Commensurate with that , its expenses are higher than index funds ( the actual expense ratio and/or loads depend upon the share class that you choose ; the above link shows information for class A shares , which carry a somewhat hefty front-end load ) ; it 's up to you to choose between a higher-cost , actively-managed fund ( and hope that the managers are good at picking stocks ) versus a low-cost indexing approach promoted by companies like Vanguard . You 'll find people on both sides of that fence . However , as JoeTaxpayer already pointed out , the average return of the market over the same time period was very similar , or even better ( I 'm not sure exactly how the calculator he referenced arrived at the number ; the S&amp;P 500 did n't exist in its current form until 1957 ) , so it 's not clear that the management of this fund has added value from a total return standpoint . Depending upon your risk appetite , however , it may be worth looking a bit deeper to compare the fund 's volatility with that of the overall market ; a similar return with lower volatility might be desirable .
The " load " is the act of you directly putting money into the account for the card . The " maximum load " is thus the most possible money you can add to the account at one time . What makes this different from a " maximum balance " is that you can add money to your balance separately from a load - specifically , from getting a refund . So technically you could load 15000 onto the account , spend 5000 , load 5000 more , and that would be OK . If you get a refund before you spend more out , however , you would exceed the maximum balance and be in violation of your card agreement - even though you did n't violate the maximum load amount . The load is also mentioned later in that table , in the form of maximum annual load/spend ( which are both unlimited on that card ) , so this helps to clarify that this " maximum load " is actually the maximum amount you can load at any one time . Some cards actually have maximum daily/monthly loads which are different than their maximum balances or spend sums , which makes the difference in the definitiosn of " load " , " spend " , and " balance " to be important distinctions .
No , the deadline is for existing LLC/C-Corp to chose to be taxed as a S-Corp for the tax year 2013 . You have n't form a corporation at all , so its irrelevant for you . Once you do form your corporation ( i.e. : file the relevant documents with your State agency responsible - Secretary of State/Department of Corporations etc ) , you have 75 days to have the election made ( by filing <URL> ) . Consider having a consultation with a CPA/EA and a lawyer ( which I 'm neither of ) about whether you really need it . For most cases LLC will suffice . Some professionals are n't allowed to operate under LLC in some states , though .
A synthetic ETF represents some segment of a market or a market index , but does n't invest in the actual securities . Typically this means they 're using options contracts or similar instruments ( swaps ) . The most obvious of these are leveraged ETFs : they aim to return something like " twice the daily performance of the S&amp;P 500 " . Sometimes these are short ETFs : " twice the inverse of the daily performance " . Because their objective is the daily performance , their returns may diverge significantly over time . They 're pretty much always a good way to lose money in the long term . They 're primarily used for day traders to have an effective way to perform certain day-trade strategies . There may be other kinds of synthetic ETFs out there . I do n't know about the details of them . There are definitely some commodities-futures funds that do n't hold the actual commodities but I do n't know any in the ETF flavor . Commodity-futures funds are subject to what they call contango in certain ( rising ) markets , which may hamper their ability to chase that performance . ( They ca n't take physical delivery . If the price for delivery in 12 months is higher than the price of an option expiring now , then they ca n't actually capture that gain . ) You can tell a regular ETF by the fact that its prospectus and " about this fund " info which says what it invests in . A standard vanilla ETF will say something like " this fund invests all or substantially all of its assets in the common stocks of the companies in the Standard &amp; Poor 500 " ( or whatever the ETF represents ) . These are the kinds of ETFs an individual investor should probably be investing in .
No , the IRR is n't how your funds are performing in the market unless you are putting in the max on Jan. 1 and then not adding or removing anything for the year so that it matches the total return of the fund . It 's a computation of what is your personal rate of return in terms of how much money have you put in , which is beginning balance plus contributions , compared to the ending balance factoring in any withdrawals . Thus it is how much each dollar you invested did over the course of the period that the return is given . Something to point out here is that if you are dollar-cost averaging then the IRR is a better measure of how your performance is as it is n't quite the same as the total return of the fund . Consider the case of a fund that goes up 10 % each month and you invest $ 100/month into the fund for an entire year , just to keep the Math simple here . The fund 's total return is ( 1.1 ) ^ 12 = 3.138428376721 which is 214 % . So , if you invested $ 1200 at the start of the year , you 'd have $ 3766.11 at the end of the year for a gain of $ 2566.11 . However , if we space out the computations , the end total becomes a mere $ 2352.27 , for a gain of $ 1152.27 , as the compounding is reduced . Thus , in this case your IRR is 96 % since you invested $ 1200 and made $ 1152.27 on it . For those wanting the raw figures , here is the $ 100/month returns at the end of each month : 110 231 364 .1 510.51 671.561 848.7171 1043.58881 1257.947691 1493.74246 1753.116706 2038.428377 2352.271214 In contrast , here is how the $ 1200 invested as a lump sum , does : 1320 1452 1597 .2 1756.92 1932.612 2125.8732 2338.46052 2572.306572 2829.537229 3112.490952 3423.740047 3766.114052 As the final totals are rather different , the rate of returns should also be quite different . The total returns are different because in one case , the person spaced out the purchases compared to the other case . These should n't both have the same return unless you 're going to factor in the time value of money somehow to make up the difference .
Can anyone explain what each of them mean and how they 're different from each other ? Buy To Open When you " buy to open " , you are purchasing an option and opening a new position . Sell To Open Covered When you " sell to open " , you are creating a brand new options contract and selling it . " Covered " means that you have assets in your account to satisfy the terms of the options contract . A " covered call " is a call option for which you own shares of the underlying stock that you will sell to the buyer at the option 's strike price if he exercises the option . Buy To Close If you previously made a " sell to open " trade to create a new position , and you want to close the position , you can buy back the option . Sell To Close If you previously made a " buy to open " trade , you can " sell to close " which will sell back your option and close your position . In summary : " open " means you 're creating a new position " close " means you 're closing an existing position " covered " means you have the underlying asset ( cash or stock ) to satisfy the option if it is exercised
Your coworker is mistaken . A higher credit line is fine especially if you have zero balance . If you happen to carry a balance at the time of mortgage application , then a higher credit line will mean you have a lower utilization . A lower utilization will mean that your credit score will be better than if you had a higher utilization . I know someone who just got a mortgage for 3.65 % with a DTI of 41 % , one late payment from two years ago and a short sale on their credit report . With what you are telling us , your mortgage application should not be a problem . Ensure you have adequate reserves ( 3-6 months of income ) either in your bank account or 401k .
As always with investments , it depends on your risk adversity . I do n't want to repeat the content of hundreds of recommendations here , so just the nutshell : ( For qualified investments , ) the more risk you are willing to take , the more returns you 'll get . The upper end is the mutual funds and share market , where you have long-term expectations of 8 - 10 % ( and corresponding risks of maybe + / - 50 % per year ) , the lower end is a CD , where you can expect little to no interest , corresponding to little to no risk . Investing in shares/funds is not ' better ' than investing in CDs , it is different . Not everybody likes financial roller-coasters , and some people mainly consider the high risk , which gives them sleepless nights ; while others just consider the expected high long-term gains as all that counts . Find out what your personal risk adversity is , and then pick accordingly .
end question
start question
Are credit card rewards taxable ?
My understanding is this is considered a " rebate . " I view the cash reward as recovering part of the merchant fee charged for the use of my card . It 's not income because it 's my own money . Now , when I use the card for business items that I 'm reimbursed from my employer 100 % , in theory those rebates should be taxed , in practice , there 's no tracking . Note - I am in the US . My current card gives me 2 % back , up to $ 1500/yr . This goes into a 529 account ( A college savings account ) which as of mid-2015 passed $ 26,000 in value .
I 've been doing this for years , and have n't had a problem ( yet ) . Since I pay of the entire balance every month , this ensures that I never have to pay interest because I forgot to send in a payment . As MoneyCone said , it does require discipline on your part to check your statement each month , prior to the autopay . Remember , that even with autopay , you can override it for particular statements . So if there is a fraudulent charge , you can dispute it with the credit card company , and manually pay the card whatever amount you want . The one thing I do worry about is the credit card making an error and withdrawing more than they should . This is why I have the autopay tied to my local credit union account , which I only keep enough to pay the credit card bills and the occasional paper check , limiting the damage . Most of my money are in an ING account , where I use online billpay to take care of the rest of my expenses .
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
PC MasterCard recently added this as a new feature to their online system . It lets you see " Pending Authorizations " for your card when you log in . Their email said : Along with your purchases , you 'll see a list of every transaction that 's been approved , but not yet applied to your balance . You 'll be able to identify these with the word " Pending " in the date column . Here 's a link with more information : <URL>
Currently the credit history are not International but are local . Many countries do n't have a concept of credit history yet . Having said that , if you are moving to US , depending on your history in your country , you can ask the same bank to provide you with a card and then start building history . For example in India I had a card with Citi Bank and when I moved to US for a short period , I was given a card based on my India Card , with equivalent credit in USD . If you are moving often internationally , it would make sense to Bank with a leading bank that provide services in geographies of your interest [ Citi , HSBC , etc ] and then in a new country approach these institutions to get you some starting credit for you to build a history .
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
Assuming you 're a US citizen/tax resident filing a form 1040 , it is . Unless your country has a tax treaty with the US to say otherwise . Most countries that do have a tax treaty with the US , have a special clause that discusses this type of income , however not every country has a tax treaty with the US ( most do n't , in fact ) , and not every country that does extends this provision on US citizens ( most do ) . Specifically to Israel : Bituah Leumi ( Social Security ) payments are exempt under the Israeli-US tax treaty . You 're receiving it from Israel , and for the purposes of the US tax law - you 're a resident of the US , thus you qualify under article 21 . In fact , the treaty says that neither country will tax that , so you should check with the Bituah Leumi office about this ( maternity payment is otherwise taxable income in Israel ) .
If they told you that the move wo n't affect your credit score , it wo n't . As you noted , neither MasterCard or Visa are the ones that hold your account ; the bank is . They are telling you that it is a new account , but that is just bookkeeping . As far as you are concerned , it is the same account , as all your history is moving from the old account to the new . If the bank is reporting it to the credit agencies in the same way , it wo n't affect your score . The fact that the account number is changing does n't matter ; credit card account numbers change all the time .
In your case , maybe there 's something in the way BofA reports when you 're not the primary account holder ( i.e. , someone adds you as an authorized user ) so that it is n't going to show on your credit report . Sometimes it can take awhile for accounts to appear on your credit report ( up to several months ) , depending on how and how often the creditors report to the bureaus . Not every creditor reports to all of the credit agencies , for varying reasons . It seems odd that BofA would n't be reporting to at least both TransUnion and Equifax , so this is worth a phone call . Sometimes when this happens its because the information the creditor is reporting is incorrect and does n't match up to someone 's credit file , so the bureaus do n't list it . A social security number , date of birth , or name does n't match ( or perhaps some other detail ) , so it gets sidelined and never reported . In any event , this is worth a quick call to BofA customer service to ask , and maybe they can either fix it if there 's a problem or you can simply sign up for your own BofA account and have it reported . I hope this helps . Good luck !
Yes , citibank allows you to create <URL> . I use it a few times a year when buy something from abroad . It 's actually not a one time but rather one number per merchant . Once you use it ( let 's say at amazon ) you can keep using it at amazon until it expires . You set the limit and the expiration months .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
You can have an american credit card with a foreign billing address . I had two credit cards ( USAA and Chase ) with billing addresses in the UK . I already had both cards while living in the US ( not sure about setting up cards with the original address out of the country ) and then just updated my billing information online . If you can , I would also recommend keeping a card with a US billing address , as mentioned previously , since quite a few websites wo n't allow you to enter a non-US address at all . This depends on having somebody ( parents ? friends ? ) with an address in the states . Also , you can use sites like amazon.com instead of amazon.co.uk to get better deals and / or send gifts home without having to do any currency conversion . Check for foreign transaction fees and try to find a card that has no ( or very small ) fees .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
This is just my opinion , but paying an annual fee for a credit card these days is simply not worth it . Also , if you are just going for the airline miles , I 'd suggest a cash back card is a better choice . Cash is much more fungible between airlines , and they ca n't jack with your rewards by limiting the number of award seats or the number of miles/surcharges for using frequent flier miles on tickets .
However , I did this before and it is a city owned unattended machine . Someone could have placed a <URL> on the machine that captures your credit card information . The fact that the machine is unattended makes this a definite possibility . This could have been done since the last time you used it without the city or any users catching on . This could also occur at a gas station , which you mentioned you had visited in the last few weeks . If you used your card online , check the news or the company 's website to make sure the site was n't compromised . Also , talk to your bank about when the charges were made . The theft could have occurred shortly before that . However , it 's also conceivable that your information was stolen a while ago and only recently used . Have you used your credit card online from a public computer/wi-fi network or over an unencrypted connection ? If not , have you logged into other accounts that use the same account information or could possibly expose your credit card details if those accounts were comprised ? Some people store financial information in their email , so this is another avenue for your information to be compromised . If you receive financial statements or documents with other personal information on them in paper form , do you shred them thoroughly or burn them before disposing of them ? Regardless of how " swanky " your community might be , there are people who will look through trash to find such information . Arguably , a more upscale community would be more vulnerable to this because an identity thief knows there is more information available there . Otherwise , it can be very difficult to pinpoint exactly when/where your information was compromised . I know it 's not the answer you want to hear , but unfortunately , finding the exact time/location of the theft may be impossible .
US bank deposits over $ 10K only need to be reported to FinCEN ( Financial Crimes Enforcement Network - a bureau of the US Department of Treasury ) if the deposits are made in cash or other money instruments where the source can not be traced ( money orders , traveler checks , etc ) . Regular checks and wires do n't need to be reported because there is a clear bank trail of where the money came from . If your family member is giving you money personally ( not from a business ) from a bank account which is outside of the US , then you only need to <URL> . Note , you would need to report that regardless of whether the money was deposited into your US bank account , or paid directly to your credit cards on your behalf , and there are stiff penalties if you play games to try to avoid reporting requirements . Neither deposit method would trigger any taxable income for the scenario you described .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
If you are an individual purchasing life insurance , then the proceeds are not taxable when paid to the beneficiaries .
end question
start question
Does longterm investment in index funds still make sense in a reality of massive algotrading ?
What the automation mostly does is make short-term trading that much more difficult . Day trading is a zero-sum game , so if they win more , everyone else wins less . Long term trading ( years to decades ) is a positive-sum game ; the market as a whole tends to move upward for fairly obvious reasons ( at its basis it 's still investing , which in turn is based on lending , and as long as folks make fairly rational decisions about how much return they demand for their investment and the companies are mostly producing profits there will be a share of the profit coming back to the investors as dividends or increased share value or both . Day-to-day churn in individual stocks gets averaged out by diversification and time , and by the assumption that if you 've waited that long you can wait a bit longer if necessary for jitters to settle out . Time periods between those will partake of some mix of the two .
Am I running some risk by restricting myself to ETFs as an investment vehicle ? Yes there are risks here . First , be aware of what strategy are you using with the ETFs as if you invest in 30 or more of them , you may well wind up with a rather confusing combination of funds . Be sure you know what strategy you have for using ETFs with ideas like asset allocation , rebalancing and diversification as some ETFs may not necessarily be that diverse if one gets into the specialized sector ones for example . Is there anything I should pay attention to when selecting ETFs , other than the expense ratio and how the underlying index helps me diversifying ? Be aware of the purpose of the ETF as JoeTaxpayer 's comment on leveraged ETFs is worth noting . How liquid is the ETF , what is the size of the ETF and be aware of various strategies of how indices can be put together as while among US large-cap indices there may not be that many big shifts , in small-caps and a few other areas there may be differences as companies like Russell will re-constitute their indices twice a year while S &amp; P does a bit more management of their indices . The liquidity is how many shares trade each day as if the volume is low then you may run into greater gaps between the share price and the underlying Net Asset Value of the shares as the <URL> is usually done in blocks of 50,000 shares . The size of the ETF is the market capitalization as I could imagine some of the smaller ETFs eventually being shut down . An example here is Merrill Lynch 's HOLDRs product that existed for a while . The index reconstitution is worth noting for a couple of reasons : Purity of style . If a small-cap fund could let its winners run , they would then become mid-caps or large-caps and thus you are n't diversifying in reality . Some people may slice and dice things rather finely and thus one may not be aware of what ETF is covering which market segment . Thus , this is more a about how well does the fund handle style drift . While the same market segment may be covered , there could be different ways to look at this style . For example , there could be ETFs in the small-cap area that deal with the smallest stocks out there compared to others that deal with larger stocks that still make up what could be seen as small-cap stocks by some .
My experience is in the UK , not Canada , but i imagine the situation is similar . It 's true that an index tracker will outperform the average managed fund . But it 's also true that there 's a lot more variation in performance in managed funds than in trackers ( naturally ) . That means that when people look at performance league tables , they see managed funds at the top , and they go for managed funds . That explains why index funds have n't taken over the market - people always think they can do better . The question is , of course , whether they can . Can you reliably pick a managed fund that will be in the top half of that league table five years down the line , rather than one which will have crashed into the below-the-index relegation zone ? You can find any number of pundits who will assure you that you can , and at least as many who will be equally certain that you ca n't . My two cents ( three cents Canadian ) is that you can , as long as you 're sensible and not greedy ; forget about any fund with ' growth ' , ' aggressive ' , or 'em erging markets ' in the title , and look for ones with a consistent track record over five years or more . It 's not a guarantee of future success , but i do think it 's a reasonable indication . I 'd be interested to see statistics about this , though . In particular , look for income funds - that 's where the money is invested in a diverse set of companies that pay good dividends ; the growth rate and volatility may or may not be better than an index tracker , but the dividends mean that the growth in value of the fund is less dependent on capital growth , shielding you from poor performance . For example , a good chunk of my savings are in the <URL> , which has beaten the FTSE all-share index by a modest amount over the last five years , and will probably beat it harder over the next five if they do n't include another crash ( a big if ! ) . On the subject of dividends , i do n't know how things work in Canada , but in the UK , an index tracker does n't pass on any of the dividends paid by the shares it notionally holds ; it just tracks the capital value , with the fund manager pocketing the payouts . I have a vague idea that an ETF does pass the dividends on to you , but i 'm not sure . As for websites , <URL> is good .
One reason a lot of bond ETFs like Financials are because of how financial companies work . They usually have amazing cash flows due to deposits and fees and therefore have little risk associated with paying their debts in the short term . The rest of VCSH contains companies with low default risk and good cash flow generation as well : GE Verizon Apple Abbive This is of course the objective of VCSH : Seeks to provide current income with modest price fluctuation . Invests primarily in high-quality ( investment-grade ) corporate bonds . Maintains a dollar-weighted average maturity of 1 to 3 years Banks themselves issue a lot of bonds to raise cash to lend for other purposes . Banks are intermediary and help make funds liquid for investors and spenders . Hope that helped answer your question . If not comment below and I 'll try to adjust the answer to be more complete .
It can be done , but it takes a very special set of circumstances : You must be willing to buy only items that you can get for free or nearly free . You must be willing to buy as many items as the store will allow you to in a single visit The store must offer programs like double or triple manufacturers coupons . You must be willing to do everything you can to get as many coupons as you can . You must take advantage of the store loyalty programs . You must have many hours free to plan these types of events , and to gather all the required coupons . Plus the time to get that many items off the shelves and into the carts . And the most important item - There must be some extraordinary deal at that store that day or that week that allows them to essentially give you free money . If you want to buy only the products you like , in quantities that you need , at the closest store to your house you ca n't reach those levels . When you read about these types of shoppers keep in mind they are not going to this extreme to do their regular grocery shopping .
An extension is an extension to file , not to pay . If you expect to pay , you 'll owe penalties/interest for paying late . However , an extension of time to file is not an extension of time to pay . That means , if you owe , you should pay the IRS by the April 18th deadline to avoid penalties and interest . <URL> FYI you have until April 18th in 2011 because April 15th is a holiday which gives you an extra weekend to work on tax investigation .
Summary When you invest in an S&amp;P 500 index fund that is priced in USD , the only major risk you bear is the risk associated with the equity that comprises the index , since both the equities and the index fund are priced in USD . The fund in your question , however , is priced in EUR . For a fund like this to match the performance of the S&amp;P 500 , which is priced in USD , as closely as possible , it needs to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . If the fund simply converted EUR to USD then invested in an S&amp;P 500 index fund priced in USD , the EUR-priced fund may fail to match the USD-priced fund because of exchange rate fluctuations . Why hedging is important Here is a simple example demonstrating why hedging is necessary . I assumed the current value of the USD-priced S&amp;P 500 index fund is 1,600 USD/share . The exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR . If you purchase one share of this index using EUR , you would pay 1230.77 EUR/share : If the S&amp;P 500 increases 10 % to 1760 USD/share and the exchange rate remains unchanged , the value of the your investment in the EUR fund also increases by 10 % ( both sides of the equation are multiplied by 1.1 ) : However , the currency risk comes into play when the EUR/USD exchange rate changes . Take the 10 % increase in the price of the USD index occurring in tandem with an appreciation of the EUR to 1.4 USD/EUR : Although the USD-priced index gained 10 % , the appreciation of the EUR means that the EUR value of your investment is almost unchanged from the first equation . For investments priced in EUR that invest in securities priced in USD , the presence of this additional currency risk mandates the use of a hedge if the indexes are going to track . The fund you linked to uses <URL> , which I discuss in detail below , to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . Since these derivatives are n't free , the cost of the hedge is included in the expenses of the fund and may result in differences between the S&amp;P 500 Index and the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index . Also , it 's important to realize that any time you invest in securities that are priced in a different currency than your own , you take on currency risk whether or not the investments aim to track indexes . This holds true even for securities that trade on an exchange in your local currency , like ADR 's or GDR 's . I wrote an <URL> that goes through a simple example in a similar fashion to the one above in that context , so you can read that for more information on currency risk in that context . Process of hedging There are several ways to investors , be they institutional or individual , can hedge against currency risk . <URL> offers an ETF that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index and uses a over-the-counter currency swap contract called a <URL> to hedge against the associated currency risk . In these contracts , two parties agree to swap some amount of one currency for another amount of another currency , at some time in the future . This allows both parties to effectively lock in an exchange rate for a given time period ( a month in the case of the iShares ETF ) and therefore protect themselves against exchange rate fluctuations in that period . There are other forms of <URL> , <URL> , etc. that could be used to hedge against currency risk . In general , two parties agree to swap one quantity , like a EUR cash flow , payments of a fixed interest rate , etc. for another quantity , like a USD cash flow , payments based on a floating interest rate , etc. . In many cases these are over-the-counter transactions , there is n't necessarily a standardized definition . For example , if the European manager of a fund that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index is holding euros and wants to lock in an effective exchange rate of 1.4 USD/EUR ( above the current exchange rate ) , he may find another party that is holding USD and wants to lock in the respective exchange rate of 0.71 EUR/USD . The other party could be an American fund manager that manages a USD-price fund that tracks the FTSE . By swapping USD and EUR , both parties can , at a price , lock in their desired exchange rates . Final note I want to clear up something else in your question too . It 's not correct that the " S&amp;P 500 is completely unrelated to the Euro . " Far from it . There are many cases in which the EUR/USD exchange rate and the level of the S&amp;P 500 index could be related . For example : Troublesome economic news in Europe could cause the euro to depreciate against the dollar as European investors flee to safety , e.g. invest in Treasury bills . However , this economic news could also cause US investors to feel that the global economy wo n't recover as soon as hoped , which could affect the S&amp;P 500 . If the euro appreciated against the dollar , for whatever reason , this could increase profits for US businesses that earn part of their profits in Europe . If a US company earns 1 million EUR and the exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR , the company earns 1.3 million
Depending on the student loan , this may be improper usage of the funds . I know the federal loans I received years ago were to be used for education related expenses only . I would imagine most , if not all , student loans would have the same restrictions . Bonus Answer : You must have earned income to contribute to an IRA ( e.g. money received from working ( see <URL> for details ) ) . So , if your earmarked money is coming from savings only , then you would not be eligible to contribute . As far as whether you can designate student loans for the educational expenses and then used earned income for an IRA I would imagine that is fine . However , I have not found any documentation to support my assumption .
In practice , there are two main reasons to stick with the exchange : for many people it is cheaper ( because of subsidies ) , and for most people it is simpler ( because you can see many plans in one place in a standardized way instead of having to visit many different insurer websites ) . For most people , the biggest advantage of buying plans from the exchange is the potential for the premium subsidies . You ca n't receive subsidies if you buy a plan off the exchange ; you have to pay the entire cost yourself . If your income is too high to qualify for subsidies , that advantage is moot for you . The exchange does offer some other advantages , such as the ability to directly compare plans from different insurance companies in a standardized way . If you shop among insurance companies " manually " you will have to do this comparison yourself . In theory , the idea is that the exchanges will be able to negotiate better rates by offering insurers the opportunity to easily reach a large pool of customers and federal money ( the subsidies ) . It is still too early in the adoption to know for sure whether this will be the case in the long run , but I found at least <URL> according to which the cheapest on-exchange plans are usually cheaper than the cheapest off-exchange plans . As for why companies might choose to offer plans off the exchange , as I understand it the main reason is simplicity . Although the plans themselves must still meet the legal minimum coverage requirements , the process of joining an exchange involves a series of negotiations between the insurance company and the exchange . These negotiations may deal with not only the level of coverage but also the cost ( as divided among the " metal tiers " ) and the doctor network . If insurers do n't join the exchange , they do n't have to engage in this process , and can essentially set their plan up any way they like , as long as it meets the legal minimums . If you google around for " off-exchange plans " you can find various articles discussing reasons for looking off-exchange . I found some such articles , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . ( As with most writing about Obamacare , it is wise to read such material critically and with an eye to the source . )
If you are going to make those purchases any way , and there is zero cost to you , and you make all the payments on time then you can use this to do several things : Cash management : You only make one or two payments a month . Maximize rewards : you move additional items onto the cards to increase your cash back . Credit Usage : in the short term you will be utilizing more of your credit , which can hurt your score . But a sustained period of paying it off each month should mean the credit card company will increase your credit limit .
The Fidelity funds have an expense ratio , and while some funds may have little to no profit , having you as a customer lets them try to sell you on their managed account/portfolio and other services . It 's possible they do n't make much or any money from you at all , but with so many accounts it 's fine as long as it averages out . Similar to having a credit card and never paying interest on it , but reaping the rewards anyway . Averaged out , they make plenty of money across all accounts . An <URL> is usually given as a percentage , and it 's the amount you pay for the fund per year . If it has a 1 % ER , and you have $ 1,000 invested in it , then it costs you $ 10 for the year ( a very simplified example ) . You wo n't notice this as a direct transaction since it gets taken from the funds assets directly , but this is lowering the return ( or worsening the loss ) on the fund . You can find the ER in your Fidelity account for any funds that are available to you . Something else I thought of is that you add liquidity to their funds , and your assets increase the amount " under management " which may be a selling point , may lower overall costs , etc. .
First of all , congratulations on saving some money . So many people these days do not even get that far . As far as investments , what is best for you depends heavily on your : Risk Tolerance ( how much risk you are willing to accept , which you mentioned was Low in your question Time Horizon ( how long you 're willing to tie up your money in the investment ) , and Liquidity needs ( whether you can access your money quickly if you need to ) Here is a quick summary of types of assets that are likely available to you , and my thoughts on why they may or may not be a good fit for your situation . Cash Equivalents Cash Equivalents are highly liquid , meaning you can get cash for them on fairly short notice . In particular , Money Markets and Certificates of Deposit ( CDs ) are also considered very safe when issued by a bank , as they are often insured against loss by the government up to a certain amount ( this varies quite a lot by country within Europe , see the Wikipedia article <URL> for additional detail . Please note that in the case of a CD , you are usually unable to get access to your money for the length of the investment period , which is usually a short period of time such as 3 months , 6 months , or 1 year . This is a good choice if you may need your money back on short notice , and your main goal is to preserve your principal . However , the returns tend to be very low and often do not keep pace with inflation , meaning that over several years , you may lose " real " purchasing power , even if you do n't lose nominal value in your account . Special Note on Cash Equivalents If the money you want to invest is also your Emergency Fund , or you do not have an Emergency Fund , I would highly recommend Cash Equivalents . They will provide the highest level of Liquidity along with a short Time Horizon so that you can get your money as needed in the case of unforeseen expenses such as if your car breaks down . Debt Debt investments include government and corporate bonds . They are still considered relatively safe , as the issuer would need to default ( usually this means they are in bankruptcy ) in order for you not to be paid back . For example , German bonds have been considered safer than Greek bonds recently based on the underlying strength of the government . Unlike Cash Equivalents , these are not guaranteed against loss , which means that if the issuer defaults , you could lose up to 100 % of your investment . Bonds have several new features you will need to consider . One is interest rate risk . One reason bonds perform better than cash equivalents is that you are taking on the risk that if interest rates rise , the fixed payments the bond promises will be worth less , and the face value of your bond will fall . While most bonds are still very Liquid , this means that if you need to sell the bond before it matures , you could lose money . As mentioned earlier , some bonds are riskier than others . Given that you are looking for a low-risk investment , you would want to select a bond that is considered " invesment grade " rather than a riskier " junk " bond . Debt investments are a good choice if you can afford to do without this money for a few years , and you want to balance safety with somewhat better returns than Cash Equivalents . Again though , I would not recommend investing in Debt until you have also built up a separate Emergency Fund . If you do choose to invest in bonds , I recommend that you diversify your risks by investing in a bond fund , rather than in just one company 's or government 's debt . This will reduce the likelihood that you will experience a catastrophic loss . Ownership Ownership assets includes stocks and other assets such as real estate and precious metals such as gold . While these investments can have high returns , in your situation I would strongly recommend that you not invest in these types of investments , for the following reasons : Ownership assets are risky . In addition to default risk and interest rate risk , you are now also being rewarded for taking on Market Risk . This means that your investment is worth whatever someone else thinks it is worth . If today people think Facebook is going to take over the world , and tomorrow they change their minds , guess what happens to the price of Facebook stock ? Owners get paid last . If the company fails , they will pay their expenses and debt first . If there is nothing left over for the owners , too bad ! This also means that the company 's equity shareholders are more vulnerable to events beyond the company 's control that reduce the value of the company , such as if there is a global recession . Ownership investments are more volatile than other investments . That is , their value changes often and can potentially change by a large amount in a short period of time . For these reasons , debt is considered a safer investment than equity for any particular company , government , or the market as a whole . Ownership assets are a good choice for people who have a high Risk Tolerance , long Time Horizo
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
The Roth IRA is worth it . My initial reaction - there are no " fees and stuff " and your colleagues do n't know what they are talking about . That said it depends on your IRA provider . You will setup the Roth IRA with a bank , credit union or brokerage . If they charge something , go elsewhere - another bank , Vanguard , etc. . Remember an IRA is different from a 401k . An IRA is also just a label , not an account . The vehicle/account/place you put your money can be a CD , money market account or mutual fund . You could put $ 1000 into an IRA CD and $ 1000 into an IRA mutual fund . Next year you can do something different with a different bank . You could hold those two accounts with two different banks even . There is a lot of flexibility and it 's all your own choice . The amount you are legally <URL> to put into an IRA ( Traditional and/or Roth ) is capped each year by whichever is lower : $ 5000 ( though the amount may increase in future years ) Amount you earn ( taxable income ) So if you only earn $ 4000 after taxes in a year , then you can only put $ 4000 max into a Roth IRA . I 've mentioned two different types of IRA ; if that is confusing and you do n't feel like researching/reading further then just choose a Roth IRA . Congrats on saving early !
First : what 's your risk tolerance ? How long is your investment going to last ? If it 's a short-term investment ( a few years ) and you expect to break even ( or better ) then your risk tolerance is low . You should not invest much money in stocks , even index funds and " defensive " stocks . If , however , you 're looking for a long-term investment which you will put money into continually over the next 30 years , the amount of stock you purchase at any given time is pretty small , so the money you might lose by timing the market wrong will also be rather small . Also , you probably do a remarkably poor job of knowing when to buy stocks . If you actually knew how to time the market to materially improve your risk-adjusted returns , you 've missed your calling ; you should be making six figures or more on Wall Street . :)
Yes , you still need to pay income tax on your capital gain regardless of whether you converted your USD proceeds back into CAD . When you calculate your gains for tax purposes , you 'll need to convert all of your gains to Canadian dollars . Generally speaking , CRA will expect you to use a <URL> . At that page , notice the remark at right : Are the Exchange Rates Shown Here Accepted by Canada Revenue Agency ? Yes . The Agency accepts Bank of Canada exchange rates as the basis for calculations involving income and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies .
Do I have to pay the stock investment income tax if I bought some stocks in 2016 , it made some profits but I did n't sell them at the end of 2016 ? You pay capital gains taxes only when you sell the stocks . When you sell the stock within a year you will pay the short term capital gains rate which is the same rate as your ordinary income . If the stock pays dividends , however , you will have to pay taxes in the year that the dividend was paid out to you . I bought some stocks in 2011 , sold them in 2012 and made some gains . Which year of do I pay the tax for the gains I made ? You would pay in 2012 , likely at the short term gain rate . I bought some stocks , sold them and made some gains , then use the money plus the gains to buy some other stocks before the end of the same year . Do I have to pay the tax for the gains I made in that year ? Yes . There is a specific exception called the " Wash Sale Rule " , but that would only apply if you lost money on the original sale and bought a substantially similar or same stock within 30 days . Do I get taxed more for the money I made from buying and selling stocks , even if the gains is only in hundreds ? More than what ? You pay taxes based on the profit you make from the investment . If you held it less than a year it is the same tax rate as your regular income . If you held it longer you pay a lower tax rate which is usually lower than your regular tax rate .
You can employ a hedging strategy using short selling , put options , or other methods that will partially neutralize your exposure to the overall market . e.g. . You could short sell a market-wide index such as the S&amp;P 500 , while going long ( buying ) the company you are interested in . Investopedia has a nice primer on this : <URL> Also , see this related question here : <URL>
Check use is declining here too , but it still has some practical advantages over electronic means : It does not require the receiving party to provide any account number to the paying party ( directly or indirectly ) . The receiving party does not even have to have a bank account at all , since a check can be cashed at the bank on which its drawn . The receiving party can frequently deposit a check with no fees . For the most part businesses taking payments electronically pay for the service . Many small " mom &amp; pop " businesses do n't want to pay or can not afford to pay those fees . It works ( as in the example you gave in the question ) when electronic transactions fail , precisely because it is low-tech . Even online transactions sometimes get converted to check in the end . I can use " online bill pay " for almost any transaction ( including to pay back a friend where no real " bill " exists ) , but the bank sends a physical check to many such parties ( especially if it goes to a friend who is n't going to be registered in the bank 's system ) . It 's a matter of opinion whether the electronic transactions are " better . " I certainly find them to be more convenient in many cases , but people used to the old system still like it , and it generally works , so there 's no specific reason to kill it . For some specific purpose like paying taxes , you get slightly better treatment paying by check because most transactions are credited based on the postmark on the physical mail but get debited from your account based on when the check clears the banking system . That only buys you about a week , but for some people that week might be worth the " hassle " of writing a physical check . Relative to cash , the check is safer and creates a self-documenting transaction because the cleared check is a legal record of the transaction . ( Obviously electronic transactions also share these features . )
There still is some buying and selling to do in a passively-managed fund . The stocks might pay dividends . If the fund manager did n't reinvest these dividends , the fund would begin to accumulate a cash position , which would cause it to stray from being an index fund . Stocks come and go from an index as well ; if the fund is to maintain a composition that matches a particular index , this must be taken into account as well . The role of the manager is to ensure that the fund maintains the composition that it was intended to replicate . It does n't involve as much " stock picking " that active managers do . The manager has less leeway as to what s/he buys and sells , but there still is work involved .
end question
start question
How does the envelope budgeting system work ?
Basically the idea is you put the exact amount of cash into each envelope and set those aside for a specific purpose . Then when you go to accomplish that specific purpose such as grocery shopping or whatever , you take the corresponding envelope and use only the money that is inside . It is sort of a way to train yourself to follow budgets very strictly . Many people stand by this method and it really is as simple as the website you linked to . As far as tracking , this method really does n't track anything aside from what you note down about where the money is going . Others have moved on to using ING sub accounts to do the same thing but in a digital form .
There is a large market where notes/bills/bonds are traded , so yes you can sell them later . However , if interest rates go up , the value of any bond that you want to sell goes down , because you now have to compete with what someone can get on a new issue , so you need to ' discount ' the principal value of your bond in order for someone to want to buy it instead of a new bond that has a higher interest rate . The reverse applies if interest rates fall ( although it 's hard to get much lower than they are now ) . So someone wanting to make money in bonds due to interest rate changes , generally wants to buy at higher interest rates , and then sell their bonds after rates have gone down . See my answer in this question for more detail <URL> To answer ' is that good ' the answer depends on perspective : For someone wanting to buy a bond and get a return on their investment beyond the security that comes with T-notes/bills/bonds , it 's not good at all . It means very low returns right now for risk adverse investors , in some cases not even keeping pace with inflation . For the Government , and taxpayers , it 's good because the government can finance the national debt ( either items coming due , or new debt ) for almost free , and that means we are not taking an even larger hit out of the budget for finance charges on the debt . So for taxpayers and the Government that 's been on a spending spree ( with the brief exception of a few years during the clinton era ) since Reagan was elected , the low rates are a good thing . If we step beyond Treasury issues , it 's also good for Business that wants to finance new projects , capital improvements , etc , since it also means they can get money fairly cheaply via the corporate bond market .
What is Amortization ? An amortization schedule is often used to produce identical payments for the term ( repayment period ) of a loan , resulting in the principal being paid off and the debt retired at the end of the loan . This is in contrast to an interest only , or balloon loan . These loans require little or no payment against the balance of the loan , requiring the loan to be paid indefinitely if there is no term , or requiring the loan to be entirely paid off from cash or a new loan at the end of the term . A basic amortization formula can be derived from the compound interest formula : <URL> . The basics of the formula are the periodic payment amount , A ( your monthly payment ) , can be determined by the principal loan , P , the rate , r , and the number of payments , n. Why Amortize ? Lenders lend money to make a profit on the interest . They 'd like to get back all the money they lent out . Amortization schedules are popular because the fixed low payments make it easier for borrowers to pay the loan off eventually . They also tend to be very profitable for lenders , especially at the start of the term , because they make a lot of profit on interest , just like the start of your mortgage . The principal of a mortgage has more meaning than the principal of a revolving debt credit card . The mortgage principal is fixed at the start , and represents the value of the collateral property that is your home . You could consider the amount of principal paid to be the percentage of your home that you actually own ( as part of your net worth calculation ) . Credit Card Amortization A credit card has a new balance each month depending on how much you charge and how much you pay off . Principal has less meaning in this case , because there is no collateral to compare against , and the balance will change monthly . In this case , the meaning of the amortization schedule on your credit card is how long it will take you to pay off the balance if you stop charging and pay at the proscribed payment level over the term described . Given the high interest rate on credit cards , you may end up paying twice as much for goods in the long run if you follow your lenders schedule . Who Amortizes ? Amortizing loans are common for consumer loans , unless a borrower is seeking out the lowest possible monthly payment . Lenders recognize that people will eventually die , and want to be paid off before that happens . Balloon and interest only bonds and loans are more commonly issued by businesses and governments who are ( hopefully ) investing in capital improvements that will pay off in the long run . Thousands of people and businesses have gone bankrupt in this financial crisis because their interest only loans reached term , and no one was willing to lend them money anymore to replace their existing loan .
It 's a form . I have a retired woman ( my mother in law in the interest of disclosure ) who would otherwise be in the 15 % bracket . In November , I filled out , and she signed the form to move from IRA acct to Roth Acct $ 10,000 . Done . In March , I 'll look at TurboTax and see the line " taxable income " which will tell me how much we went into the 25 % bracket . We will recharacterize that exact amount . In 2011 , <URL> that will be the exact amount of her taxable income when I am done with her return . Her RMDs are increasing in percent each year , but we shift to Roth and are staying ahead of the curve so she never pays 25 % . Minor note - the RMD numbers are produced as of Dec 31 . So the money we recharacterize has to be added back in . The broker may not do this automatically , you should double check . No fees . We use Schwab .
Through your question and then clarification through the comments , it looks like you have a U.S. LLC with at least two members . If you did not elect some other tax treatment , your LLC will be treated as a partnership by the IRS . The partnership should file a tax return on Form 1065 . Then each partner will get a Schedule K-1 from the partnership , which the partner should use to include their respective shares of the partnership income and expenses on their personal Forms 1040 . You can also elect to be taxed as an S-Corp or a C-Corp instead of a partnership , but that requires you to file a form explicitly making such election . If you go S-Corp , then you will file a different form for the company , but the procedure is roughly the same - Income gets passed through to the owners via a Schedule K-1 . If you go C-Corp , then the owners will pay no tax on their own Form 1040 , but the C-Corp itself will pay income tax . As far as whether you should try to spend the money as business expense to avoid paying extra tax - That 's highly dependent on your specific situation . I 'd think you 'd want to get tailored advice for that .
Donations , particularly those in the context of you providing a free service ( software , libraries , etc. ) are a notable grey area in tax code . Simply naming a button " Donate " does n't necessarily classify the money transfer as a " gift " . The IRS can decide that it 's money you 're being paid to continue your excellent work/service , making it taxable income ( unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . In the instance of Patreon , and many other crowd-funding services , you 're providing a certain level of " service " for each tier of donations ( such as early access or something , I 'm not sure what you 're offering ) , which means they 're receiving consideration for their donations , which most likely makes it fall into taxable income ( again , unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . State tax law is even more convoluted , and you should consult your tax professional for clarification on your specific situation .
During after hours , there is less liquidity , defined as the quantity of the asset on the limit book and the spread between the best orders . Actually , for the most liquid securities in the US , trading has actually been extended by fifteen minutes . The liquidity there seems to be rising up to normal levels . If trading on those securities matches normal hours then it would n't be unreasonable to assume another fifteen minutes will be added and so on . The primary exchanges close trading mostly at 4:00 PM with the above noted exceptions . The secondary exchanges trade almost non-stop . They use their internal inventory to do so or communicate directly with the registering agent . This has little to do with floor traders but more with tradition since the NASDAQ also closes at 4:00 PM . If more demand it , the exchanges should be expected to extend trading hours , regulation permitting . I ca n't speak to Canada 's regulation , but in the US , trading hours are traditional not regulatory .
That means if you contribute $ 1000 , and that is equal to 5 % of your salary ( salary of $ 20k ) : It 's basically the same as taxes ; you can think of it as the marginal rate . So , for the " 40 % on the next 2 % " , that means that " first take the amount equal to 2 % of your salary , and match that 100 % . Then take the amount left and match at 40 % , up to the amount which is another 2 % of your ( original ) salary . " Whichever contribution bracket you 're in , the next dollar you contribute is at that matching percentage , and when you ' finish ' a bracket you are at a known total match amount - ie , you can pre-calculate all of those levels , just like the IRS does . So , you could reword this way : These are calculated by taking the ' cap ' of each range , and then adding that to the portion of the marginal range . You can think of it as buckets : while you 're filling one bucket , you get that bucket 's match . When that bucket 's full , the portion of match you got for that bucket is fixed at that amount , and you move to the next bucket and start matching at that rate for the money that 's going into that bucket . If it helps , here is a chart of your contribution versus match . The colors denote the buckets and thus the marginal rates , but are not otherwise meaningful . At any point in the line you can see your contribution ( on the bottom , x-axis ) and the corresponding company match ( on the left , y-axis ) . You can see in the red section , for example , that the slope changes - after 2 % your company matches only 0.4 times the value of your contribution from 2.01 % to 4 % of your original salary . If you 're contributing in a green section , then your company match is 100 % of what you contribute . If you 're in the red section , then your company match is 2 % of your salary , plus 40 % of your contribution over 2 % of your salary ; so your marginal rate is 40 % . This means that the next dollar you contribute will earn $ 0.40 from your company match . In the blue section , you earn 0.25 for every dollar you contribute , above and beyond 2.8 % of your salary .
A tax like this means that you pay 75 % on the amount of your income over 1 million Euros . <URL> gives the current rates . So : Income Share Tax Rate Up to $ 6,011 0 % Between $ 6,012 - $ 11,991 5.5 % Between $ 11,992 - $ 26,631 14 % Between $ 26,632 - $ 71,397 30 % Between $ 71,398 - $ 151,200 41 % Above $ 151,200 45 % So if you are earning $ 1000001 , you would pay the same tax as someone earning $ 1000000 , plus an extra 75c . All income taxes work this way .
They have a relationship with Transunion . Soft . No record of the credit pull on your report . No It 's supplied by one of the three large scoring agencies . There is no one FICO score , each of the big three will differ a bit .
Technical Analysis in general is something to be cognizant of , I do n't use a majority of studies and consider them a waste of time . I also use quantitative analysis more so than technical analysis , and prefer the insight it gives into the market . The markets are more about predicting other people 's behavior , psychology . So if you are trading an equity that you know retail traders love , retail traders use technical analysis and you can use their fabled channel reversals and support levels against them , as examples . Technical analysis is an extremely broad subject . So I suggest getting familiar , but if your historical pricing charts are covered in various studies , I would say you are doing it wrong . A more objective criticism of technical analysis is that many of the studies were created in the 1980s or earlier . Edges in the market do not typically last more than a few weeks . On the other side of that realization , some technical analysis works if everyone also thinks it will work , if everyone 's charts say buy when the stock reaches the $ 90 price level and everyone does , the then stock will go higher . But the market makers and the actions of the futures markets and the actions of options traders , can undermine the collective decisions of retail traders using technical analysis .
Do you simply get call options you can sell on an options exchange ? No , you do n't get call options that you can sell on an options exchange . Rather , you get rights that you can ( generally ) sell on the stock exchange . The right issue is in essence a call option -- in that it behaves like one , but it is not considered a standardized option contract . is there a special exchange where such rights issues are traded ? No . It will normally be done on the stock exchange .
Credit cards come with an interest-free grace period of ~ 25 days as long as you pay your balance in full every month . In other words , charges made in January will appear on a bill cut on Jan 31 , and due around the 25th of February . If paid in full by 2/25 , there 's no interest . It is a very good idea to get in the habit of paying off your entire balance every month for this very reason . Do n't buy anything you ca n't afford to pay for at the end of the month when the credit card bill is due . You 'll avoid interest charges , build good habits , and improve your credit score . By just paying the minimum amount due , you 'll be charged interest from the moment of purchase , and the grace period on new purchases goes away . Credit card companies make the minimum amount due relatively low as a way to encourage you to pay more and more in interest every month . Do n't fall for it ! Look for a credit card with zero annual fee . Sure , rewards are nice , but it 's more important to avoid fees , keep the interest rate low , and get in the habit of paying in full every month , in which case the interest rate wo n't matter . Your bank or credit union is a good place to start looking .
Robinhood seems interesting . Some say it 's a gimmicky site with a nice UI not an investing or trading platform . From <URL> : 1 . For now , the app stays afloat for mainly two reasons . First , the business itself is extremely lean : no physical locations , a small staff , no massive public relations campaigns and only one operating system platform to maintain . Robinhood also generates interest off of unused cash deposits from user accounts according to the Federal Funds rate . 2 . Second , venture capitalists such as Index Ventures , Ribbit Capital , Google Ventures , Andreessen Horowitz , Social Leverage , and " many others " have invested more than $ 16 million in the app . 3 . According to Barron 's , Robinhood plans to implement margin trading in 2015 , eventually charging 3.5 % interest for the service . E * Trade charges 8.44 % for accounts under $ 25,000 . Phone assisted trading will also be available at $ 10 per trade in the future . 4 . Originally , Robinhood planned to make money off of order flows -- a common tactic used by discount brokerages in the 199 0s to generate revenue . According to the company 's FAQ , Robinhood backpedaled on the idea because it executes orders through a clearing partner and , as a result , receives little to no payment for order flow . The company is willing to return to its original plan in the future if it receives order flows directly or begins to generate a lot of revenue from them .
I think it is possible that you are misunderstanding this section of the instructions . On page 48 of the <URL> , under Assembling Your Return , it says : Use the return envelope to mail Form NJ‑1040NR with related enclosures , payment voucher , and check or money order . Send only one return per envelope . What they mean is that if you received an envelope with your form that New Jersey sent you , use that envelope to mail back your form along with everything that goes with it . You do not need to send in an empty envelope . When the tax agencies mail out checks , they have their own mailing system ; they will not use an envelope that you send in .
Here 's my attempt at " Options for Kids " " Hey kid ... So you have this video game that you paid $ 50 for that you want to sell two months from now " " Yes , Mr. Video Game Broker , but I want to lock in a price so I know how much to save for a new Tickle Me Elmo for my baby sister . " " Ok , for $ 3 , I 'll sell you a ' Put ' option so you can sell the game for $ 40 in two months . " ... One month later ... " Hey , Mr. Video Game Broker , I ca n't wait to get this new Tickle Me Elmo for my little sister for Christmas , but its hard to get and I 'm afraid prices will go up . I can only spend $ 100 ! " " Ok kid , for $ 4 I 'll sell you a ' Call ' option to buy a Tickle me Elmo on December 21st for $ 95 . If you can find it cheaper , the option can expire , otherwise $ 95 is the most you will pay ! "
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
No , the expense ratio would be something you would n't be charged . If you bought shares of the ETF long , then the dividends are usually reduced by the expense ratio if you wanted to know where to find that charge in general . You would have to make up for any dividends the underlying stocks as part of general shorting since the idea is that once you buy to put back the shares , it has to appear as if they were n't missing in the first place . No , the authorized participant would handle changes to the underlying structure if needed .
Mentor Millonario say 's : The banking system if not that different from the one in the U.S. . What is different is the tax rules established for Puerto Rico by the U.S. For IRA purposes its like living abroad . From IRS code : Credits and deductions . If you claim the exclusion , you can not claim any credits or deductions that are related to the excluded income . Thus , you can not claim a foreign tax credit or deduction for any foreign income tax paid on the excluded income . Nor can you claim the earned income credit if you claim the exclusion . Also , for IRA purposes , the excluded income is not considered compensation and , for figuring deductible contributions when you are covered by an employer retirement plan , the excluded income is included in your modified adjusted gross income .
Many brokers administer their own dividend reinvestment plans . In this case , on dividend payment date , they automatically buy from the market on behalf of their reinvestment customers , and they administer all fractional shares across all customers . All of your shares are in the broker 's street name anyway , the fractional share is simply in their account system . The process is well documented for several common online brokers ; so any specific questions you may have about differences in policies or implementation should be directed to your broker : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What 's the difference between buying bonds and buying bond funds for the long-term ?
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
On line 3 of the QDCGT worksheet , as you say , you enter the smaller of your long-term gains and total gains . Assuming you did not have a loss in either category , your long-term gains will be less than both long - and short-term combined , so you will enter long-term gains here . On line 7 of this worksheet , you effectively subtract your long-term gains from your taxable income , leaving your short-term gains lumped with the rest of your ordinary income on Line 7 . Most of the worksheet then computes your tax on the long-term gains , but on Line 24 you compute the tax on Line 7 , which , as mentioned , includes your short-term gains . Thus , this worksheet lumps your short-term gains with the rest of your income . Your short-term gains do not get the preferential tax treatment which is encoded in line 8-23 of the QDCGT worksheet . It is not easy to see this because the logic of those lines on the worksheet is rather opaque . The rough summary is that , since your long-term gains alone are always smaller than your total income ( including short-term gains ) , the various lines which tell you to enter " the smaller of X or Y " result in you entering your long-term gains ( or portions of them falling into various brackets ) , on which the preferential tax is then computed . So when you went through that worksheet , you were treating the two separately , you just did n't realize it . The amounts on Lines 20 and 23 are your capital gains taxes , and whatever amount you had on Line 11 was taxed at 0 % ( as mentioned on the worksheet ) . If you had had no long-term gains , all of your income would have remained on Line 7 and been subject to ordinary-income rates as computed at Line 24 . If you use the tax table on your total taxable income , you should get a higher number than you wind up with on the final line of the QDCGT worksheet .
An IFA ( Independent Financial Advisor , not Institute of Financial Accountants ! ) will give you financial advice and potentially set up certain investments for you . They are regulated by the FCA in terms of what types of products they are permitted to advise on ; anyone who is not regulated as a Financial Advisor ( Independent or otherwise ) may only offer INFORMATION , not ADVICE . An accountant is a more general term for someone who will actually complete paperwork ( whether that be company accounts , personal tax returns , whatever ) and help with questions about your existing situation . They will generally not be permitted to offer advice on which investment products to choose for a new investment . Of course some accountancy firms may offer both types of service . It sounds as though the one you are looking at does n't offer what you need , but you could always ask - as they are so heavily regulated by the FCA they will have to tell you if they ca n't provide what you are asking for ! The Money Advice Service has advice on choosing an advisor : <URL> unbiased.co.uk has an overview of the different types of professional help : <URL>
CFD stands for <URL> and is an agreement between you and your broker . When the contract is closed the broker promises to pay a certain amount for every <URL> the bought currency has moved in your favour , if it moved against you it 's you who pays the broker . The term comes from the fact that upon closing the position you take the difference between the closing price and the opening price and that money is transferred/deducted to/from your account . It is important to note that at no point you actually physically or virtually possess the bought currency , nor must you deliver the sold currency . The FX spot market differs from that in the last point : You physically or virtually exchange currencies . This means you receive/pay interest on the bought/borrowed currencies if held overnight . And also this implies that there 's no " open position " like in the CFD case ( put differently your USD balance does n't remember if it came about by selling AUDs or EURs ) . Some platforms , however , have a " close everything " button , i.e. to sell all currencies that are n't your base currencies . In this regard perhaps even more surprising but depending on your broker , and whether or not they grant you direct market access and , if so , the actual market ( <URL> ) , you will trade in <URL> , that means the quotes you see are only valid for when you trade exact multiples of the lot sizes of the currencies involved ( so called even-lot trade ) . Anything odd needs to be traded in an odd lot order for which there 's either a surcharge or wider spreads .
Tradable is a much broader term than marketable . For example , some programmers/developers sell their services online , hence programming is a tradable service . However , it is not a security nor is it marketable since it can not readily be converted to cash . All marketable securities are , by definition , tradable .
As far as I can recall , savings and chequing accounts exist due to regulations on the banking industry that put were into effect after the depression to prevent a " run " on the bank . A chequing account is a " demand " account , meaning you can go and demand your money , and they have to pay immediately , by means of a withdrawal or a cheque . Banks used to get out of hand and loan out pretty much all the money they had on deposit , and of course those people with loans just put the money they borrowed into another chequing account and the bank loaned that out to someone else . The money that people believed they had access to multiplied indefinitely . However , when everyone goes to take that money out at the same time , you have a run on the bank . Therefore , government regulations stipulate a % that the bank must have on-hand . The typical number is 5 % . That effectively limits the money multiplier to 19 times . Savings accounts get around this restriction by putting limits on how much and how quickly you can withdraw the amounts . They pay you more interest because the money in a savings account is worth more to them , because it 's not subject to those restrictions . Some chequing accounts pay interest , but you have to maintain a minimum balance . Some savings accounts allow you to write cheques , but I assume the withdrawal limitations probably still apply . There 's also something to do with deposit insurance ( as in , the chequing accounts are covered by government deposit insurance , but savings accounts are not ) . I 'm not 100 % certain of that though .
( Assuming you are in the USA ) If your money is not in a qualified ( eg retirement ) account , any distribution from the fund is going to be taxable to you , either as regular income or capital gain . Reinvesting the dividend does not change that . ( Municipal bond funds may or may not be taxable , depending on where you live . ) Most funds will use cash-on-hand coming from interest payments and capital gains ( if they actively manage their portfolio ) to reinvest , but in the USA funds must distribute a certain percentage of the interest/gains they recieve from the holdings or else they have tax implications that will affect expenses and NAV .
A bond fund will typically own a range of bonds of various durations , in your specific fund : The fund holds high-quality long-term New York municipal bonds with an average duration of approximately 6 -- 10 years So through this fund you get to own a range of bonds and the fund price will behave similar to you owning the bonds directly . The fund gives you a little diversification in terms of durations and typically a bit more liquidity . It also may continuously buy bonds over time so you get some averaging vs. just buying a bond at a given time and holding it to maturity . This last bit is important , over long durations the bond fund may perform quite differently than owning a bond to maturity due to this ongoing refresh . Another thing to remember is that you 're paying management fees for the fund 's management . As with any bond investment , the longer the duration the more sensitive the price is to change in interest rates because when interest rates change the price will track it . ( i.e. compare a change of 1 % for a one year duration vs. 1 % yearly over 10 years ) If I 'm correct , why would anyone in the U.S. buy a long-term bond fund in a market like this one , where interest rates are practically bottomed out ? That is the multi-trillion dollar question . Bond prices today reflect what " people " are willing to pay for them . Those " people " include the Federal Reserve which through various programs ( QE , Operate Twist etc. ) has been forcing the interest rates to where they want to see them . If no one believed the Fed would be able to keep interest rates where they want them then the prices would be different but given that investors know the Fed has access to an infinite supply of money it becomes a more difficult decision to bet against that . ( aka " Do n't fight the Fed " ) . My personal belief is that rates will come up but I have n't been able to translate that belief into making money ;-) This question is very complex and has to do not only with US policies and economy but with the status of the US currency in the world and the world economy in general . The other saying that comes to mind in this context is that the market can remain irrational ( and it certainly seems to be that ) longer than you can remain solvent .
" Cleared " means that the transaction is settled at the bank/merchant . An example would be when you pay a credit card bill , the bank will acknowledge receipt of your payment at some point . " Reconciled " means that you 've verified the account against your records . In this case , you want to verify your future dated transactions against the actual statement received from the bank/merchant .
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
The main difference between an ETF and a Mutual Fund is Management . An ETF will track a specific index with NO manager input . A Mutual Fund has a manager that is trying to choose securities for its fund based on the mandate of the fund . Liquidity ETFs trade like a stock , so you can buy at 10am and sell at 11 if you wish . Mutual Funds ( most ) are valued at the end of each business day , so no intraday trading . Also ETFs are similar to stocks in that you need a buyer/seller for the ETF that you want/have . Whereas a mutual fund 's units are sold back to itself . I do not know of many if any liquity issues with an ETF , but you could be stuck holding it if you can not find a buyer ( usually the market maker ) . Mutual Funds can be closed to trading , however it is rare . Tax treatment Both come down to the underlying holdings in the fund or ETF . However , more often in Mutual Funds you could be stuck paying someone else 's taxes , not true with an ETF . For example , you buy an Equity Mutual Fund 5 years ago , you sell the fund yourself today for little to no gain . I buy the fund a month ago and the fund manager sells a bunch of the stocks they bought for it 10 years ago for a hefty gain . I have a tax liability , you do not even though it is possible that neither of us have any gains in our pocket . It can even go one step further and 6 months from now I could be down money on paper and still have a tax liability . Expenses A Mutual Fund has an MER or Management Expense Ratio , you pay it no matter what . If the fund has a positive return of 12.5 % in any given year and it has an MER of 2.5 % , then you are up 10 % . However if the fund loses 7.5 % with the same MER , you are down 10 % . An ETF has a much smaller management fee ( typically 0.10-0 .95 % ) but you will have trading costs associated with any trades . Risks involved in these as well as any investment are many and likely too long to go into here . However in general , if you have a Canadian Stock ETF it will have similar risks to a Canadian Equity Mutual Fund . I hope this helps .
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
365D is represented on a daily chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each day the market is open . It represents 365 trading days . So if your SMA is based on the closed prices it would represent the average daily close price over the previous 365 days . As each day progresses the previous 365th day will be dropped off the average and the previous day will be added to it . To represent one year in a SMA you would need to include 52 weeks x 5 trading days per week minus any public holidays that fall on a trading day . 52W is represented on a weekly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each week . So the Open would be the opening price on Monday morning , the Close would be the closing price on Friday afternoon , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the week . If your SMA is based on the weekly close price it would represent the average weekly close ( the close price for each Friday afternoon unless the Friday is a public holiday then the close price on Thursday afternoon ) over the previous 52 weeks . 12M is represented on a monthly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each month . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the 1st of the months ( or first trading day of the month ) , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the month , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the month . If your SMA is based on the monthly close price it would represent the average monthly close ( the close price for the afternoon of the last trading day of the month ) over the previous 12 months . 1Y is represented on a yearly chart where the Open , High , Low and Close are for each year . So the Open would be the opening price on the morning of the first trading day of the year , the Close would be the closing price on the afternoon of the last trading day of the year , and the High and Low would be the highest and lowest prices during the year . Note : a 1Y SMA on a yearly chart would simply represent the close price for each year , so the get an effective SMA on a yearly chart you would need to use a longer period than 1Y . So 52W , 12M and 1Y all represent one year on a chart , however , 365D would actually represent more than a year because there are less than 365 trading days in a year . Also , to use both monthly or yearly charts you would want to be looking at very long term time periods , or else the chart would not tell you very much and be better represented in either weekly or daily time frames . For Monthly charts you would want to be looking at least at 5 years plus of data , and for yearly charts at least 50 to 100 years or more of data .
While they are generally analogous , they have different objectives . According to <URL> " the performance definition of the FICO risk score ( its stated design objective ) is to predict the likelihood that a consumer will go 90 days past due or worse in the subsequent 24 months after the score has been calculated . " Meanwhile debt ratings revolve around the entity 's perceived ability to meet its financial obligations . Debt rating emphasizes that the score is on the underlying security ( bond ) , which is purchased by investors . It is also a matter of semantics . Both Investopedia and Wikipedia consider credit rating to be an umbrella term which encompasses the credit worthiness of individuals and large entities . Both also view to mean and to refer to an individual 's credit rating . It 's also a question of practicality . They need to have different names to differentiate them . It would be odd to think of investing in most individual 's debt . So , it makes sense that the rating of such debt would have a different name . ( Bear in mind that securitized mortgage and credit card debt are aggregated , not sold on an individual basis . )
Hedging - You have an investment and are worried that the price might drop in the near future . You do n't want to sell as this will realise a capital gain for which you may have to pay capital gains tax . So instead you make an investment in another instrument ( sometimes called insurance ) to offset falls in your investment . An example may be that you own shares in XYZ . You feel the price has risen sharply over the last month and is due for a steep fall . So you buy some put option over XYZ . You pay a small premium and if the price of XYZ falls you will lose money on the shares but will make money on the put option , thus limiting your losses . If the price continues to go up you will only lose the premium you paid for the option ( very similar to an insurance policy ) . Diversification - This is when you may have say $ 100,000 to invest and spread your investments over a portfolio of shares , some units in a property fund and some bonds . So you are spreading your risks and returns over a range of products . The idea is if one stock or one sector goes down , you will not lose a large portion of your investment , as it is unlikely that all the different sectors will all go down at the same time .
These are two different ways of processing payments . They go through different systems many times , and are treated differently by the banks , credit card issuers and the stores . Merchants pay different fees on transactions paid by debit cards and by credit cards . Debit transactions require PIN , and are deducted from your bank account directly . In order to achieve that , the transaction has to reach the bank in real time , otherwise it will be declined . This means , that the merchant has to have a line of communications open to the relevant processor , that in turn has to be able to connect to the bank and get the authorization - all that while on-line . The bank verifies the PIN , authorizes the transaction , and deducts the amount from your account , while you 're still at the counter . Many times these transactions can not be reversed , and the fraud protections and warranties are different from credit transactions . Credit transactions do n't have to go to your card issuer at all . The merchant can accept credit payment without calling anyone , and without getting prior authorizations . Even if the merchant sends the transaction for authorization with its processor , if the processor can not reach the issuing bank - they can still approve the transaction under certain conditions . This is , however , never true with debit cards ( even if used as " credit " ) . They 're not deducted from your bank account , but accumulated on your credit card account . They 're posted there when the actual transaction reaches the card issuer , which may be many days ( and even many months ) after the transaction took place . Credit transactions can be reversed ( in some cases very easily ) , and enjoy from a higher level of fraud protection . In some countries ( and most , if not all , of the EU ) fraudulent credit transactions are never the consumer 's problem , always the bank 's . Not so with debit transactions . Banks may be encouraging you to use debit for several reasons : They do n't share the risk ( see fraud protection differences ) They get to deduct the money right away , they may be paying the merchant later ( depending on the contract between the merchant and the processor ) Merchants will probably prefer credit because : They do n't have to maintain communication to processor at all times ( although now with the Internet connections , it is less of a problem than when they had to make a phone call on each card ) . They can accept payments over the Internet and over the phone . Consumers will probably be better off with credit because : Its better protected against fraud Easier to reverse transaction ( dispute ) Allows deferring the actual payment ( credit cards only ) Many credit cards offer rewards , very few debit cards do , and if they do - the rewards are much lower .
The effect of making a single purchase , of size and timing described , would not cause market disequilibrium , it would only hurt you ( and your P&amp;L ) . As @littleadv said , you would be unlikely to get your order filled . There would n't be anyone to take the other side of your trade , There would n't be enough shares available at short notice , as a block . You asked about making a " sudden " purchase . Let 's say you placed the order and were willing to accept a series of partial fills e.g. in 5,000 or 10,000 share increments at a time , over a period of hours . This would be a more moderate approach . Even spread out over the span of a day , this remains unwise . You 'll alert the few market participants in that stock that you have a large interest in buying . You 'll probably drive up the price of the stock , due to basic supply and demand for available shares . You 'll create the perception of a " story " or other change in fundamentals about the company , and expectations of share price appreciation in the near future . Even if it is true , you 'll overpay , or possibly not be able to buy it at all , as existing shareholders wo n't want to sell if they think there is a chance for profit-taking . A better approach would be to buy small lots over the course of a week or month . But your transaction fees would increase . Investors make money in pink sheets and penny stocks due to increases in share price of 100 % ( on the low end ) , with a relatively small number of shares . It is n't feasible to earn speculator profits by purchasing huge blocks ( relative to number of shares outstanding ) of stock priced < $ 1.00 USD and profit from merely 25 % price increases on large volume .
If I do n't need this money for decades , meaning I can ride out periodical market crashes , why would I invest in bonds instead of funds that track broad stock market indexes ? You would n't . But you can never be 100 % sure that you really wo n't need the money for decades . Also , even if you do n't need it for decades , you can never be 100 % certain that the market will not be way down at the time , decades in the future , when you do need the money . The amount of your portfolio you allocate to bonds ( relative to stocks ) can be seen as a measure of your desire to guard against that uncertainty . I do n't think it 's accurate to say that " the general consensus is that your portfolio should at least be 25 % in bonds " . For a young investor with high risk tolerance , many would recommend less than that . For instance , <URL> from T. Rowe Price suggests no more than 10 % bonds for those in their 20s or 30s . Basically you would put money into bonds rather than stocks to reduce the volatility of your portfolio . If you care only about maximizing return and do n't care about volatility , then you do n't have to invest in bonds . But you probably actually do care about volatility , even if you do n't think you do . You might not care enough to put 25 % in bonds , but you might care enough to put 10 % in bonds .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
A " Fund " is generally speaking a collection of similar financial products , which are bundled into a single investment , so that you as an individual can buy a portion of the Fund rather than buying 50 portions of various products . e.g. a " Bond Fund " may be a collection of various corporate bonds that are bundled together . The performance of the Fund would be the aggregate of each individual item . Generally speaking Funds are like pre-packaged " diversification " . Rather than take time ( and fees ) to buy 50 different stocks on the same stock index , you could buy an " Index Fund " which represents the values of all of those stocks . A " Portfolio " is your individual package of investments . ie : the 20k you have in bonds + the 5k you have in shares , + the 50k you have in " Funds " + the 100k rental property you own . You might split the definition further buy saying " My 401 ( k ) portfolio &amp; my taxable portfolio &amp; my real estate portfolio " ( etc. ) , to denote how those items are invested . The implication of " Portfolio " is that you have considered how all of your investments work together ; ie : your 5k in stocks is not so risky , because it is only 5k out of your entire 185k portfolio , which includes some low risk bonds and funds . Another way of looking at it , is that a Fund is a special type of Portfolio . That is , a Fund is a portfolio , that someone will sell to someone else ( see Daniel 's answer below ) . For example : Imagine you had $ 5,000 invested in IBM shares , and also had $ 5,000 invested in Apple shares . Call this your portfolio . But you also want to sell your portfolio , so let 's also call it a ' fund ' . Then you sell half of your ' fund ' to a friend . So your friend ( let 's call him Maurice ) pays you $ 4,000 , to invest in your ' Fund ' . Maurice gives you $ 4k , and in return , you given him a note that says " Maurice owns 40 % of atp9 's Fund " . The following month , IBM pays you $ 100 in dividends . But , Maurice owns 40 % of those dividends . So you give him a cheque for $ 40 ( some funds automatically reinvest dividends for their clients instead of paying them out immediately ) . Then you sell your Apple shares for $ 6,000 ( a gain of $ 1,000 since you bought them ) . But Maurice owns 40 % of that 6k , so you give him $ 2,400 ( or perhaps , instead of giving him the money immediately , you reinvest it within the fund , and buy $ 6k of Microsoft shares ) . Why would you set up this Fund ? Because Maurice will pay you a fee equal to , let 's say , 1 % of his total investment . Your job is now to invest the money in the Fund , in a way that aligns with what you told Maurice when he signed the contract . ie : maybe it 's a tech fund , and you can only invest in big Tech companies . Maybe it 's an Index fund , and your investment needs to exactly match a specific portion of the New York Stock Exchange . Maybe it 's a bond fund , and you can only invest in corporate bonds . So to reiterate , a portfolio is a collection of investments ( think of an artist 's portfolio , being a collection of their work ) . Usually , people refer to their own ' portfolio ' , of personal investments . A fund is someone 's portfolio , that other people can invest in . This allows an individual investor to give some of their decision making over to a Fund manager . In addition to relying on expertise of others , this allows the investor to save on transaction costs , because they can have a well-diversified portfolio ( see what I did there ? ) while only buying into one or a few funds .
end question
start question
Selling items and exporting/posting to Africa , good idea or a potential nightmare ?
Other people are saying this might be a scam , or this sounds like a scam . THIS IS DEFINITELY 100 % A SCAM . Do not ship your computer equipment to these people . Personally I would never sell computer equipment outside of my country , and even then would probably use escrow .
The power of compounding interest and returns is an amazing thing . Start educating yourself about investing , and do it -- there are great Q&amp;A s on this site , numerous books ( I recommend " The Intelligent Investor " , tools for small investors ( like Sharebuilder.com ) and other resources out there to get you started . Your portfolio does n't need to include every dime you have either . But you do need to develop the discipline to save money -- even if that savings is $ 20 while you 're in school . How you split between cash/deposit account savings and other investment vehicles is a decision that needs to make sense to you .
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
Bad bad bad idea . Properly managed HOA has rules that regulate usage of the common areas and property ; HOA manages repairs and maintenance , insurance and reserve . Not having HOA means the owners deal with problems on their own , as the problems appear . Need to fix the roof ? Assessment . Need to paint the walls - assessment . The roofer fell and broke a leg - liability suit . Huuuuuge assessment . You really want to deal with that ?
I do n't believe you can do that . <URL> Finally , certain types of property are specifically excluded from Section 1031 treatment . Section 1031 does not apply to exchanges of : Inventory or stock in trade Stocks , bonds , or notes Other securities or debt Partnership interests Certificates of trust I highlighted the relevant items for emphasis .
The best bank with least amount of gotchas is Alliant Credit Union . I did a lot of research and finally decided on this bank . I did a comparative study between ING , Ally and Alliant and found Alliant to be superior than the the other two . More about my study : <URL> If you do find a better bank than this , please update this post , I 'd definitely like to know ! Disclaimer : I have no relationship with either of the three banks .
No-one can improve your credit but yourself . If the bad items on your credit report are genuine - there 's nothing much these firms can do for you , really , other than taking your money for telling you that . Disputing valid bad points on the report might reset the clock for them and keep them even longer on your record .
You ca n't actually transfer shares directly unless they were obtained as part of an employee share scheme - see the answers to questions 19 and 20 on this page : <URL> Q. Can I put shares from my employee share scheme into my ISA ? A . You can transfer any shares you get from an HMRC approved SAYE share option scheme run by your employer ( that is , a savings related share option - ' Sharesave ' ( or profit sharing scheme ) a Share Incentive Plan into a stocks and shares component of an ISA without having to pay Capital Gains Tax - provided your ISA manager agrees to take them . The value of the shares at the date of transfer counts towards the annual limit . This means you can transfer up to # 11,520 worth of shares in the tax year 2013-14 ( assuming that you make no other subscriptions to ISAs , in those years ) . You must transfer the shares within 90 days from the day they cease to be subject to the Plan , or ( for approved SAYE share option schemes ) 90 days of the exercise of option date . Your employer should be able to tell you more . Q. Can I put windfall or inherited shares in my ISA ? A. No . You can only transfer shares you own into an ISA if they have come from an employee share scheme . Otherwise , the ISA manager must purchase shares on the open market . The situation is the same if you have shares that you have inherited . You are not able to transfer them into an ISA .
First of all , the # 1 reason NOT to buy shares in a US-domiciled ETF is that you lose too much money on converting your Canadian dollars into US dollars in order to buy it , and again converting back when you sell . So unless you have a source of USD income , or are comfortable using Norbert 's Gambit , you should probably instead buy a Canadian ETF that holds US stocks , such as VUN or XUU . Those two are even broader than the S&amp;P 500 index , but that 's not a bad thing . If you can cheaply obtain USD , then you 'd be better off with VTI over SPY , because it 's MER is 4 basis points lower and has broader coverage of the US market . Now to answer your question , there are a few differences in the ways foreign equity is taxed compared to Canadian equities . The biggest difference is that dividends from Canadian companies gets favorable tax treatment , so you 'll pay less to the CRA than for dividends on US companies . But if you 're holding the ETF inside a TFSA , RRSP , or RESP then it is sheltered from all Canadian tax , regardless of where the ETF is domiciled or what country 's stocks are being held in it . A smaller difference with foreign equity is that foreign governments will apply a tax on dividend yields , called withholding tax , which varies from country to country . In the US the rate is 15 % ( for foreign investors who fill out a W-8BEN form ) . This tax is not charged when you hold a US-domiciled ETF in an RRSP . And if you are going to hold the stocks in a taxable account ( which you should only do if you 've already maxed out your TFSA and RRSP ) , then you can claim a foreign tax credit on your tax return that compensates you for the US withholding tax . <URL> by PWL Capital does a good job of explaining it and lists popular ETFs at the bottom showing the effect of the tax . I 'd also like to address the question asked in the topic , which is whether or not it 's a good idea to buy US equities . The answer is that it 's a good idea to diversify your investment portfolio across many countries . So yes , buy US equity ETFs ( either Canadian or US domiciled , depending on what currency you can get ) and also buy ETFs that hold Canadian equity , and some that hold international equity . And do n't just buy equities unless you 're willing to take big risks with your money . Most people will buy bond ETFs as well to protect themselves in case of market crashes . If this concept of diversification is new to you , maybe you should consider reading a little more on the topic of index investing . <URL> is great resource for learning , and has recommendations for ETFs and some model portofilos .
Technically , yes , you can do this . It 's a form of arbitrage : you 're taking advantage of a small price difference between two markets . But is it worth the hassle of keeping on top of the overdraft and making sure you do n't incur any accidental penalties or fees ? Interest rates are super low , and floating # 1000 or # 2000 , you 're only going to generate # 10-20 per year in a basic savings account .
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
If you have any non-mortgage debt -- e.g. a credit card , a line of credit , a student loan , or a car loan -- then I would pay that down first . The interest being paid on that kind of borrowed money likely exceeds what you could expect to earn in reasonable investments . If you do n't have any non-mortgage debt , and your mortgage is large ( e.g. thinking about it keeps you up at night , sometimes :-) then go for the the extra mortgage payment . Also go for the mortgage if you 're paying at a relatively high interest rate compared to what you could expect from investments . If your mortgage is small ( e.g. it 's going to be paid off in a few years ) and at a relatively low interest rate , then I would choose the RRSP or TFSA . Unless you 're in the top income tax bracket , I would favor the TFSA over RRSP -- TFSAs were only introduced this year and any balance there already is likely tiny compared to the RRSP . For retirement , I 'm aiming to have equal amounts of RRSP and TFSA money . One option you have n't mentioned is an RESP . If you have children under the age of 18 , your bonus could also be used to make next year 's RESP contribution and qualify for the 20 % matching Canada Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) from the government .
SeekingAlpha has an <URL> about short squeezes that states : The higher the number of days to cover means the possibility for a short squeeze is greater , and the potential size of the short squeeze is also greater Logically , this makes sense . A <URL> occurs when a lack of supply meets excess demand for a stock , so the potential for a squeeze increases when supply and demand begin to get out of equilibrium . Think of two things that would cause the days to cover to increase and what effect they would have on supply and demand . The current short interest ( numerator ) increases . This implies that if some event triggers short sellers to cover their position , there are a higher number of short sellers who will need to do so . This heightens the chances that demand will exceed supply . The average daily volume ( denominator ) decreases . This implies that fewer investors are trading the stock , so if an event triggers short sellers to cover their positions , there might not be enough traders in the market willing to sell their shares . ( Obviously , if a short-squeeze occurs , volume may increase because traders who were unwilling to sell their shares become willing ) .
There are a lot of things you can do to get a better tenant . This answer relates specifically for Sydney Australia . Regarding the Application Form : Name &amp; contact details Employment details including length of work , name &amp; contact details of HR manager Current and previous addresses and rents paid , and lengths of time at these addresses Landlord/Real estate details for each place listed on form whether they smoke any pets ( indoor or outdoor ) Emergency contact detail ( in case of emergency ) Get them to sign the bottom of the form below a statement which authorises you to ask questions about them ( this can be used if you need to talk to their real estate agent or their employer about them - sometimes they will not talk to you unless you have the applicant 's consent ) . Regarding Information for the applicant to provide you : Rental history - at least 6 months Rental Ledger from real estate agent or copy of their bank statement if they rent privately and pay rent by direct debit ( I usually do not accept rental receipts from a private landlord as anyone can buy a a receipt book and fill it out ) . Last 3 pay slips as a minimum , or proof of regular income if they are self employed . 100 point ID check If renting through a private landlord - copy of water rates or council rates to confirm details of landlord ( they could just pretend a friend of theirs is the landlord ) . copy of any welfare payments they might receive . any references ( mainly from previous real estate agents or landlords ) . Note this is a much lower priority than their rental history . Regarding Selection Criteria : The 3 top priorities are : Rental history - look for someone always paying on time ( this is my number one criteria ) - someone who has missed payments or paid late in the past is more likely to do it in the future . Cleanliness of the tenant - this can be quite hard to check since they have not lived in your place yet , so what I do is tell them that if we short list them then we go to their current home to see how they live and how clean they are . They do n't have to accept , but if they do n't then they may be hiding something . We find most good tenants have no problems letting us in . We have usually checked everything else by this stage so if we are happy we usually sign the lease whilst at their place . Current employment , stability of employment and income level . Other things you can check : Always confirm with the real estate or landlord regarding the rental history they have given you . We have had someone in the past who had forged their rental ledger , we were about to go with them , but a last check with their real estate agent confirmed that the ledger they gave us was not provided by the agent . They faxed us the correct ledger which was very different . This one check saved us a potential big problem . We usually also screen people when they ring up to see if they have the required information . If they do n't then we do not accept an application from them and save our time having to show bad tenants the property . Instead of having 20 to 30 people during a showing we might have 2 or 3 . This gives us time to talk with each applicant and get to know them a bit . You can learn a lot about a person just by talking to them . But you always do your checks to confirm everything . Also , be wary of people with no rental history ; we usually do not accept them , including home owners who are selling their home . If you 're asking , surly if they are home owners they should take care of your property . Not always the case . If someone has never rented before they may be renting for the short term before they buy again . If they are in a house they think is temporary , do you think they will treat it the same as a house they treat as their own ? Usually not . There are exceptions , but do you want to take the risk . That is why we have the policy of not accepting an application if they have no rental history - again this is the number one priority - a good rental history , as in this case history will usually repeat itself . It is your asset and you need to do everything in your power to protect it . A good tenant is the difference between a great asset that can provide for you now into your future and a head-ache you want to get rid of . Also , one thing I forgot to include is that we allow outdoor pets ( dogs and cats ) only , and if they do have pets there is usually an additional $ 10 per week added onto the rent ( we include this in our advertising ) . Small fish in a fish tank is an exception . We charge the extra $ 10 per week in rent because the pets can add to the wear and tear on the property .
That info is n't in the credit card transaction data record . Keep and scan your receipts .
Your question has a built in faulty premise . " ASSUMING a person knows how to use and invest their money wisely " I 'd ask if you were wise enough to beat the investments offered in your 401 ( k ) after expenses , and with respect to the potential tax savings . Then , since I 'm a proponent of " deposit to the match , even if you have to eat rice and beans to find the cash to do " I 'll extend the question to ask if you can beat the choices taking the match into account . 401 ( k ) - Your $ 1000 starts as $ 1500 and has a tax due on withdrawal years later . AeroAccount - You start with $ 750 ( after the tax ) and might spend a decade before hitting $ 1500 . Start your own company ? That might be another story . But to invest in the market and still beat the matched 401 ( k ) takes a bit more wisdom than I 'd claim to have .
From <URL> A frontier market is a type of developing country which is more developed than the least developing countries , but too small to be generally considered an emerging market . The term is an economic term which was coined by International Finance Corporation 's Farida Khambata in 1992 . The term is commonly used to describe the equity markets of the smaller and less accessible , but still " investable " , countries of the developing world . The frontier , or pre-emerging equity markets are typically pursued by investors seeking high , long-run return potential as well as low correlations with other markets . Some frontier market countries were emerging markets in the past , but have regressed to frontier status . Investopedia has a <URL> on Emerging Vs Frontier While frontier market investments certainly come with some substantial risks , they also may post the kind of returns that emerging markets did during the 1990s and early 2000s . The frontier market contains anywhere from one-fifth to one-third of the world 's population and includes several exponentially growing economies . The other Question and are they a good option as well ? This depends on risk appetite and your current investment profile . If you have already invested in domestic markets with a well diversified portfolio and have also invested in emerging markets , you can then think of expanding your portfolio into these .
In general , no , not in a strict monetary sense . ( As @MrChrister noted in a comment . ) The primary exception to this , for me , would be in the case of a DIY renovation and a house-flip . Given an outdated house in a good neighbourhood , and spending a reasonable amount on a selected set of renovations could make the house saleable to a different target audience , which might be willing to pay more than the dollar cost ( including your labour ) of the renovations themselves .
Short answer : the CD can be considered as part of the down payment calculations . they will want a plan to cash them in the last days or weeks before settlement . When approving you for a mortgage they will be looking at : Income : Generally salary or from a guaranteed stream like a pension or social security . Commission based income is a special case . But generally not investment income . Expenses that you are committed to : Car Loans , school loans , other loans . Credit Card balances . Do you have other real estate that you will not be selling before completing this transaction . They will count taxes and Home Owner Association ( HOA ) fees as an expense . This could have a mortgage . If it has a renter this would be both income and expense . Other real estate that you will be selling prior to this transaction . Credit Score . They now know what you can afford to dedicate to this new property every month . They take into account principal , interest , taxes , insurance and the HOA fee . They will then look at how much money you will use as a down payment . They want this money to exist before applying , and they will check on its existence in the last days before settlement . The best is cash sitting in a bank . But it can also be money in savings bonds , or a CD , but they will want a plan for cashing that in just before settlement . They wo n't be comfortable with it being in a volatile account such as stocks especially if the current balance is exactly what you need for a mortgage that wo n't be closed for 3 more months . Because people use money they borrow from their 401K for a home purchase , it is possible to use money from volatile account . They will want to see a plan for getting money from these accounts just before settlement .
" add the interest for the next 5 payments and divide that by how much you paid on the principal during that time " Let 's see - on a $ 200K 6 % loan , the first 5 months is $ 4869 . Principal reduction is $ 1127 . I get 4.32 or 432 % . But this is nonsense , you divide the interest over the mortgage balance , and get 6 % . You only get those crazy numbers by dividing meaningless ratios . The fact that early on in a mortgage most of the payment goes to interest is a simple fact of the the 30 year nature of amortizing . You are in control , just add extra principal to the payment , if you wish . This idea sounds like the Money Merge Account peddled by UFirst . It 's a scam if ever there was one . I wrote about it extensively on my site and have <URL> . Once you get to this page , the first link is for a free spreadsheet to download , it beats MMA every time and shows how prepaying works , no smoke , no mirrors . The second link is a 65 page PDF that compiles nearly all my writing on this topic as I was one of the finance bloggers doing what I could to expose this scam . I admit it became a crusade , I went as far as buying key word ads on google to attract the search for " money merge account " only to help those looking to buy it find the truth . In the end , I spent a few hundred dollars but saved every visitor the $ 3500 loss of this program . No agent who dialoged with me in public could answer my questions in full , as they fell back on " you need to believe in it . " I have no issue with faith-based religion , it actually stands to reason , but mortgages are numbers and there 's order to them . If you want my $ 3500 , you should know how your system works . Not one does , or they would know it was a scam . Nassim Taleb , author of " The Black Swan " offered up a wonderful quote , " if you see fraud , and do not say ' fraud , ' you are a fraud . " The site you link to is n't selling a product , but a fraudulent idea . What 's most disturbing to me is that the math to disprove his assertion is not complex , not beyond grade school arithmetic . Update 2015 - The linked " rule of thumb " is still there . Still wrong of course . Another scam selling software to do this is now promoted by a spin off of UFirst , called Worth Unlimited . Same scam , new name .
end question
start question
Can a reimbursable medical expense be paid from an HSA ?
A medical expense is only a qualified medical expense eligible for an HSA distribution if it is not reimbursed by insurance . If you know that you will be reimbursed , do not pay for it through your HSA . Think of it this way : you can only be reimbursed for a medical expense once . Either you get reimbursed by your insurance , or you get reimbursed by your HSA , but not both . If you pay for the expense with your HSA and are later reimbursed , you need to return the money to your HSA through a <URL> . This is not considered a contribution , but you need to make sure to tell your HSA provider that it is a mistaken distribution repayment and not a contribution , so that it gets accounted for correctly .
Yes it is very likely that you will have different credit scores for the different companies . keep in mind the different companies have different algorithms . Also some creditors may not report information to the different companies . It is possible that a mistake does n't appear in all the companies , thus giving different results . Also remember that your score can change everyday , because some of the numbers used are a snapshot . Your credit utilization changes with every charge , and every payment ; but is only reported to the credit agencies monthly . If you have multiple cards , loans , lines of credit , the utilization rate might change several times a month .
This is referred to as a Mistaken Distribution . An HSA mistaken distribution occurs when you take a distribution and later find out that it is not for a qualified medical expense . For example , this could occur if you accidentally pay for a restaurant dinner with your HSA debit card . It can also occur if you take a distribution to pay for a medical expense , but then are later reimbursed by insurance . This is discussed in the <URL> . ( Note : these forms are submitted by the HSA bank , not the consumer , so the instructions are addressed to them . ) HSA mistaken distributions . If amounts were distributed during the year from an HSA because of a mistake of fact due to reasonable cause , the account beneficiary may repay the mistaken distribution no later than April 15 following the first year the account beneficiary knew or should have known the distribution was a mistake . For example , the account beneficiary reasonably , but mistakenly , believed that an expense was a qualified medical expense and was reimbursed for that expense from the HSA . The account beneficiary then repays the mistaken distribution to the HSA . You have until April 15 in the year following the refund to repay the HSA and avoid the extra tax and penalty that should be paid if you were to keep the distribution that was not ultimately used for medical expenses . When you send the money to the HSA bank , you need to explicitly tell them that it is a mistaken distribution repayment , so that they can report it to the IRS correctly and it will not affect your contribution limits .
There are certain allowable reasons to withdraw money from a 401K . The desire to free your money from a " bad " plan is not one of them . A rollover is a special type of withdrawal that is only available after one leaves their current employer . So as long as you stay with your current company , you can not rollover . [ Exception : if you are over age 59.5 ] One option is to talk to HR , see if they can get a expansion of offerings . You might have some suggestions for mutual funds that you would like to see . The smaller the company the more likely you will have success here . That being said , there is some research to support having few choices . Too many choices intimidates people . It 's quite popular to have " target funds " That is funds that target a certain retirement year . Being that I will be 50 in 2016 , I should invest in either a 2030 or 2035 fund . These are a collection of funds that rebalances the investment as they age . The closer one gets to retirement the more goes into bonds and less into stocks . However , I think such rebalancing is not as smart as the experts say . IMHO is almost always better off heavily invested in equity funds . So this becomes a second option . Invest in a Target fund that is meant for younger people . In my case I would put into a 2060 or even 2065 target . As JoeTaxpayer pointed out , even in a plan that has high fees and poor choices one is often better off contributing up to the match . Then one would go outside and contribute to an individual ROTH or IRA ( income restrictions may apply ) , then back into the 401K until the desired amount is invested . You could always move on to a different employer and ask some really good questions about their 401K . Which leads me back to talking with HR . With the current technology shortage , making a few tweaks to the 401K , is a very cheap way to make their employees happy . If you can score a 1099 contracting gig , you can do a SEP which allows up to a whopping 53K per year . No match but with typically higher pay , sometimes overtime , and a high contribution limit you can easily make up for it .
Yes you are eligible even if your spouse is enrolled in Medicare . As long as YOU are not enrolled in Medicare you can contribute to an HSA . You may use the money to pay the cost of qualified medical expenses for you and your spouse . Here are some resources with additional information : <URL> <URL>
My French is very rusty and <URL> is in French only . But with my rusty French I could n't find any information that would suggest that they actually do refunds . From my experience ( with other countries , not France ) , once a private person pays the VAT/customs - they 're non-refundable ( unless you 're a tourist that is and can claim refund ) .
Your spouse is eligible for an HSA even if you have one as long as she is covered by a qualified high-deductible plan . In the case that you both had HSAs you would be limited in how much you contribute each year , but both can have accounts . In 2015 , you could each contribute $ 3350 to your separate HSA plans . If you have a combined plan , and even if you switched mid year , you could contribute $ 6650 during that year total to the two HSAs . That can be divided any way you want as long as the total does not exceed that maximum for the year . You can contribute an extra $ 1000 if you are over 55 years old . ( I should probably also mention that you can still make contributions for the 2015 year until April 15 , 2016 , because it 's relevant to most who would read this . Also you can only contribute a percentage of that limit matching the percentage of months that you are covered , but if you are covered for the last month of the year , you can contribute the full amount as long as you are covered for the ENTIRE following year . )
I find it best to go to <URL> ( i.e. the company that operates the fund , in this case Vanguard ) : Extended Market ETF 0.16 %
Probably not . A debit of 50K in your Bank statement does not mean that its invested into tax saving instrument . This question is best answered by the finance department of your company . Practise vary from organization to organization .
In short no you ca n't max out your contributions for the year and then switch to another non HSA plan or drop insurance altogether . You can contribute 1/12 of your contribution limit for each month you have a qualified HSA plan . The only exception is for December if you have a qualified HSA plan December 1st you can take the entire years worth of contributions , but in order to do so and not be penalized you must remain in an HSA plan for at least 1 year . You should keep this in mind if you have had your HSA plan for less than a year and maxed out your 2010 contribution . You would be advised to look at Pub 969 <URL>
<URL> says you can roll over a 401k to another 401k . <URL> says that Solo 401ks " have the same rules and requirements as any other 401 ( k ) plan " , so you should be able to roll over a past employer 401k to a solo 401k . ( You ca n't generally roll over an employer 401k while you 're still with that employer , but you say these are old 401ks so they should be okay . ) Other pages from various investment firms and financial bloggers also say it is possible to do this ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) . However <URL> on the Bogleheads wiki says that " not all Solo 401 ( k ) plans accept incoming rollovers " . So even if it 's legal for you to do the rollover , that does n't mean the company you 're using to administer your Solo 401k will actually let you do it . If Vanguard wo n't let you do it , you could shop around to other Solo 401k providers to find one that will .
Yes , you can be your own administrator for a Solo 401k . This is normally called a non-prototype/non-model/self-directed solo 401k plan . In a standard plan , you would just open up a an solo 401k account with one of the major providers like Fidelity , Schwab , ING , etc. . They would act as your administrator and broker . As an administrator they would handle tax documents like <URL> , <URL> to keep up to date with new laws and regulations . As the broker they would handle your investments . In a non-prototype plan , you use a Third Party Administrator ( TPA ) to <URL> to suit your needs . There are a number of them out there , some will create just a plan for a flat fee ( recommended ) and some will can create the plan and manage the account for you ( custodian ) . If you stay away from <URL> and can keep good financial records , you will likely be fine being your own administrator . Having a Solo 401k plan has some big advantages , you can <URL> , or participate in a variety of other non-traditional investments like <URL> , ETF 's , stocks , futures , FOREX , etc. . Most of these are unavailable in a standard Solo 401K from large administrator/brokers as they try to keep administrative costs low and money within their managed portfolios .
California bankruptcy law requires disclosure of any gift made by the person declaring bankruptcy in the past 12 months , and any asset transfers in the past 2 years ( with a couple of minor exceptions ) . This would most certainly include the car , if it is regifted back to you . Such a claim would likely be considered fraudulent , though this would be a matter for the lawyers and bankruptcy trustee in question . There 's a blog which you may wish to check out , the California Bankruptcy Blog , which has a specific entry on <URL> . Now , there is a specific exemption for automobiles , but only up to a <URL> . Legally , I believe there 's nothing you can do here . If the $ 10K was a loan , it will be discharged in bankruptcy . If it was a gift , it 'll have to be declared and the car will have to be sold . If regifted or transferred , it must be declared and will likely ( but not definitely ) be determined as an invalid disposal of assets . Either you or your family member will have to discuss this with a bankruptcy lawyer . I 'm sorry your generous act is likely to get tangled up here . :(
Yes , copays and costs associated with vaccinations are qualified medical expenses under HSA guidelines . Receiving a vaccine is a service , not a prescription drug . You do n't take the vaccine home with you . You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for prescribed medicines and drugs . A prescribed drug is one that requires a prescription by a doctor for its use by an individual . <URL> Additionally , the ACA mandated that certain preventive care services be made available at zero cost . Here 's a list of the ACA Mandated preventive care benefits related to immunization : Immunization vaccines Diphtheria Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Herpes Zoster Human Papillomavirus ( HPV ) Influenza ( flu shot ) Measles Meningococcal Mumps Pertussis Pneumococcal Rubella Tetanus Varicella ( Chickenpox ) Carriers are free to add to this list , but these are the minimums required . <URL> When you make your appointment , be clear that you 're making a preventive care appointment for XYZ .
If you invest inside an HSA , it is very similar to investing inside an IRA . Any distributions stay in the HSA . If you sell an investment , the proceeds stay in the HSA . The only way you get any money out of an HSA without penalty before age 65 is to pay for qualified medical expenses . If you still have money in there at age 65 , you can withdraw it without a qualified medical expense , but you have to pay tax on the distributions ( just like with a traditional IRA ) . So , an HSA gives you tax-free gains if you spend it on qualified medical expenses , and tax-deferred gains if you withdraw it after age 65 without a qualified medical expense . <URL> has more details .
I think your first step is to be asking for an itemized billing as to exactly what services they claim to have rendered in the half hour that would result in that sort of charges . These days a lot of medical providers have outrageously high rates if you are not a member of a medical plan that has negotiated rates with the provider . I 've heard of instances where someone without insurance was being charged anywhere from 5-8 TIMES more than someone covered by a health plan would be billed . ( this seems to be the new tactic to make up for the expenses of covering those without coverage or a means to pay . Once you have some kind of accounting for the charges , if you ca n't get them to reduce it to a reasonable level , it might be time to contact a consumer advocate at a local paper or news station . If you were recommended specifically to this OT by your primary provider , I 'd also let them know about these insane charges , and you might want to suggest it would be in the best interests of their patients for them to find someone else ( with less egregious fee schedule ) to refer patients to for such services in the future . An important lesson here is to ask about charges and insurance coverage IN ADVANCE and do n't be afraid to shop around and check multiple providers . There is very little transparency of pricing in the healthcare industry at the moment , and prices for the very same procedure ( such as a consult , or medical imaging ) can vary widely ( e.g. three maybe even four digit percentage differences ) from one provider to another . You really need to be an informed consumer when it comes to health care these days to avoid being taken to the cleaners .
You can not carry bills over to the next year . You can only get reimbursement from your FSA for amounts incurred in the period the FSA covers , so if your FSA covers calendar year - the next year 's FSA wo n't be able to provide reimbursement for the previous year bill . Note that asking the doctor to split the bill and bill you on different days wo n't work either because you incur the cost on the day of the surgery . Misreporting to overcome that limitation is considered insurance fraud ( a felony ) . If this is not an option , then what other options could I have to cover the entire surgery with my FSA account ? None .
Stop watching . When I first got a job where I could log in to a website and view accounts , I did so pretty heavily for a few months . Typically there is n't any harm , but there are downsides ; you might be more tempted to trade or act on a rumor . You simply have more opportunity to act on a whim if you are logged in to your account . So stop watching . I have will power issues , so I ca n't have too much junk food in the house , and I learned to quit logging into my brokerage account . ( I still stare at quicken every couple nights . ) Just setup up systems to automatically deposit money and make purchases . Once a year on your birthday , log in and do whatever maintenance you need to do like overbalancing and such . If you really are a buy and hold type investor ( I am , for all the reasons you cited ) then be a buy and hold and stop watching one .
When you submit for reimbursement , the cash you get should be FIFO ( first in , first out ) and a large bill should empty out 2011 first , automatically tapping 12 for remaining amount owed . I doubt you need to do anything .
Having money held from one paycheck hardly counts as being covered by a retirement plan in my book ! It 's not your book that counts , it 's the Congress ' book called the Internal Revenue Code . No , you can not rescind a contribution after the fact . Maybe during the year you can do something with employer balancing it out , but not after the year is closed . ( That , by the way , is different for IRAs where you can actually do re-characterization until the tax day of the next year )
end question
start question
How to track expenses from an account in gnucash ?
What you 're looking for is the ' Transaction Report ' . When you 're looking at the report ( it comes up empty ) , open the options and click on the first tab ' Accounts ' . Here you can highlight multiple source accounts in the top pane , and filter by the Expense accounts that you are interested in the bottom pane . Here 's an <URL> that goes over the process ( there are many examples online , I just included the first one that came up in a search ) .
The mathematical answer is for you to have a diversified portfolio in your ISA . But that 's easier said than done .
You can see some IRS info on distinguishing a business from a hobby <URL> . Nolo also has <URL> . The upshot is that you can only deduct losses if your activity is , in the judgement of the IRS , a for-profit endeavor . You do n't have to make a profit right away , or make a profit every year , for it to be a for-profit endeavor , but you have to be able to convince the IRS that you 're doing it in order to ( eventually ) make a profit , not just for fun . You ca n't just keep deducting the losses year after year if ( as in the worst case you suggest ) it never makes a profit and does n't seem to have any chance of doing so .
In general , one should look at their allocation and adjust it on a regular basis , annual is a typical choice . Withdrawals are cash , of course , and after a year of withdrawals , you 'd look and see what needs to be done to re-balance . Keeping two accounts is fine , but you still have one portfolio . And depending how the stock account is invested , it will accumulate cash from the dividends . There 's no magic way to do this . And no magic mix , except , perhaps , for the mix that lets you sleep best at night . As you withdraw your cash , the stock % will increase a bit , as it will 2/3 of the time , when the market rises . In down years , your reallocation might be to purchase more stock . Note - littleadv asked an interesting point of clarification , worth addressing . Some people are confused regarding RMDs . Obviously , if you need spending money , you ca n't spend shares of Apple . But , to satisfy your RMD , you can withdraw shares ' in-kind ' which means taking the stock as an RMD . Say your IRA happens to have a mix of stocks and your RMD is $ 5000 . You can transfer 10 shares of Apple from the IRA to the non-retirement broker account , and once it clears , you 'll see the value it was transferred at . You then might have to take a few hundred dollars more to meet the exact RMD , or you might have gone a bit over . Now you 'll treat the RMD as income , and will need to pay tax out of your cash account .
I would suggest to buy your own printer , and calculate the cost for a page including the wear to the printer . Then either deduce these printing expenses , or ask the charity to reimburse you . This is not much different than when you would go to a copyshop , those easily charge 10-30c per page , with your own printer you can probably get it around 5-10c per page , including paper , toner , drum , and amortization . The advantage is that when you do use the printer for other purposes , you wont get into any problems with who owns the printer or deductions .
In the US there 's no significant difference between what a business can deduct and what an individual can deduct . However , you can only deduct what is an expense to produce income . Businesses are allowed to write off salaries , but individuals ca n't write off what they pay their gardener or maid ( at least in the US ) If you 're a sole proprietor in the business of managing properties - you can definitely deduct payments to gardeners or maids . Business paying for a gardener on a private property not related to producing the income ( like CEO 's daughter 's house ) can not deduct that expense for tax purposes ( although it is still recorded in the business accounting books as an expense - with no tax benefit ) . Businesses are allowed to deduct utility expenses as overhead , individuals can not Same thing exactly . I can deduct utility expenses for my rental property , but not for my primary residence . Food , shelter , clothing and medical care are fundamental human needs , but we still pay for them with after-tax money , and pay additional sales tax . Only interest ( and not principal ) on a mortgage is deductible in the US , which is great for people who take out mortgages ( and helps banks get more business , I 'm sure ) , but you 're out of luck if you pay cash for your house , or are renting . Sales taxes are deductible . You can deduct sales taxes you paid during the year if you itemize your deduction . You can chose - you either deduct the sales taxes or the State income taxes , whatever is more beneficial for you . BTW in many states food and medicine are exempt from sales tax . Medical expenses are deductible if they 're significant compared to your total income . You can deduct medical expenses in excess of 10 % of your AGI . With the ACA kicking in - I do n't see how would people even get to that . If your AGI is low you get subsidies for insurance , and the insurance keeps your expenses capped . For self-employed and employed , insurance premiums are pre-tax ( i.e. : not even added to your AGI ) . Principle for mortgage is not deductible because it is not an expense - it is equity . You own an asset , do n't you ? You do get the standard deduction , even if your itemized ( real ) deductions are less - business do n't get that . You also get an exemption amount ( for your basic living needs ) , which businesses do n't get . You can argue about the amounts - but it is there . In some States ( like California ) renters get tax breaks for renting , depending on the AGI . CA renters credit is phasing out at AGI of about $ 60K , which is pretty high .
It depends on how big the inheritance was . <URL> you are in the clear unless the total assets she inherits exceed $ 1 Million . Edit - In 2013 , the amount one can leave and have no federal estate tax issue is $ 5.25 M. It 's the deceased 's estate that pays the tax , not the beneficiary . So even if this were above the number , it 's received post-tax . The article linked above is current .
Just set up a budget . Indicate how much money comes in , how much goes out to must pay expenses ( lodging , food , gas , heat , cooling , etc ) , and determine how much is leftover for anything else you want . If that amount is ok , then you 're fine . If not , something needs adjusting .
<URL> is the go-to document . Without being a tax professional , I 'd say if the dues and subscriptions help you in the running of your business , then they 're deductible . You 're on your own if you take my advice ( or do n't ) . ;)
Assuming that the NRE ( NonResident External ) account is in good standing , that is , you are still eligible to have an NRE account because your status as a NonResident of India has not changed in the interim , you can transfer money back from your NRE account to your US accounts without any problems . But be aware that you bear the risk of getting back a much smaller amount than you invested in the NRE account because of devaluation of the Indian Rupee ( INR ) . NRE accounts are held in INR , and whatever amounts ( in INR ) that you choose to withdraw will be converted to US$ at the exchange rate then applicable . Depending on whether it is the Indian bank that is doing the conversion and sending money by wire to your US bank , or you are depositing a cheque in INR in your US bank , you may be charged miscellaneous service fees also . To answer a question that you have not asked as yet , there is no US tax on the transfer of the money . The interest paid on your deposits into the NRE account are not taxable income to you in India , but are taxable income to you in the US , and so I hope that you have been declaring this income each year on Schedule B of your income tax return , and also reporting that you have accounts held abroad , as required by US law . See for example , <URL> and also <URL> .
From the IRS page <URL> : Your tax year investment income must be $ 3,400 or less for the year . ( Emphasis mine . ) It is not the size of your investment that affects the EITC ; it is the amount of investment income that can disqualify you . Also , " investment income " in this case means taxable investment income . Inside your retirement account , any earnings your investments make would not disqualify you for the EITC .
Some additional information for the people who may read this question in the future : The situation is weird , to say the least . I 'm going to assume 2 things : You two ( you and the person who contacted you ) do n't know each other . You have only talked via e-mail , not voice . Now , look at these classic its-a-scam red flags : Random person contacts you . They want to do something with your bank account . They wont give out details about them , but will request/demand all sorts of personal/private details from you . They are in trouble . or its urgent . they want you to act fast ( haste makes waste ) Yet they can still communicate with you via internet/phone . In these conditions , it is not safe to give even the smallest shred of information to such people . I 'd advise you to ignore this person ( best option ) , or to offer to get them in touch with an official ( most scammers will run away at this point ) or threaten to report them ( not recommended , the scammer may take insult and try to " get back at you " ) . Hope this post helps and nobody gets scammed ! EDIT : Thank you for the amazing welcome ! If I 'd have known I 'd get such a huge response , I 'd have written a better answer ;) ( I hope I 'm not breaking any rules by this edit )
I 'm not sure you can get a refund . In the US , companies are n't required by law to offer one . You could contact GoDaddy 's customer service and ask them , but I would guess that they 'll agree with the contents of the legal agreement . Unless there is another part of the agreement that does allow you to get a refund ( there might be , I have n't read it ) , you 're probably out of luck . And yes , this is legitimate . It 's a legal agreement , and by checking the box ( if there was one ) , going through with the purchase , etc. you indicated that you read and agreed to the legal agreement , and therefore accepted that you would n't be offered a refund . GoDaddy is n't responsible if someone purchases something from them without reading the agreement before agreeing to it . Furthermore , the legal agreement is n't the only place where the refund policy is stated . GoDaddy 's page , <URL> says : Your purchase is non-refundable and non-transferable . This is a help page , not something you explicitly agree to ( and therefore not legally binding ) , but as a lesson for the future , always read the description of what you 're purchasing before you purchase it . For general reference : if for some reason you were the victim of fraud , e.g. a company offered a refund in their legal agreement but refused to give it you , and you paid with a credit card , you have more options because you could work with your credit card company to potentially get your money back . In this case , however , the agreement was clear , so this is n't an option .
As I recall , the Scottrade minimum is only $ 500 . ( By the way , Scottrade has a feature to automatically reinvest any dividends which the securities pay ) Once you have an account , you can buy into an index fund . SPY tracks the S&amp;P 500 . It is also currently paying nearly 2 % in dividends . You can shop for other alternatives here : <URL>
You will owe tax on the amount . The tax is not withheld in direct rollover , you 'll get a tax bill next April . You can rollover the non-Roth portion into a regular IRA , and convert to Roth when it is convenient to you ( i.e. : when the tax hit will be minimal ) , or in " installments " - converting only part each year .
Context : My parents overseas ( Japan ) sent me a little over $ 100,000 to cover an expensive tuition payment and moderate living expenses in 2014 . They are not US residents , Green card holders or citizens . They did not remit the tuition payment directly to the school . I am a resident ( for tax ) . This is enough to answer yes . That 's basically the set of requirements for filing : you received > $ 100K from a non-US person and you yourself are a US person . You have to report it , and unless it is taxable income - it is a gift . Taxable income is reported on the form 1040 , gifts are reported on the form 3520 . The fact that in Japan it is not considered a gift is irrelevant . Gift tax laws vary between countries , some ( many ) do n't have gift taxes at all . But the reporting requirement is based on the US law and the US definition of " gift " . As I said above , if it is not a gift per the US law , then it is taxable income ( and then you report all of it regardless of the amount and pay taxes ) . Had they paid directly to the institution , you would n't need to count it as income/gift to you because you did n't actually receive the money ( so no income ) and it went directly to cover your qualified education expenses ( so no gift ) , but this is not the case in your situation . Whether or not this will be reported by the IRS back to Japan - I do n't know , but it was probably already reported to the authorities in Japan by the banks through which the transfers went through . As to whether it will trigger an audit - does n't really matter . It was , most likely , reported to the IRS already by the receiving banks in the US , so not reporting it on your tax return ( either as income or on form 3520 ) may indeed raise some flags .
Here 's the basic equations : the key is to figure out which ' side ' ( pre - or post-tax ) you want compare in and get everything to that . Post-Tax Amount -- > Pre-Tax : If you are going to pay $ 100 after tax , then to compare it as a pre-tax amount , you need a tax rate ... Ballpark your tax rate . Withholding rates are a good place to start , but has others pointed out in the comments , this will just be an estimate . Look at your last paystub , and divide the total withheld for Federal and State taxes by the total you were actually paid that period ( not the check amount ) . For simplicity 's sake , let 's say that 's 20 % . Then in theory you would be willing to pay $ 100 / ( 1 - 0.2 ) = $ 125 . The formula would be ( Post Tax ) / ( 1 - tax rate ) = Post Tax . Pre-Tax Amount -- > Post-Tax Just do a bit of algebra and flip the formula above . Pre-tax Amount * ( 1 - rate ) = Post Tax Amount
Just found <URL> : Then , get an account report using [ Reports ] > [ Account Report ] while you have the search results tab in front of you . This generates a report with the listed transactions and includes the total ( ... )
As Dilip has pointed out in the comment , investing in commodities is to either delivery or Buy . Lets say you entered into buying " X " quantities of Soybeans in November , contract is entered into May . In November , if the price is higher than what you purchased for , you can easily sell this , and make money . If in November , the price is lower than your contract price , you have an option to sell it at loss . If you do n't want to sell it at loss , you are supposed to take the physical shipment [ arrange for your own transport ] and store it in warehouse . Although there are companies that will allow you to lease their warehouse , it very soon becomes more loss making proposition . By doing this you can HOLD onto as long as you want [ or as long as the good survive and do n't rot ] It makes sense for a large wholesaler to enter into Buy contracts as he would be like to get known prices for at least half the stock he needs . Similarly large farmers / co-operative societies need to enter into Sell contracts so that they are safeguarded against price fluctuations .
You wo n't issue invoices to Apple for your app revenue or iAd revenue . Rather , Apple will pay you ( or your corporation , depending on your relationship with them ) as part of an ongoing arrangement . The payment amounts are determined by Apple , not by you , since sales and ad revenue originate with Apple . However , Apple must provide to you a statement of earnings / sales report with sufficient detail . Read your contract with Apple -- you should find it says something to that effect . In practical terms , you should be able to find what you need in iTunes Connect . Look under Payments and Financial Reports , then under the Earnings tab . Download &amp; print whatever reports contain the relevant information about payments received , to support the deposits shown on your bank statements ( which you 'll recognize as revenue . ) As far as the Canada Revenue Agency is concerned , they want you to keep records and supporting documents , which can include invoices , as well as other kinds of documents : Supporting documents include , but are not limited to the following : sales invoices ; purchase receipts , contracts ; guarantees ; bank deposit slips , cancelled cheques ; cash register slips , credit card receipts ; purchase orders ; work orders ; delivery slips ; emails ; and general correspondence in support of the transaction . Refer to <URL> . Disclaimer : I 'm not an accountant , so consider talking to one . You could also <URL> and ask .
end question
start question
Should question 1 on the Student Information Worksheet be interpreted literally ?
This is an interesting question and I ca n't find any definitive statement . See discussion <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Those last two posts are saying that TurboTax directs people to mark " no " for this question even if they have completed four years , as long as they have not yet finished their degree ( the opposite of your situation -- those who take more than 4 years to graduate ) . My gut feeling is that the key is in <URL> ( emphasis added ) : the student had not completed the first four years of postsecondary education ( generally , the freshman through senior years of college ) , as determined by the eligible educational institution That suggests that what matters is not actual revolutions around the sun , but the number of years ' worth of education completed . On that theory , even if you graduated in 3 years , you still completed the first 4 years of education . Your school at some point probably classified you as a " senior " by number of units completed . ( This is also consistent with the TurboTax discussions above . ) To be on the safe side , I would mark " Yes " . If you 're not going to actually try to claim a tax benefit that would require you to mark " no " ( like the American Opportunity Credit ) , it probably does n't matter much how you tick this box . If you are going to attempt to claim such a credit , you should get solid guidance from a tax professional to make sure that 's on the up-and-up .
If you are refering to company 's financial reports and offerings , the required source for companies to disclose the information is the SGX website ( www.sgx.com ) under the Company Disclosure tab . This includes annual statements for the last 5 years , prospectus for any shares/debentures/buy back/etc which is being offered , IPO offers and shareholders meetings . You may also find it useful to check the Research section of the SGX website where some of the public listed companies have voluntarily allowed independent research firms to monitor their company for a couple of years and produce a research report . If you are referring to filings under the Companies Act , these can be found at the Accounting and Regulatory Authority ( ACRA ) website ( www.acra.gov.sg ) and you can also purchase extracts of specific filings under the ACRA iShop . To understand the Singapore public listing system and the steps to public listing , you may find it useful to purchase one of the resource documents available for Singapore law , finance , tax and corporate secretaryship which are sold by CCH ( www.cch.com.sg ) . Specifically for public listing the Singapore Annotated Listing Manual may help . It is common practice for companies here to employ law firms and research firms to do the majority of this research instead of doing it themselves which I one of the reasons this information is online but perhaps not so visible . I hope I have understood your question correctly !
The payment is amortized based on the remaining principal and term of the loan . So in your example , the payment in year 6 is calculated using 3.875 % , $ 310,000 and 25 years .
Fellow student here ! Okay , I do n't have enough rep to ask you a question otherwise I would check which year you started uni ( 2 years left could be on anything from a 3 year course to a 5 year sandwich with integrated masters and a retake year ) and which UK country you were in , as the repayment rules differ slightly depending on whether you were using Student Finance England &amp; Wales/NI/Scotland . However assuming you started after September 2012 and were in England/Wales i.e. <URL> , you would need to complete an <URL> to let the repayment company know how much you 're earning and calculate the equivalent repayment rate depending the earnings threshold for your destination country . It 'd be up to you to let them know if your circumstances change , but there 's no way they 'd stop you from leaving the UK . I think the other plans work in the same way but you can check your particular circumstance on the student loan repayment website <URL> . So in short , nope . You 'll be fine !
My information is 10 years old but back then i am glad i consolidated . First of all the consolidated loan was at the fixed rate while my Stafford loans were floating . In addition the consolidation company offered discounts for timely payments and electronic fund transfer so after a couple of years my rate had 0.75 % discount . So if nothing changed and your loans are floating and you can consolidate at fixed rate it probably makes sense as rate will probably not going to be any lower One thing to look out for is that many consolidated loans are offering 20 year term instead of 10 . So just be disciplined enough to make extra payments monthly so you can still pay it off in 10 years ( or less )
I would say yes : it 's worth building additional retirement savings on top of a <URL> ( plans that pay set annual income ) . Here are a couple of reasons : Do n't put all your eggs in one basket . While <URL> is probably in good shape , things can and do happen to pension plans . While there is a provincial system in place to guarantee some of your pension income ( $ 1000/mo ) if your plan goes bust , your benefits are not 100 % guaranteed . Defined benefit pension plans are designed to provide recurring annual income , like your paycheck when you are employed . You ca n't " take more out " from your defined benefit pension plan when an emergency comes up . Whereas , your RRSP ( and eventually RRIF , in retirement ) are accounts from which you can take out extra in any given year , if necessary . That being said , Canada Revenue Agency ( CRA ) wo n't let you save as much in your RRSP as other people who do n't have pension plans : Normally , individuals in Canada are entitled to save 18 % of their earned income , up to a limit ( $ 21000 in 2009 ) in an RRSP each year . However , to level the playing field , individuals who are in a pension plan get a " Pension Adjustment " ( PA ) number on their T4 which reduces their available RRSP contribution room . Otherwise , they 'd be able to tax-shelter more income for retirement than others . So , I would suggest if you have the RRSP room , consider using it . I 'd also suggest you look at a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , especially if you do n't have much RRSP room due to the pension adjustment . If you 're not sure whether to use an RRSP or a TFSA , <URL> .
If I have an average monthly return on capital of 5 % If you have monthly data , then it might be better not to use your average return at all , but your compounded return based on those months . The average , being an average , will be pulled up in good months , so you may have one good month which brings the whole average up . As an example , if you have three months of data with returns of 5 % , 1 % , and -3 % , your average return is 1 % . But the compounded return is 0.95 % . 0.95 % is a clearer indicator of how well the investments performed . is it more common to use that number for performance or use the annualized value More commonly I have seen the annualized number , because that is how things are typically reported -- you do n't speak of quarterly returns when measuring the total value of an investment . But even then , you would compound it -- it would not be a straight multiple . Continuing the above example , the compounded annual return would be 11.98 % , vs. the average monthly return multiplied by 12 , which yields 12.00 % . In this example , a 0.02 % variance is n't a lot , but if you have large numbers offsetting your average , it can be a material difference .
Here 's the <URL> for individuals ( scroll down to table 3 , Period of Limitations ) Personally , I keep everything for 7 years just to be safe . Seems like most people should be able to get away with just 3 years though .
The future interest is not yet a part of the balance you see , it will be added every month . So next month , less interest will be added to the balance ( compared to not paying that larger amount ) . What you see in the balance is all principal . Every month , the interest gets added , you payment gets deducted ( hopefully it is larger than the interest ) , and you see the new principal . For example , with 6 % interest per year and 20000 $ balance : you will get 6 % / 12 month = 0.5 % / month = 100 $ interest added , you pay the minimum of 120 $ , so the new total is ( that 's why the minimum payment does n't get you anywhere quickly ) .
The are several issues you need to consider : The rate is not guaranteed to be fixed . If you are even one day late the interest rate can jump to 24 % . Minimum Payment . Most credit cards expect you to pay 2 % per month . That may make you monthly payment to the credit card more than you loan payment There is no going back . If you want to switch back to a student loan you ca n't . This will be a cash advance/balance transfer . Understand all the fees associated with the transfer . Can you get a get a credit line big enough ? many people owe 10K to 50K in loans . Tax implications ? Forgiveness programs . Some employers will forgive parts of the loan , or if you work in public service for X years they forgive some of the loan . They will not view the credit card debt the same way .
It depends on the countries involved ... The ATM or Credit cards are expensive options in terms of rates ... The best deals are with the currency exchange counters [ not at airport ] at some busy places ... One needs to find out which is stronger currency , ie is the demand more for foreign currency or local currency ... For example if you have USD and are travelling from US to any Asian countries , it makes sense to exchange the USD in the local Asian countries as the demand for USD is more in these local markets , it would be a bad idea for excahange this in US [ for some currencies the option may also not be available ] If you are trying to exchange between 2 equally strong currencies [ say USD , GBP , EUR , etc ] then it doesnt matter much where you get it changed ... One also needs to consider local practises , for example in UK , most currency houses charge a Conversion fee above the rate making it a very bad deal .
It will depend on the interest rates you can get on the savings vs the mortgage . If the savings rate is higher , then you would be better paying your money there than in the mortgage . Alternatively if the mortgage rate is higher than you can get with a savings account ( or alternative such as peer-to-peer savings ) then you should look to pay off the mortgage . You should also consider if you will be charged any early repayment fees for paying off your mortgage early . It could be that using a combination of paying off the mortgage up to the early repayment limit , with any surplus going to savings accounts would be a better option .
The best way to estimate taxes is <URL> by Intuit . Although it files with TurboTax , which does not support F1 tax filing , you may want to enter your details just to see how much you could expect as a return -- just do n't file your taxes with it .
One drawback worth keeping in mind when you are doing the math to figure out if this is worth it or not is that the interest on a student loan is tax deductible whereas the interest on the loan from your credit union is probably not .
In the short run , its better you get a credit card from India . Generally most cards issued in India can be used internationally . Use this for initial few months in the US till you get a credit card in US .
No , you can not . See <URL> : Generally , you can claim the deduction if all of the following requirements are met . Your filing status is any filing status except married filing separately . No one else is claiming an exemption for you on his or her tax return . You are legally obligated to pay interest on a qualified student loan . You paid interest on a qualified student loan . You 're not legally obligated to pay the interest , your mother is . Your mother can not claim it because she was not the one who paid the interest .
This is an interesting question and I ca n't find any definitive statement . See discussion <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Those last two posts are saying that TurboTax directs people to mark " no " for this question even if they have completed four years , as long as they have not yet finished their degree ( the opposite of your situation -- those who take more than 4 years to graduate ) . My gut feeling is that the key is in <URL> ( emphasis added ) : the student had not completed the first four years of postsecondary education ( generally , the freshman through senior years of college ) , as determined by the eligible educational institution That suggests that what matters is not actual revolutions around the sun , but the number of years ' worth of education completed . On that theory , even if you graduated in 3 years , you still completed the first 4 years of education . Your school at some point probably classified you as a " senior " by number of units completed . ( This is also consistent with the TurboTax discussions above . ) To be on the safe side , I would mark " Yes " . If you 're not going to actually try to claim a tax benefit that would require you to mark " no " ( like the American Opportunity Credit ) , it probably does n't matter much how you tick this box . If you are going to attempt to claim such a credit , you should get solid guidance from a tax professional to make sure that 's on the up-and-up .
If you are comfortable with the risk etc , then the main thing to worry about is diversity . For some folks , picking stocks is beyond them , or they have no interest in it . But if it 's working for you , and you want to keep doing it , more power to you . If you are comfortable with the risk , you could just as well have ALL your equity position in individual stocks . I would offer only two pieces of advice in that respect . 1 ) no more than 4 % of your total in any one stock . That 's a good way to force diversity ( provided the stocks are not clustered in a very few sectors like say ' financials ' ) , and make yourself take some of the ' winnings off the table ' if a stock has done well for you . 2 ) Pay Strong attention to Taxes ! You ca n't predict most things , but you CAN predict what you 'll have to pay in taxes , it 's one of the few known quantities . Be smart and trade so you pay as little in taxes as possible 2A ) If you live someplace where taxes on Long term gains are lower than short term ( like the USA ) then try really really hard to hold ' winners ' till they are long term . Even if the price falls a little , you might be up in the net compared to paying out an extra 10 % or more in taxes on your gains . Obviously there 's a balancing act there between when you feel something is ' done ' and the time till it 's long term . . but if you 've held something for 11 months , or 11 months and 2 weeks , odds are you 'd be better off to hold till the one year point and then sell it . 2B ) Capture Losses when you have them by selling and buying a similar stock for a month or something . ( beware the wash sale rule ) to use to offset gains .
It depends if you are with a direct market access provider or a market maker . With direct market access you are basically trading based on the liquidity of the under security . With a market maker the provider will try to match the liquidity of the underlying in most cases , but may differ from one provider to another .
No . The employer match is not included for several reasons . The vesting schedule is different for each company , so that they would have to tell the IRS that the match was X$ 's this year for this employee , but the amount that was vested is Y . The next year some of the first years money would have to be declared by the company as new covered by vesting . The bigger issue is that no matter if the employee contribution is pre-tax , post-tax or Roth , the match has not been taxed and will be taxed when the money is withdrawn either during retirement or early . Check that the amount stated on the W-2 matches what was on your last pay stub for the year in question .
end question
start question
File LLC as S Corp ?
That is correct , the SS cap is on total wages , not each wage . When you create an LLC ( as a disregarded entity ) , you do n't pay yourself with a W2 , all the LLC earnings are your earnings . So instead of Social Security deductions , you will be paying <URL> ( which totals to the same amount as you would be paying with W2 to yourself , just under different name ) . Note that S-Corp is a pass-through entity for Federal taxes , so there 's not much difference from LLC being taxed as LLC ( other than extra complexity , for S-Corp you need to file additional forms while LLC is completely invisible on your Federal taxes ) . It may be different on a state level , but probably not much as well . S-Corp existed when there were no LLC 's , but now I do n't see a reason to ever deal with S-Coprs unless you 're dealing with shareholders and shares . Something to take into the account : if you 're paying yourself with W2 - you 'll have to deduct the FICA taxes on all your earnings , and then get credit on your 1040 . With LLC - you wo n't have to pay and wait for refunds .
SMLLC is disregarded in the US for tax purposes , so whether you operate under LLC or as a self proprietor ( i.e. : without any legal entity other that your own person ) - it does n't matter . Some States have additional requirements for LLC - check PA tax laws on that . In CA for example , LLC on its own costs $ 800/year just to exist . Your $ 1K will be applied towards your total income whether you 're operating as LLC or not and will be taxed by the US Government in exactly the same fashion ( unless you elect to treat your LLC as an S-Corp , but for $ 1k it is definitely not advised ) .
Since from the question it seems that you 're talking about the US taxation , I 'll assume that . You can definitely continue filing jointly . Being members of a partnership has no bearing on how you file your own tax return . The partnership will distribute K-1 to each of you separately , but you 'll report both of them on the same return .
From <URL> - What are the eligibility requirements for a business to establish a SEP-IRA ? Almost any type of business is eligible to establish a SEP-IRA , from self-employed individuals to multi-person corporations ( including sole proprietors , partnerships , S and C corporations , and limited liability companies [ LLCs ] ) , tax-exempt organizations , and government agencies . What are the contribution limits ? You may contribute up to 25 % of compensation ( 20 % if you 're self-employed3 ) or $ 49,000 for 2011 and $ 50,000 for 2012 , whichever is less . If we set the PC aside , you and the son have an LLC renting office space , this addresses the ability of the LLC to offer the retirement account .
You can read <URL> . They 're quite detailed . Specifically to your question : If you include interest or penalties ( other than the estimated tax penalty ) with your payment , identify and enter the amount in the bottom margin of Form 1040 , page 2 . Do not include interest or penalties ( other than the estimated tax penalty ) in the amount you owe on line 78 . However , you can leave it empty and let the IRS calculate it for you and send you the bill . In some cases - they wo n't .
You do n't need to notify the IRS of new members , the IRS does n't care ( at this stage ) . What you do need , if you have a EIN for a single-member LLC , is <URL> since your LLC is now a partnership ( a different entity , from IRS perspective ) . From now on , you 'll need to file form 1065 with the IRS in case of business related income , on which you will declare the membership distribution interests on Schedules K-1 for each member .
No , it will show on the LLC tax return ( <URL> ) , in the capital accounts ( schedules <URL> , L and M-2 ) , attributed to your partner .
The S&amp;P 500 index is maintained by S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices , a division of McGraw Hill Financial . Changes to the index are made periodically , as needed . For Facebook , you 'll find it mentioned in this <URL> . Quote : New York , NY , December 11 , 2013 -- S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices will make the following changes to the S&amp;P 100 , S&amp;P 500 , MidCap 400 and S&amp;P SmallCap 600 indices after the close of trading on Friday , December 20 : Facebook Inc. ( NASD : FB ) will replace The Williams Companies Inc. ( NYSE : WMB ) in the S&amp;P 100 , and Facebook will replace Teradyne Inc. . ( NYSE : TER ) in the S&amp;P 500 [ ... ] You can find out more about the S&amp;P 500 index eligibility criteria from the <URL> . See pages 5 and 6 : Eligibility Criteria Additions - S&amp;P 500 , S&amp;P MidCap 400 and S&amp;P SmallCap 600 Market Capitalization . Market Capitalization - [ ... ] Liquidity - [ ... ] Domicile - [ ... ] Public Float - [ ... ] Sector Classification - [ ... ] Financial Viability - Usually measured as four consecutive quarters of positive as reported earnings . [ ... ] Treatment of IPOs - Initial public offerings should be seasoned for 6 to 12 months before being considered for addition to an index . Eligible Securities - [ ... ] [ ... ] Timing of Changes Changes to the U.S. indices other than the TMIX are made as needed , with no annual or semi-annual reconstitution . [ ... ] LabCorp may have a smaller market cap than Facebook , but Facebook did n't meet all of the eligibility criteria -- for instance , see the above note about " Treatment of IPOs " -- until recently . Note also that " Initial public offerings should be seasoned for 6 to 12 months " implies somebody at S&amp;P makes a decision as to the exact when . As such , I would say , no , there is no " simple rule or formula " , just the methodology above as applied by the decision-makers at S&amp;P .
I would suggest you pay quarterly . Or , if you prefer , do the extra withholding . Do n't wait until the end of the year . My experience is that of having a day job with freelance work on the side . I 've spent a few years just freelancing , and I paid quarterly as requested to avoid the penalties . Now that I have a good day job again , my freelancing is just a small part of my income , and so I end up with a net return and no longer have to pay quarterly . You should n't wait until the end of the year to pay . This is assuming your wife is bringing in a decent income . The only scenario where you would want to wait is if her income is only a small amount ( such as my wife 's plans for an Etsy store ) . To the IRS , it does n't really make a difference whether you withhold extra or pay quarterly . Of those two choices , my preference is to pay quarterly - it 's easy to set up calendar reminders on the quarterly payment dates , which are always the same . I did the same as bstpierre when estimating my payments : just take last year 's tax ( for the business ) and divide by 4 ( adjusting for any obvious situational differences ) . That 's usually close enough . Paying quarterly instead of via withholding means you get to hold on to your money ( on average ) for 6 weeks longer . Granted , that does n't mean much with today 's interest rates , but it 's something . You may prefer the simpler accounting for withholding , though - you can " set and forget " .
This is going to vary tremendously from country to country ( and even from state to state , in some cases ) . In general , though : Sole proprietorship : Easy to form : requires little , or limited , paperwork and you 'll register directly as a taxpayer ; Difficult to sell : it is much harder to sell a sole proprietorship ( or manage successsion planning , inheritence , that sort of thing ) - you end up selling your assets but can not sell the legal structure ( since contracts and legal responsibilities will be in the owner 's name ) ; Taxable deductions limited : because your salary and the business ' profits are the same , you 'll find it difficult to keep savings in reserve for capital growth as you 'll be paying taxes at a higher rate . LLC : Administrative overhead : depending on local laws , even a small company may be required to submit to a statutory annual audit or financial review , you 'll also find this obligates you to keeping financial records ( this is not , necessarily , a bad thing ) ; Separation of interests : it 's always a good idea to have a separate bank account and structure for a business , an LLC imposes this on the owner - and , yes , this does mean that the LLC can own both fixed and moveable property ( like a car ) ; Financial planning : an LLC allows you to pay yourself a proper salary as well as to save additional profits for capital growth ; this should result in a lower overall cost of taxation as you can also pay yourself dividends from the unallocated profits ; Easy succession planning : selling an LLC is as simple as setting a price and changing the share-ownership ; the new owner buys existing contractual and legal rights by virtue of owning the company . There are a lot of permutations depending on local law . One thing that is n't actually much of an advantage is the " limited liability " component of the LLC . Simply put : for a really small company the majority shareholders are usually going to be " forced " to stand surety for the company in their personal capacity . Limited liability only becomes available once the company has quite a lot of cash/assets ( or the illusion of a lot of cash/assets ) . Update - noticed two further questions that appear very similar : <URL> <URL> Should all of these be merged ?
It 's just shorthand for the interest rate that the bonds pay . " 5s " is short for " fives " , which is short for " bonds paying a five percent coupon rate " ; " 7s " is short for " sevens " , which is short for " bonds paying a seven percent coupon rate " . This terminology is still in use ; when a company has more than one series of bonds outstanding , one way of distinguishing them is to refer to them as " 5s " for the five percenters and " 7s " for the seven percenters .
Did it show just your address , or was your name on it as well ? You did n't share how long you 've lived at the address either , so it makes me wonder whether a former tenant is the one who filed that paperwork . It 's also possible that someone used your address when making a filing . Whether that was deliberate or accidental is hard to discern , as is their intent if it was intentional . It could be accidental -- someone picked " CA " for California when they meant to pick " CO " for Colorado or " CT " for Connecticut ... These things do happen . It ca n't make you feel any better about the situation though . You should be able to go online to the California Secretary of State 's website ( <URL> ) and look up everything filed by the LLC with the state . That will show who the founders were and everything else that is a matter of public record on the LLC . At the very least , you can obtain the registered agent 's name and address for the LLC , which you can then use to contact them and ask why your address is listed as the LLC 's business address . Once you have that info , you can then contact the Secretary of State and tell them it is n't you so they can do whatever is necessary to correct this . This does n't sound like a difficult matter to clear up , but it 's important to do your homework first and gather as much information as you can before you call the state . Answering " I do n't know " wo n't get you very far with them compared to having the best answers you can about where the mistake started . I hope this helps . Good luck !
I think the relevant document is <URL> , in the section " Distributions from an HSA " several subheadings down : Additional Tax There is an additional 10 % tax on the part of your distributions not used for qualified medical expenses . which is followed by : Exceptions . There is no additional tax on distributions made after the date you are disabled , reach age 65 , or die . So your understanding is mostly correct -- the age threshold is 65 , not 59.5 . Under current rules . The rules could change between now and whenever you reach 65 . With that said , I 'm mostly just leaving money in my HSA -- that account has the highest rate of return of any ( insured ) account I have , and like you say it is basically another way to get a deduction and save for later . I could n't find any info on rolling over to a Roth or an IRA , except that you ca n't do it . ( Though none of the sources I found mention a reference to IRS docs . ) Edit : I should also mention that , after 65 , distributions from the HSA to pay insurance premiums are qualified ( tax free ) . See the link to Pub 969 above . So if you are careful about how you spend the HSA money in retirement , it can be used tax free . ( I.e. spend out of the HSA to cover medical expenses , then draw down your IRAs for non-qualified spending . )
Well , the largest , in terms of both volume and unfortunately , contact size is the <URL> . It 's based on one contract which is $ 250 times the current S&amp;P index , or just over $ 300K current value . This does not make for too cheap an option cost , but it 's definitely the largest as you requested . For the average Joe , or Ray , in this case , the most popular ETFs are SPY and DIA for the S&amp;P and Dow Jones , respectively . These are reasonably sized so their options are within range of your goal . <URL> . Then flip over to the <URL> . ( SPY reflects 1/10 the S&amp;P so an option contract , on 100 SPY shares is effectively on 10 times the S&amp;P index or 1/25 the futures option pricing . )
It does not matter if you have filed your ITR . It will not have impact of your credit score . If otherwise , people who has TDS , their score should be high . But its not the case . The following will only impact your score . How much you owe to banks ? How long you are dealing with credits ? How frequent you are in need of credit ? And primarily , how many times you have missed your payment ?
You report it when the expense was incurred/accrued . Which is , in your case , 2014 . There 's no such thing as " accounts payable " on tax forms , it is an account on balance sheet , but most likely it is irrelevant for you since your LLC is probably cash-based . The reimbursement is a red-herring , what matters is when you paid the money .
Like you said , it 's important to keep your personal assets and company assets completely separate to maintain the liability protection of the LLC . I 'd recommend getting the business bank account right from the beginning . My wife formed an LLC last year ( also as a pass-through sole proprietorship for tax purposes ) , and we were able to get a small business checking account from Savings Institute and Trust that has no fees ( at least for the relatively low quantity of transactions we 'll be doing ) . We wrote it a personal check for startup capital , and since then , the LLC has paid all of its own bills out of its checking account ( with associated debit card ) . Getting the account opened took less than an hour of sitting at the bank . Without knowing exactly where you are in Kentucky , I note that Googling " kentucky small business checking " and visiting a few banks ' web sites provided several promising options for no-fee business checking .
The short answer , per the IRS , is <URL> . Whether the IRS will come after you , whether you should renounce your US citizenship or what the Republicans will do , I ca n't answer . If you 're really concerned with the question of legality , I 'd recommend to talk to an international tax lawyer . ( As an aside , if you do decide to file you can simply request an ITIN number , no need for SSN and passport - follow the link from the above linked article )
<URL> , you do n't have to file any taxes that are specific to a LLC , only your personal taxes . LLC on Federal level is disregarded , instead you submit all your business income/expenses on Schedule C. On the state level - it seems to be the same ( only individual tax return ) . Consult your state certified tax specialist . That is not the case in other states , for example in California LLC has to file its own tax return and pay its own taxes , in additional to the individual taxes .
Unless they 're the actual employers , the I-9 is none of their business . Your employer must verify your eligibility for employment on the first day of your employment , i.e. : when you find a job you 'll have to fill I-9 anyway . The only reason I can think for them to do it is to verify that you 're eligible for employment before they waste any time on searching for a job for you . I 'm not sure if they 're legally allowed to ask for your status , so maybe that 's their way of working around that . I do n't think they can require you to fill I-9 , and in fact I 'm not sure if its even legal for them to obtain that information without actually being your employers . IMHO , that is , consult with an attorney if you want a proper legal advice .
end question
start question
What exactly are the SEIS tax benefits and how can I use them ?
I think this is explained fairly clearly by the <URL> on the topic . In particular , yes there is an immediate tax benefit in the year that you make the investment , in that it reduces your income tax bill by 50 % of your investment up to # 100,000 ( i.e. a maximum reduction of # 50,000 ) . This reduction is capped at the actual income tax paid , so you ca n't directly get money back if the theoretical relief would exceed that amount . You can also " carry back " some of an investment one tax year so you could potentially get a refund on your 2012-2013 tax bill by investing now ( before April 5th 2014 when 2013-2014 ends ) - similarly you could divide up an investment between the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 tax years if you invest after April 6th 2014 . Note that you need to hold onto the shares for at least three years or the relief is withdrawn ( which presumably means HMRC will demand the tax be repaid again ) . You will also be exempt from capital gains tax on the shares if you hold them for the three years . Finally there are some provisions for getting relief from capital gains tax on assets you already hold and sell if you then reinvest the money in SEIS shares .
Assets held within an ISA or New ISA <URL> , so you wo n't have to pay either income tax or capital gains tax .
You can make estimated tax payments on Form 1040-ES . Most people who make such payments need to do it quarterly because the typical reasons for making estimated payments is something like self-employment income that a person will get throughout the year . If you have a one-time event like a single , large sale of stock , however , there 's nothing wrong with doing it just one quarter out of the year . When it comes time to file your taxes , part of the calculate is whether you were timely quarter-by-quarter not just for the entire year , so if you do have a big " one-time " event mid-year , do n't wait until the end of the year to file an estimated payment . Of course , if the event is at the end of the year , then you can make it a 4th quarter estimated payment .
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
Is there something else I need to be thinking about here ? I 'm assuming that I will not have to pay capital gains tax on the profit from the sale because I 'm putting it into another investment property . Is this correct ? No . You 're talking about <URL> . It would be correct if you would be buying a new , similar , investment property ( you 'd be deferring the tax , not " not paying " it ) . But in this case that is not what you 're doing . You 'll have to pay the capital gains tax on the profit . For the 1031 exchange the new property has to be acquired with relation to the disposition of the old property , and within the certain period of time ( 180 days , if I remember correctly ) . Had it been your primary residence for more than 2 years in the last 5 , you might have been able to use <URL> , in which case you would not be paying tax on the excluded gains ( which is way better than deferring ... ) . Since you updated the question saying you moved out in 2007 , its not relevant for you anymore . Adding to @mhoran_psprep 's point : since it has been a rental for the last several years , you will also have a " depreciation recapture " - a situation where the IRS will tax a deduction you made ( or could have made ) for depreciation of your property . Since you can not depreciate your primary residence - the recapture can not be excluded as part of the primary residence exclusion , so on this part you will have to pay taxes . Note that this is not capital gain , and the recapture rates are different ( 25 % if I remember correctly ) . You should discuss it with your tax adviser - a EA or a CPA licensed in your state .
Gold is classified as a collectible so the gain rates are as follows : Held less than one year . The capital gain is taxed at ordinary income tax rate , ( up to 35 % ) . See <URL> . Held more than one year . The capital gain is also taxed at ordinary income rate , but with a cap of 28 % . In other words , if your marginal tax rate is 15 % , the gain is taxed at 15 % , not 28 % . If you 're rich and your marginal tax rate is 35 % , then you tax the gain at 28 % . See <URL> . So you 'd report a gain of $ 100 or $ 1,000 , depending on which coin you sold .
It will impact your credit score , but typically very minor - paying one bill late is much worse . It reduces your average credit card age , which is a minor contributor to credit score . The disadvantages are : you are giving them your address and name , and implicit permission to spam you with mail , email , etc. for the next years ; you can only do it once ( it 's typically in the fine print - new customers only ) it 's a lot of form filling and hassle Yes , you make 50 $ , and it 's not a bad hourly rate . But except if you really need that money , it 's not worth the effort .
<URL> says you have to use fair market value . You can not simply use a depreciated value . You should attempt to determine what people normally pay for comparable items , and be prepared to defend your determination with evidence in the event of an audit .
As far as trading is concerned , these forward curves are the price at which you can speculate on the future value of the commodity . Basically , if you want to speculate on gold , you can either buy the physical and store it somewhere ( which may have significant costs ) or you can buy futures ( ETFs typically hold futures or hold physical and store it for you ) . If you buy futures , you will have to roll your position every month , meaning you sell the current month 's futures and buy the next month 's . However , these may not be trading at the same price , so each time you roll your position , you face a risk . If you know you want to hold gold for exactly 1 year , then you can buy a 1-year future , which in this case according to your graph will cost you about $ 10 more than buying the front month . The forward curve ( or sometimes called the futures term structure ) represents the prices at which gold can be bought or sold at various points in the future .
I 'm assuming that you 're in the US . In that case , the answer is that it depends on how your company set up its reimbursement plan . The IRS recognizes " accountable " and " nonaccountable " plans . Accountable plans have to meet certain requirements . Anything else is nonaccountable . If you are reimbursed according to an accountable plan , this is not income and should not be reported to the IRS at all . If you are reimbursed under a nonaccountable plan , then this is income but you might be able to get a deduction on your tax return if you itemize . Most established companies have accountable plans for normal business expenses . More detail from IRS : <URL>
The heart of the question is : why ca n't Bill just pay whatever he owes based on his income in that quarter ? If Q2 is gang busters , he 'll increase his tax payment . Then if Q3 is surprisingly slow , he 'll pay less than he paid in Q2 . I think what 's most interesting about this question is that the other answers are geared towards how a taxpayer is supposed to estimate taxes . But that 's not my objective -- nor is it Bill 's objective . My [ his ] real objective is : Do n't substantially overpay taxes . Do n't get reamed on underpayment penalties . In other words , the answer to this question either needs to deal with not overpaying , or it needs to deal with mitigating the underpayment penalty . AFAICT , there are 2 solutions : Solution 1 Figure your estimated taxes based on last year 's tax . You wo n't owe a penalty if your withholding + estimated tax payments in each quarter are 25 % or more of your previous year 's tax liability . Here 's the section that I am basing this on : <URL> Minimum required each period . You will owe a penalty for any 2011 payment period for which your estimated tax payment plus your withholding for the period and overpayments for previous periods was less than the smaller of : 22.5 % of your 2011 tax , or 25 % of your 2010 tax . ( Your 2010 tax return must cover a 12-month period . ) Solution 2 Use the " Annualized Income Installment Method " . This is not a method for calculating estimated taxes , per se . It 's actually a method for reducing or eliminating your underpayment penalty . It 's also intended to assist tax payers with unpredictable incomes . If you did not receive your income evenly throughout the year ( for example , your income from a shop you operated at a marina was much larger in the summer than it was during the rest of the year ) , you may be able to lower or eliminate your penalty by figuring your underpayment using the annualized income installment method . Emphasis added . In order to take advantage of this , you 'll need to send in a Schedule AI at the end of the year along with a Form 2210 . The downside to this is that you 're basically racking up underpayment penalties throughout the year , then at the end of the year you 're asking the IRS to rescind your penalty . The other risk is that you still pay estimated taxes on your Q2 - Q4 earnings in Q1 , you just pay much less than 25 % . So if you have a windfall later in the year , I think you could get burned on your Q1 underpayment .
It costs money for a mutual fund to accept your money . It does n't cost as much as it used to , but historically there has been , at a minimum , a modicum of record-keeping associated with it . As such , they will typically have a minimum amount of money they want you to add at a time . They do n't want to process 100 transfers of a nickel each ; that would be silly . So if you have a mutual fund with a " minimum initial investment " of $ 10,000 and a " minimum subsequent investment " of $ 100 , then that means that you can put in $ 10k to open it , and then deposit dollars in lots of 100 or more whenever you feel like it .
Dividends are normally paid in cash , so do n't generally affect your portfolio aside from a slight increase to ' cash ' . You get a check for them , or your broker would deposit the funds into a money-market account for you . There is sometimes an option to re-invest dividends , See Westyfresh 's answer regarding Dividend Re-Investment Plans . As Tom Au described , the dividends are set by the board of directors and announced . Also as he indicated just before the ' record ' date , a stock which pays dividends is worth slightly more ( reflecting the value of the dividend that will be paid to anyone holding the stock on the record date ) and goes down by the dividend amount immediately after that date ( since you 'd now have to hold the stock till the next record date to get a dividend ) In general unless there 's a big change in the landscape ( such as in late 2008 ) most companies pay out about the same dividend each time , and changes to this are sometimes seen by some as ' indicators ' of company health and such news can result in movement in the stock price . When you look at a basic quote on a ticker symbol there is usually a line for Div/yeild which gives the amount of dividend paid per share , and the relative yeild ( as a percentage of the stock price ) . If a company has been paying dividends , this field will have values in it , if a company does not pay a dividend it will be blank or say NA ( depending on where you get the quote ) . This is the easiest way to see if a company pays a dividend or not . for example if you look at this quote for Google , you can see it pays no dividend Now , in terms of telling when and how much of a dividend has been paid , most financial sites have the option when viewing a stock chart to show the dividend payments . If you expand the chart to show at least a year , you can see when and how much was paid in terms of dividends . For example you can see from this chart that MSFT pays dividends once a quarter , and used to pay out 13 cents , but recently changed to 16 cents . if you were to float your mouse over one of those icons it would also give the date the dividend was paid .
According to the privacy policies of at least some of the banks and financial institutions , they reserve the right to keep your information even after you have ceased all relationship with them . You can forbid them from sharing it , but not from keeping it . Unfortunately , there 's no law to protect you in such case .
Securities clearing and settlement is a complex topic - you can start by browsing <URL> , and ( given sufficient quantities of masochism and strong coffee ) progress to <URL> . You 're correct - modern trade settlement systems are electronic and heavily streamlined . However , you 're never going to see people hand over assets until they 're sure that payment has cleared - given current payment systems , that means the fastest settlement time is going to be the next business day ( so-called T +1 settlement ) , which is what 's seen for heavily standardized instruments like standard options and government debt securities . Stocks present bigger obstacles . First , the seller has to locate the asset being sold &amp; make sure they have clear title to it ... which is tougher than it might seem , given the layers of abstraction/virtualization involved in the chain of ownership &amp; custody , complicated in particular by " rehypothecation " involved in stock borrowing/lending for short sales ... especially since stock borrow/lending record-keeping tends to be somewhat slipshod ( cf. periodic uproar about " naked shorting " and " failure to deliver " ) . Second , the seller has to determine what exactly it is that they have sold ... which , again , can be tougher than it might seem . You see , stocks are subject to all kinds of corporate actions ( e.g. cash distributions , spin-offs , splits , liquidations , delistings ... ) A particular topic of keen interest is who exactly is entitled to large cash distributions - the buyer or the seller ? Depending on the cutoff date ( the " ex-dividend date " ) , the seller may need to deliver to the buyer just the shares of stock , or the shares plus a big chunk of cash - a significant difference in settlement . Determining the precise ex-dividend date ( and so what exactly are the assets to be settled ) can sometimes be very difficult ... it 's usually T-2 , except in the case of large distributions , which are usually T +1 , unless the regulatory authority has neglected to declare an ex-dividend date , in which case it defaults to standard DTC payment policy ( i.e. T-2 ) ... I 've been involved in a few situations where the brokers involved were clueless , and full settlement of " due bills " for cash distributions to the buyer took several months of hard arguing . So yeah , the brokers want a little time to get their records in order and settle the trade correctly .
Since from the question it seems that you 're talking about the US taxation , I 'll assume that . You can definitely continue filing jointly . Being members of a partnership has no bearing on how you file your own tax return . The partnership will distribute K-1 to each of you separately , but you 'll report both of them on the same return .
Brazil is a <URL> . They use a <URL> , pronounced with a " V " , to open &amp; close the market and provide a venue to clear large orders as opposed to a continual double-sided auction that the rest of the world uses . The theory is that the value thus quantity of all bids shall equal all asks to discover an equilibrium price as opposed to the traditional <URL> theory that most in the developed and now rest of the world are familiar with . Therefore , to open &amp; close the market in Brazil or take part in large trades , traders initially bet blind or according to an initial price on the bids and asks then the exchange adjusts this price downward if an excess of supply or upward if an excess of demand , and the bids and asks are resubmitted with the process repeated until the quantity demanded equals the quantity supplied where the auction finally clears , more or less matching all orders . During trading hours , continual double-sided auctions for small orders also take place . Walrasian auctions are a hangover from the <URL> days of Latin America , and ironically , Walrasian supply &amp; demand curves were subscribed to by <URL> thus " socialists " and " communists " of the time even though Walras 's theories mainly constructed <URL> thought which is a dominant theory in " capitalist " economics even though it was not intended to be applied to Marshallian curves . " Capitalists " tend to subscribe to the more well known Marshallian supply &amp; demand curves theory as the determination of equilibrium . The reason why Walrasian curves were chosen is because it is believed that they could help counteract the effects of Dependency , that the " artificially low " price resulting from Marshallian curves could be risen to " fair " prices . Neither theory has been extensively shown to be superior ; furthermore , they seem to produce the same equilibrium price with less variance for the Walrasians and more continuity for the Marshallians .
As some of the comments indicated , you could ask your employer to give you a book buying budget , but if not ... As a developer there are books that should sit on your shelf , one those being Design Patterns . A quick search of Amazon or Half.com show these books retail new for about $ 40 , or you can buy used for $ 20 or less . Buy used and realize your savings that way . Another way to realize tax savings is to setup a company and do some side work . Any money you earn could be used to offset the cost of books or other resources and part or all of some of your expenses can be written off . The ability to write off work related expenses has basically disappeared , unless you have a lot of them and you itemize your taxes .
If you have held the stocks longer than a year , then there is no tax apart from the STT that is already deducted when you sell the shares . If you have held the stock for less than a year , you would have to pay short term capital gains at the rate of 15 % on the profit . Edit : If you buy different shares from the total amount or profits , it makes no difference to taxes .
<URL> : Include taxes ( state , local , or foreign ) paid on real estate you own that was not used for business . ... If you want to make a business out of her property and be her agent in the management , you might be able to work with an accountant on this , but it wo n't be a valid personal deduction .
end question
start question
How do euro hedged index funds work ?
Summary When you invest in an S&amp;P 500 index fund that is priced in USD , the only major risk you bear is the risk associated with the equity that comprises the index , since both the equities and the index fund are priced in USD . The fund in your question , however , is priced in EUR . For a fund like this to match the performance of the S&amp;P 500 , which is priced in USD , as closely as possible , it needs to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . If the fund simply converted EUR to USD then invested in an S&amp;P 500 index fund priced in USD , the EUR-priced fund may fail to match the USD-priced fund because of exchange rate fluctuations . Why hedging is important Here is a simple example demonstrating why hedging is necessary . I assumed the current value of the USD-priced S&amp;P 500 index fund is 1,600 USD/share . The exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR . If you purchase one share of this index using EUR , you would pay 1230.77 EUR/share : If the S&amp;P 500 increases 10 % to 1760 USD/share and the exchange rate remains unchanged , the value of the your investment in the EUR fund also increases by 10 % ( both sides of the equation are multiplied by 1.1 ) : However , the currency risk comes into play when the EUR/USD exchange rate changes . Take the 10 % increase in the price of the USD index occurring in tandem with an appreciation of the EUR to 1.4 USD/EUR : Although the USD-priced index gained 10 % , the appreciation of the EUR means that the EUR value of your investment is almost unchanged from the first equation . For investments priced in EUR that invest in securities priced in USD , the presence of this additional currency risk mandates the use of a hedge if the indexes are going to track . The fund you linked to uses <URL> , which I discuss in detail below , to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . Since these derivatives are n't free , the cost of the hedge is included in the expenses of the fund and may result in differences between the S&amp;P 500 Index and the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index . Also , it 's important to realize that any time you invest in securities that are priced in a different currency than your own , you take on currency risk whether or not the investments aim to track indexes . This holds true even for securities that trade on an exchange in your local currency , like ADR 's or GDR 's . I wrote an <URL> that goes through a simple example in a similar fashion to the one above in that context , so you can read that for more information on currency risk in that context . Process of hedging There are several ways to investors , be they institutional or individual , can hedge against currency risk . <URL> offers an ETF that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index and uses a over-the-counter currency swap contract called a <URL> to hedge against the associated currency risk . In these contracts , two parties agree to swap some amount of one currency for another amount of another currency , at some time in the future . This allows both parties to effectively lock in an exchange rate for a given time period ( a month in the case of the iShares ETF ) and therefore protect themselves against exchange rate fluctuations in that period . There are other forms of <URL> , <URL> , etc. that could be used to hedge against currency risk . In general , two parties agree to swap one quantity , like a EUR cash flow , payments of a fixed interest rate , etc. for another quantity , like a USD cash flow , payments based on a floating interest rate , etc. . In many cases these are over-the-counter transactions , there is n't necessarily a standardized definition . For example , if the European manager of a fund that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index is holding euros and wants to lock in an effective exchange rate of 1.4 USD/EUR ( above the current exchange rate ) , he may find another party that is holding USD and wants to lock in the respective exchange rate of 0.71 EUR/USD . The other party could be an American fund manager that manages a USD-price fund that tracks the FTSE . By swapping USD and EUR , both parties can , at a price , lock in their desired exchange rates . Final note I want to clear up something else in your question too . It 's not correct that the " S&amp;P 500 is completely unrelated to the Euro . " Far from it . There are many cases in which the EUR/USD exchange rate and the level of the S&amp;P 500 index could be related . For example : Troublesome economic news in Europe could cause the euro to depreciate against the dollar as European investors flee to safety , e.g. invest in Treasury bills . However , this economic news could also cause US investors to feel that the global economy wo n't recover as soon as hoped , which could affect the S&amp;P 500 . If the euro appreciated against the dollar , for whatever reason , this could increase profits for US businesses that earn part of their profits in Europe . If a US company earns 1 million EUR and the exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR , the company earns 1.3 million
A re-financing , or re-fi , is when a debtor takes out a new loan for the express purpose of paying off an old one . This can be done for several reasons ; usually the primary reason is that the terms of the new loan will result in a lower monthly payment . Debt consolidation ( taking out one big loan at a relatively low interest rate to pay off the smaller , higher-interest loans that rack up , like credit card debt , medical bills , etc ) is a form of refinancing , but you most commonly hear the term when referring to refinancing a home mortgage , as in your example . To answer your questions , most of the money comes from a new bank . That bank understands up front that this is a re-fi and not " new debt " ; the homeowner is n't asking for any additional money , but instead the money they get will pay off outstanding debt . Therefore , the net amount of outstanding debt remains roughly equal . Even then , a re-fi can be difficult for a homeowner to get ( at least on terms he 'd be willing to take ) . First off , if the homeowner owes more than the home 's worth , a re-fi may not cover the full principal of the existing loan . The bank may reject the homeowner outright as not creditworthy ( a new house is a HUGE ding on your credit score , trust me ) , or the market and the homeowner 's credit may prevent the bank offering loan terms that are worth it to the homeowner . The homeowner must often pony up cash up front for the closing costs of this new mortgage , which is money the homeowner hopes to recoup in reduced interest ; however , the homeowner may not recover all the closing costs for many years , or ever . To answer the question of why a bank would do this , there are several reasons : The bank offering the re-fi is usually not the bank getting payments for the current mortgage . This new bank wants to take your business away from your current bank , and receive the substantial amount of interest involved over the remaining life of the loan . If you 've ever seen a mortgage summary statement , the interest paid over the life of a 30-year loan can easily equal the principal , and often it 's more like twice or three times the original amount borrowed . That 's attractive to rival banks . It 's in your current bank 's best interest to try to keep your business if they know you are shopping for a re-fi , even if that means offering you better terms on your existing loan . Often , the bank is itself " on the hook " to its own investors for the money they lent you , and if you pay off early without any penalty , they no longer have your interest payments to cover their own , and they usually ca n't pay off early ( bonds , which are shares of corporate debt , do n't really work that way ) . The better option is to keep those scheduled payments coming to them , even if they lose a little off the top . Often if a homeowner is working with their current bank for a lower payment , no new loan is created , but the terms of the current loan are renegotiated ; this is called a " loan modification " ( especially when the Government is requiring the bank to sit down at the bargaining table ) , or in some cases a " streamlining " ( if the bank and borrower are meeting in more amicable circumstances without the Government forcing either one to be there ) . Historically , the idea of giving a homeowner a break on their contractual obligations would be comical to the bank . In recent times , though , the threat of foreclosure ( the bank 's primary weapon ) does n't have the same teeth it used to ; someone facing 30 years of budget-busting payments , on a house that will never again be worth what he paid for it , would look at foreclosure and even bankruptcy as the better option , as it 's theoretically all over and done with in only 7-10 years . With the Government having a vested interest in keeping people in their homes , making whatever payments they can , to keep some measure of confidence in the entire financial system , loan modifications have become much more common , and the banks are usually amicable as they 've found very quickly that they 're not getting anywhere near the purchase price for these " toxic assets " . Sometimes , a re-fi actually results in a higher APR , but it 's still a better deal for the homeowner because the loan does n't have other associated costs lumped in , such as mortgage insurance ( money the guarantor wants in return for underwriting the loan , which is in turn required by the FDIC to protect the bank in case you default ) . The homeowner pays less , the bank gets more , everyone 's happy ( including the guarantor ; they do n't really want to be underwriting a loan that requires PMI in the first place as it 's a significant risk ) . The U.S. Government is spending a lot of money and putting a lot of pressure on FDIC-insured institutions ( including virtually all mortgage lenders ) to cut the average Joe a break . Banks get tax breaks when they do loan modifications . The Fed 's buying at-risk bond packages backed by distressed mortgages , and where the homeowner has n't walked away completely they 're negot
Determine which fund company issues the fund . In this case , a search reveals the fund name to be Vanguard Dividend Growth Fund from Vanguard Funds . Locate information for the fund on the fund company 's web site . Here is the <URL> . In the fund information , look for information about distributions . In the case of VDIGX , the fourth tab to the right of " Overview " is " Distributions " . <URL> . At the top : Distributions for this fund are scheduled Semi-Annually The actual distribution history should give you some clues as to when . Failing that , ask your broker or the fund company directly . On " distribution " vs. " dividend " : When a mutual fund spins off periodic cash , it is generally not called a " dividend " , but rather a " distribution " . The terminology is different because a distribution can be made up of more than one kind of payout . Dividends are just one kind . Capital gains , interest , and return of capital are other kinds of cash that can be distributed . While cash is cash , the nature of each varies for tax purposes and so they are classified differently .
If you 're a US citizen/resident - you pay taxes on your worldwide income regardless of where you live . The logic is that Americans generally do n't agree to the view that there 's more than one country in the world . If you 're non-US person , not physically present in the US , and provide contract work for a US employer - you generally do n't pay taxes in the US . The logic is that the US does n't actually have any jurisdiction over that money , you did n't earn it in the US . That said , your employer might withheld tax and remit it to the IRS , and you 'll have to chase them for refund . If you receive income from the US rental property or dividends from a US company - you pay income tax to the US on that income , and then bargain with your home tax authority on refunds of the difference between what you paid in the US and what you should have paid at home . You can also file non-resident tax return in the US to claim what you have paid in excess . The logic is that the money sourced in the US should be taxed in the US . You earned that money in the US . There are additional rules to more specific situation , and there are also bilateral treaties between countries ( including a US-Canadian treaty ) that supersede national laws . Bottom line , not only that each country has its own laws , there are also different laws for different situations , and if some of the international treaties apply to you - it further complicates the situation . If something is not clear - get a professional advice form a tax accountant licensed in the relevant jurisdictions ( in your case - any of the US states , and the Canadian province where you live ) .
Short answer That ratio is a decent approximation of the market cap distribution in VTSMX , although it 's not perfect because the two funds you have access to , VIIIX and VIEIX , overlap somewhat in their holdings . The S&amp;P 500 and the completion index do n't . Using the S&amp;P 500 and the completion index as relative weights gives you ( 14.7 +3.4 ) / 14.7 = 81.2 % and 1-0 .812 = 18.8 % for VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively . We can verify that this is close to the best allocation using either of the two methods below . Based on that , it 's safe to say that an allocation of 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX should replicate VTSMX pretty well . Remember that because of expense ratios ( among other factors ) , the returns to your replicated portfolio may not match the returns to the target portfolio exactly . Long answer According to Morningstar , <URL> has the market cap distribution shown in the first column . Morningstar places VTSMX in the Large Blend category , so the category averages in the right-hand column are for that category . The benchmark index is the <URL> . <URL> and <URL> have these distributions : We want to find allocations for VIIIX and VIEIX , i.e. two percentages that sum to 1 , that give us a portfolio with a market cap distribution as close to that of VTSMX as possible . There are several methods that would work for this ; both return the same solution : Method 1 : Goal-seeking in Excel Using the goal-seek feature of Excel , I found that allocating 80.5712423979149 % of your portfolio to VIIIX and the remainder ( 19.4287576 % ) to VIEX yields this distribution ( shown in the " replicated " column ) , which is pretty close . The second data column is VTSMX , the fund you 're trying to replicate . This gives me the allocation of approximately 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX that I listed in the short answer above . The percent error , which is calculated as the absolute value of the difference between the allocations divided by the allocation in VTSMX , increases as market capitalization decreases , but that should n't bother you . Since allocation decreases as market cap decreases , even though the error grows as market cap decreases , that error represents an increasingly small amount of the fund 's actual value . This is n't a perfect system , because I 'm abusing the notion of " weighted percent errors " a little here , but hopefully the idea is clear . Method 2 : Matrices In this specific case , matrices provide a much more robust , and arguably logical , strategy . From a mathematical perspective , this is the problem we 're trying to solve : where and are the percentage allocations of VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively , that you want in your 401K portfolio . At first glance , it looks like you can simply solve the last equation for and substitute that value into any of the first four equations to solve for ; unfortunately , if you try this strategy with the fourth equation , you get a value of , but if you try this with the third equation , you get . If you try using the value of that came from the fourth equation in any of the other equations ( besides the fifth one , in which it does n't matter ) you 'll find it wo n't work . The same goes for the that came from the third equation , or the second , or the first . It seems we have a problem . All is not lost , however . If you 've ever taken an algebra course , you can see that the system of equations above looks like this matrix equation : I labeled the numerical matrix on the left-hand side of the equation to save space . The linear algebra theory probably is n't exciting to everyone as it is to me , so I 'll keep it short . Since is a 5x2 matrix with <URL> 2 , it therefore has a <URL> , which we can calculate like this : With our left-inverse in hand , we can quickly find the solution to the matrix equation like this : which gives us the same solution that we found with Excel . It 's also important to understand that this is the " best " solution to the problem ; in other words , we have found the weights of VIIIX and VIEIX that replicates the market cap distribution of VTSMX as closely as possible . If you 've ever taken a statistics or econometrics course , you might recognize the calculation and application of the left-inverse as the <URL> estimation of the weights ; that means that in this case , " closest " implies that the weights we found minimize the sum of the squares of the differences ( " errors " or " residuals " ) between our replicated portfolio and VTSMX . While the matrix/OLS method seems more complicated , I include it because it may be much quicker computationally than using Excel if you attempt to replicate a portfolio using more than two funds . The matrix/OLS method also scales very well in situations where more than two funds are used in the replication . Also , in this case , we had the relative weights of the S&amp;P 500 and the Completion Index to use as guides , but once we start adding more funds with potentially more overlapping holdings between them , calculating a simple ratio may not work
Index Funds &amp; ETFs , if they are tracking the same index , will be the same in an ideal world . The difference would be because of the following factors : Expense ratio : i.e. the expense the funds charge . This varies and hence it would lead to a difference in performance . Tracking error : this means that there is a small percentage of error between the actual index composition and the fund composition . This is due to various reasons . Effectively this would result in the difference between values . Demand / Supply : with ETFs , the fund is traded on stock exchanges like a stock . If the general feeling is that the index is rising , it could lead to an increase in the price of the ETF . Index funds on the other hand would remain the same for the day and are less liquid . This results in a price increase / decrease depending on the market . The above explains the reason for the difference . Regarding which one to buy , one would need to consider other factors like : a ) How easy is it to buy ETFs ? Do you already hold Demat A/C &amp; access to brokers to help you conduct the transaction or do you need to open an additional account at some cost . b ) Normally funds do not need any account , but are you OK with less liquidity as it would take more time to redeem funds .
Today typically a Business needs to hold accounts in more than one currency . Banks in certain countries are offering what is called a dual currency account . It is essentially 2 accounts with same account number but different currency . So One can have an account number say 123456 and have it in say AUD and USD . So the balance will always show as X AUD and Y USD . If you deposit funds [ electronic , check or cash ] in USD ; your USD balance goes up . Likewise at the time of withdrawal you have to specify what currency you are withdrawing . Interest rates are calculated at different percentage for different currencies . So in a nutshell it would like operating 2 accounts , with the advantage of remembering only one account number . Designate a particular currency as default currency . So if you do n't quote a currency along with the account number , it would be treated as default currency . Otherwise you always quote the account number and currency . Of-course bundled with other services like free Fx Advice etc it makes the entire proposition very attractive . Edit : If you have AUD 100 and USD 100 , if you try and withdraw USD 110 , it will not be allowed ; Unless you also sign up for a auto sweep conversion . If you deposit a GBP check into the account , by default it would get converted into AUD [ assuming AUD is the default currency ]
Your situation may be different if your employer contracts with a different company to manage these benefits ( or manages them themselves ) , but I 'll give you my experience . My employer contracts with WageWorks . I log on to the WageWorks site , select commuter options from a predefined list , e.g. public transit passes , gas debit cards , parking passes , etc. and the cost of my choices is automatically deducted from my paycheck each month , up to the limit . WageWorks either sends me whatever I purchased in the mail or reloads the card automatically , and the process continues each month . In my case , I could n't use this to purchase a ticket for someone else , but I could choose the subway option for myself and let another person use it .
A title such as " 5 % Treasury Gilt 2020 " expresses the nominal yield . In other words , 5 % is the yield you will receive if you are able to buy the Gilt at the nominal ( issue ) price of GBP100 . Of course , you will not be able to buy such a Gilt in today 's market for the nominal price of GBP100 . It will be trading at a considerable premium and therefore , if you hold it until maturity you will realise a capital loss to offset the relatively high income you have received . Here is an example . The " 8 % June 2021 Gilt " has a coupon of 8 % . To purchase a GBP100 nominal Gilt in today 's market will cost you GBP135 .89 . Thus , you will pay 135.89 to receive GBP8 .00 income annually . This represents a 5.88 % yield ( 8/135 .89 = 5.88 % ) . That sounds pretty good . However , if you hold the Gilt until maturity you will only receive GBP100 on redemption and therefore you will experience a capital loss GBP35 .89 on each Gilt purchased . When this capital loss is taken into account it means that the 5.88 % yield you are receiving as income will be offset by the capital loss so that you have earned the equivalent of 0.757 % annually . You can of course sell the Gilt before its 2021 maturity date , however as the maturity date gets closer the market price will get closer to the GBP100 nominal value and you will again face a capital loss . There 's no free ride in the markets . 5 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 0.75 % , while 10 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 1.15 % . You may also wish to note that buying Gilts in the open market requires a minimum purchase of GBP10 ,000 nominal value . However , you can purchase small Gilt holdings through the post office .
As you alluded to in your question , there is not one answer that will be true for all mutual funds . In fact , I would argue the question is not specific to mutual funds but can be applied to almost anyone who must make an investment decision : a mutual fund manager , hedge fund manager , or an individual investor . Even though money going into a company 401 ( k ) retirement savings plan is typically automatically allocated to different funds as we have specified , this is generally not the case for other investment accounts . For example , I also have a Roth IRA in which I have some money from each paycheck direct deposited and it 's up to me to decide whether to leave that money in cash or to invest it somewhere else . Every time you invest more money into a mutual fund , the fund manager has the same decision to make . There are two commonly used mutual fund figures that relate to your question : turnover rate , and cash reserves . Turnover rate measures the percent of a fund 's portfolio that changes every year . For example , a turnover rate of 100 % indicates that a fund replaces every asset it held at the beginning of the year with something else at the end of the year -- funds with turnover rates greater than 100 % average a holding period for a given asset of less than one year , and funds with turnover rates less than 100 % average a holding period for a given asset of more than one year . Cash reserves simply measure the amount of money funds choose to keep as cash instead of investing in other assets . Another important distinction to make is between actively managed funds and passively managed funds . Passively managed funds are often referred to as " index funds " and have as their goal only to match the returns of a given index or some other benchmark . Actively managed funds on the other hand try to beat the market by exploiting so-called market inefficiencies ; e.g. buying undervalued assets , selling overvalued assets , " timing " the market , etc. . To answer your question for a specific fund , I would encourage you to look at the fund 's prospectus . I take as one example of a passively managed fund the Vanguard 500 Index Fund ( VFINX ) , a mutual fund that was created to track the S&amp;P 500 . In <URL> , the fund states that , " to track its target index as closely as possible , the Fund attempts to remain fully invested in stocks " . Furthermore , the prospectus states that " the fund 's daily cash balance may be invested in one or more Vanguard CMT Funds , which are very low-cost money market funds . " Therefore , we would expect both this fund 's turnover rate and cash reserves to be extremely low . When we look at <URL> , we see this is true -- it is currently at a 4.8 % turnover rate and holds 0.0 % in short term reserves . Therefore , we can assume this fund is regularly purchasing shares ( similar to a dollar cost averaging strategy ) instead of holding on to cash and purchasing shares together at a specific time . For actively managed funds , the picture will tend to look a little different . For example , if we look at the <URL> , we can see it has a turnover rate of 42 % , and holds around .95 % in cash/short term reserves . In this case , we can safely guess that trading activity may not be as regular as a passively managed fund , as an active manager attempts to time the market . You may find mutual funds that have much higher cash reserves -- perhaps 10 % or even more . Granted , it is impossible to know the exact trading strategy of a mutual fund , and for good reason -- if we knew for example , that a fund purchases shares every day at 2:30 PM in order to realign with the S&amp;P 500 , then sellers of S&amp;P components could up the prices at that time to exploit the mutual fund 's trade strategy . Large traders are constantly trying to find ways to conceal their actual trading activity in order to avoid these exact problems . Finally , I feel obligated to note that it is important to keep in mind that trade frequency is linked to transactions costs -- in general , the more frequently an investment manager ( whether it be you or a mutual fund manager ) executes trades , the more that manager will lose in transactions costs .
Credit cards come with an interest-free grace period of ~ 25 days as long as you pay your balance in full every month . In other words , charges made in January will appear on a bill cut on Jan 31 , and due around the 25th of February . If paid in full by 2/25 , there 's no interest . It is a very good idea to get in the habit of paying off your entire balance every month for this very reason . Do n't buy anything you ca n't afford to pay for at the end of the month when the credit card bill is due . You 'll avoid interest charges , build good habits , and improve your credit score . By just paying the minimum amount due , you 'll be charged interest from the moment of purchase , and the grace period on new purchases goes away . Credit card companies make the minimum amount due relatively low as a way to encourage you to pay more and more in interest every month . Do n't fall for it ! Look for a credit card with zero annual fee . Sure , rewards are nice , but it 's more important to avoid fees , keep the interest rate low , and get in the habit of paying in full every month , in which case the interest rate wo n't matter . Your bank or credit union is a good place to start looking .
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
In general , the goal of an S&amp;P 500 index fund is to replicate the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index . To do this , the fund will buy the same stocks in the same proportions as the weighting of the Index . The S&amp;P 500 Index is free-float capitalization weighted . This means that the higher capitalization stocks ( based on publicly traded shares only ) are more heavily weighted and factor into the Index value more heavily than the smaller capitalization stocks , or the stocks that have a smaller publicly traded value . For example , companies like Apple , ExxonMobil , and Microsoft have a much larger weight in the index value than smaller companies . Alternatively , there are some S&amp;P index funds that are equal-weighted . In these funds , the managers have chosen to purchase all 500 of the stocks in the index , but in equal proportions instead of the weighted proportions of the index . These equal-weighted funds will not as closely match the index price as the traditionally weighted index funds . Instead , they might do better or worse than the index , depending on how the individual stocks do . You 'll need to look at the prospectus of the index funds you are interested in to see which approach the fund is taking .
Unfortunately that is exactly how FSA works . When your employment ended with that company , that puts a early end date on the funds . You can still submit bills , but only if they are for the period between January 1st 2015 and your last day under the plan . If there are any bills from earlier in the year , you can still submit them . Otherwise there is nothing you can do .
Yes , for example <URL> , a mutual fund tracking the Nasdaq and <URL> and <URL> , two ETFs tracking the Dow . Yes , they all pay dividends because the funds are required to distribute the dividends they receive from their constituent stocks .
Credit ratings are the same as credit score , but they very different from a credit report . A credit score is a calculated number based on a usually secret formula that attempts to quantify with math a consistent number that ranks everybody equally and uniformly as to the risk they present to a lender . Basically , we are all just a number ; the higher the better . Your credit report is a detailed list of all your accounts , how well you pay them and if you are behind or have settled them as agreed . It is a detailed history of how you use credit , who you have credit from , how long you have had credit , and how much credit and debt you carry . A credit report relies on lenders honestly and accurately stating how your account is performing with them . Some radio show hosts ( Clark Howard ) say that up to 70 % of United States citizens have a mistake on their credit reports . The credit report is the source of values that are computed into your credit score . By and large , your credit score gives a lender a good idea if you are acceptable , but if you number is on the line , they MIGHT choose to read your credit report to make a decision by a human . Your credit score is how retail stores can offer and immediately approve store cards . If you number is high enough , credit you get . Source : <URL> EDIT : I did n't read well the first time , but sine I typed it I will leave it here . Sorry for rushing and not reading well .
I think you 're on the right track with that strategy . If you want to learn more about this strategy , I 'd recommend " The Intelligent Asset Allocator " by William Bernstein . As for the Über -- Tuber portfolio you linked to , my only concern would be that it is diversified in everything except for the short-term bond component , which is 40 % . It might be worth looking at some portfolios that have more than one bond allocation -- possibly diversifying more across corporate vs government , and intermediate vs short term . Even the Cheapskate 's portfolio located immediately above the Über -- Tuber has 20 % Corporate and 20 % Government . Also note that they mention : Because it includes so many funds , it would be expensive and unwieldy for an account less than $ 100,000 . Regarding your question about the disadvantages of an index-fund-based asset allocation strategy : It requires discipline to execute . If you let your actual allocation stray too far from the target allocation , you do n't get all of the advantages of diversification . If you select the wrong allocation you can end up with poor performance . As a rough general rule , the more poorly correlated assets you assemble into your portfolio , the lower risk you can expect for a given expected return . Discipline again : if one of your assets takes a dive and you panic , sell , and let the money sit in cash , then you lose out on gains when that asset recovers in price . It takes experience and discipline to be able to buy stocks during times like November 2008 or October 2001 .
JoeTaxpayer 's answer adequately explained leverage and some of your risks . Your risks also include : If your balance drops too low , below the required margin , but still positive , the broker can close your trade . It has been reported that some forex brokers will review margin call accounts in an unscrupulous way , after reviewing the currency 's chart for the day , closing out accounts at the worst price of the day instead of the price at which margin was insufficient . Spikes . Some brokers report price spikes in the buying or selling price which can cause your trade to be closed out unfavorably . These spikes may or may not exist at other forex brokerages or in futures market prices . Unlike the stock market and unlike the futures market , there is not a central forex market and so there is not a definitive price/time chart that could aid in holding a broker accountable for any unusual executions on your trades . You could indeed be trading in a small " bubble " of the " real " forex market . Should your broker 's internet site go down at the wrong time , or the broker have to close its doors , you may not be able to control your account for a time long enough to lose substantial amounts of money . Your account might then be closed for low margin , or closed out as zero or negative . Unlike accounts for trading in the stock and futures markets , a forex account can not be easily transferred . This exacerbates risk ( 4 ) , compared to what would happen at a bankrupt or government-seized stock or futures broker . The firm 's risk is that you will figure out a way to leave them with a negative account that contributes to another customer 's profit and yet you disappear in a way that makes the negative account impossible to collect . Another risk is that you are not who you say you are , or that the money you invest is not yours . These are called " know your customer " risks .
The relevant Canada Revenue Agency web site is <URL> Withdrawing in the same year does not generate additional room . <URL> suggest it is best to avoid withdrawing if you expect you would replenish in the same year . Likewise , you can transfer among your various accounts without penalty . If you change financial institutions , for example , there is no double reporting as you seem to be concerned about if it is tracked as a TFSA Transfer ( similar to an RRSP transfer ) from one registered account to another . The paperwork is not as if it was a deposit but merely a transfer .
The charts on nasdaq.com are log based , if you look closely you can see that the spacing between evenly incremented prices is tighter at the top of the chart and wider at the bottom . It 's easiest to see on a stock with a wide price range using candlestick where you can clearly see the grid . I 'm also not seeing the " absurdism " you indicate when I look at google finance with the settings ticked to use log on the price axis . I see what I 'd expect which is basically a given vertical differential on the price axis representing the same percentage change in price no matter where it is located . For example if I look at GOOG from the earliest date they have ( Aug 20 2004 ) to a nice high point ( dec 7 2007 ) I see a cart where the gap from the the bottom of the chart ( seems to be right around 100 ) to the 200 point , ( a 100 % increase ) is the same as from 200 to 400 ( a 100 % increase ) is the same as 400 to 800 ( a 100 # increase ) That 's exactly what I expect from a ' log ' chart on a financial site , each relative move up or down of the same distance , represents the same relative change in value . So I 'm having difficulty understanding what your complaint is . ( note : I 'm using chrome , which is the browser I 'd expect to work best with any google website . results with other browsers could of course vary ) If you want to do some other wacky math with the axis then I humbly suggest that something like Excel is your friend . Goto the charts at nasdaq.com get the chart displaying the period you care about , click the chart to display the unlying data , there will be an option to download the data . cram it into excel and go wild as you want with charting it out . e.g. go to the nasdaq basic charting page , for example <URL> move your mouse on top of the chart and click a new window opens that has a table with the data from the chart , and at the top is a link that says ' Download This File in Excel Format ' click that link . note that step 2 links to client side javascript , so you will need javascript enabled , if you are running something like noscript , disable it for this site . Also since the data opens in a new window , you may also need to enabled ' popups ' for the site . ( and yes , I sometimes get an annoying news alert advert popup and have to close it when the chart first appears . . oh well it pays the rent and nasdaq is not charging you so for access so such is the price for a free site . )
end question
start question
Do I include a spouse 's Traditional IRA when converting my non-deductible Traditional IRA into a Roth IRA ?
The I in IRA stands for Individual . You can do a backdoor conversion of all or part of your Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA all by yourself regardless of whether your spouse converts her IRA or not , and the taxable part of the rollover is determined by what your Form 8606 says , not what is on her Form 8606 . But since you file a joint return with your spouse , she will have the ineffable joy of being as liable as you for the income tax that is due on the conversion : on a joint tax return , both spouses are jointly and severally liable for the tax due ( no halfsies ) . If one person does not pay , the other is liable for the entire amount .
Unfortunately , It would be very unusual if you were able to roll a 401k out of your current employer . Details are plan specific , so you should check with your plan administrator .
From my friends at <URL> this is the 2012 tax table . This is the table of tax due on taxable income , i.e. the ' bottom line ' of the return after all deductions , credits , etc. . If your taxable income is exactly $ 35,350 , you are " in the 15 % bracket " as the last $ 100 was taxed at 15 % . But , the next $ 100 of income would be taxed at 25 % . Yes , part of the 401 ( k ) process is that you need to be aware of what the tax would have been on the pre-tax 401 ( k ) money . Since a Roth is post-tax money , it does n't change your bracket , only pre-tax 401 ( k ) or Traditional IRA will do that . At a taxable $ 50,000 , you are clearly in the 25 % bracket and would choose your account accordingly . You can see above , the way the tax structure works is progressive . i.e. . The tax on $ 35,350 is fixed at $ 4867.50 and only the amount above this is taxed at 25 % . The next $ 100 or $ 1000 in taxable income wo n't push other income into the higher bracket . Many use the strategy user102008 alluded to , navigating one 's retirement deposits so the pretax account saved them from 25 % income , but does n't drop too far into the 15 % bracket . A mix of Traditional 401 ( k ) , Roth 401 ( k ) , Traditional IRA , and Roth IRA , can help you hit the goal dead-on if you are willing to pay a bit of attention during the year .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
This is a question that you want to make sure with a tax expert . It appears based on the IRS documents that you can do so . The question is will the confusing set of documents slow the IRS computers and delay your refund . If you recontribute to a new account , I would even select a new custodian , within the 60 day window this should not be a big deal . If you go beyond the 60 day window it should be fine , just a little more complex to sort out . You should contribute the original amount plus the earnings from the original investment ; Otherwise the earnings from the first account will be taxed . I would also fund the second account by the end of the calendar year to clearly mark the 2nd contribution and one for this year . You normally have until April 15th to contribute to an IRA , but doing so this year will help make sure all the paperwork matches . Please talk with a professional before making the second contribution if you will be beyond the 60 day window .
The idea behind a Roth IRA is taxes will go up in the future so you are best off paying less in taxes now than in the future , which is why Roth IRAs are contributed to with post-tax dollars whereas traditional IRAs are contributed to with pre-tax dollars . The theoritical advantage comes when you want to withdrawal your money . With the traditional IRA , when you withdrawal money , you pay ordinary income tax on all withdrawals . With a Roth IRA , all withdrawals ( after the age of 59 1/2 ) are tax free , including any gains you may have made . To illistrate , with a very simple example , assume you make $ 50,000 and your IRA grows at 5 % for 40 years . Contribution Traditional IRA - $ 5,000 Roth IRA - $ 3,750 ( $ 5,000 after taxes ) Totals after 40 years Traditional IRA - $ 604,000 Roth IRA - $ 453,000 Withdrawal equally over 15 years Traditional IRA - $ 604,000 / 15 = $ 40,266 * 75 % ( 25 % tax ) = $ 30,200 / year Roth IRA - $ 453,000 / 15 = $ 30,200 / year First , this was not a contrived example and I was surprised the numbers worked out this way . Second , as you can see with this example there is really no advantage either way unless you by into the theory of higher taxes in the future .
I think you may be drawing the wrong conclusion about why you put what type of investment in a taxable vs. tax-advantaged account . It is not so much about risk , but type of return . If you 're investing both tax-advantaged and taxable accounts , you can benefit by putting more tax-inefficient investments inside your tax-advantaged accounts . Some aggressive asset types , like real estate , can throw off a lot of taxable income . If your asset allocation calls for investing in real estate , holding it in a 401k or IRA can allow more of your money to remain invested , rather than having to use it to pay for taxes . And if you 're holding in a Roth IRA , you get that tax free . But bonds , a decidedly non-aggressive asset , also throw off a lot of taxable income . You 're able to hold them in a tax-advantaged account and not pay taxes on the income until you withdraw it from the account ( or tax free in the case of a Roth account . ) An aggressive stock fund that is primarily expected to provide returns via price appreciation would do well in a taxable account because there 's likely little tax consequence to you until it is sold .
Roth IRAs divide your withdrawal into 3 categories : Contributions , Conversions , and Earnings . This is significant , because each have different tax consequences and the order of withdrawal is dictated by tax law . Contributions - First to be withdrawn . This is the money you invested and has already had taxes paid on it . No taxes will need to be paid on it . Conversions - Second to be withdrawn . This is money converted from a traditional IRA and does sound like it applies in your question . Earnings - Last to be withdrawn . This is investment gain made from contributions and conversions . You can withdraw your contributions in less than 5 years for any reason ( home buyer or not ) . You can not withdraw your conversions or earnings without waiting 5 years unless you pay the 10 % penalty . The home buyer exemption is only after the 5 years are met . Further detail found on the motley fool : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> .
Edited in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comment and OP Tim 's additional question . To add to and clarify a little what littleadv has said , and to answer OP Tim 's next question : As far as the IRS is concerned , you have at most one Individual Retirement Account of each type ( Traditional , Roth ) though the money in each IRA can be invested with as many different custodians ( brokerages , banks , etc. ) and different investments as you like . Thus , the maximum $ 5000 ( $ 6000 for older folks ) that you can contribute each year can be split up and invested any which way you like , and when in later years you take a Required Minimum Distribution ( RMD ) from a Traditional IRA , you can get the money by selling just one of the investments , or from several investments ; all that the IRS cares is that the total amount that is distributed to you is at least as large as the RMD . An important corollary is that the balance in your IRA is the sum total of the value of all the investments that various custodians are holding for you in IRA accounts . There is no loss in an IRA until every penny has been withdrawn from every investment in your IRA and distributed to you , thus making your IRA balance zero . As long as you have a positive balance , there is no loss : everything has to come out . After the last distribution from your Roth IRA ( the one that empties your entire Roth IRA , no matter where it is invested and reduces your Roth IRA balance ( see definition above ) to zero ) , total up all the amounts that you have received as distributions from your Roth IRA . If this is less than the total amount of money you contributed to your Roth IRA ( this includes rollovers from a Traditional IRA or Roth 401k etc. , but not the earnings within the Roth IRA that you re-invested inside the Roth IRA ) , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI limit . This 2 % is not a cap ( in the sense that no more than 2 % of your AGI can be deducted in this category ) but rather a threshold : you can only deduct whatever part of your total Miscellaneous Deductions exceeds 2 % of your AGI . Not many people have Miscellaneous Deductions whose total exceeds 2 % of their AGI , and so they end up not being able to deduct anything in this category . If you ever made nondeductible contributions to your Traditional IRA because you were ineligible to make a deductible contribution ( income too high , pension plan coverage at work etc ) , then the sum of all these contributions is your basis in your Traditional IRA . Note that your deductible contributions , if any , are not part of the basis . The above rules apply to your basis in your Traditional IRA as well . After the last distribution from your Traditional IRA ( the one that empties all your Traditional IRA accounts and reduces your Traditional IRA balance to zero ) , total up all the distributions that you received ( do n't forget to include the nontaxable part of each distribution that represents a return of the basis ) . If the sum total is less than your basis , you have a loss that can be deducted on Schedule A as a Miscellaneous Deduction subject to the 2 % AGI threshold . You can only deposit cash into an IRA and take a distribution in cash from an IRA . Now , as JoeTaxpayer points out , if your IRA owns stock , you can take a distribution by having the shares transferred from your IRA account in your brokerage to your personal account in the brokerage . However , the amount of the distribution , as reported by the brokerage to the IRS , is the value of the shares transferred as of the time of the transfer , ( more generally the fair market value of the property that is transferred out of the IRA ) and this is the amount you report on your income tax return . Any capital gain or loss on those shares remains inside the IRA because your basis ( in your personal account ) in the shares that came out of the IRA is the amount of the distribution . If you sell these shares at a later date , you will have a ( taxable ) gain or loss depending on whether you sold the shares for more or less than your basis . In effect , the share transfer transaction is as if you sold the shares in the IRA , took the proceeds as a cash distribution and immediately bought the same shares in your personal account , but you saved the transaction fees for the sale and the purchase and avoided paying the difference between the buying and selling price of the shares as well as any changes in these in the microseconds that would have elapsed between the execution of the sell-shares-in-Tim 's - IRA-account , distribute-cash-to-Tim , and buy-shares-in-Tim 's - personal account transactions . Of course , your broker will likely charge a fee for transferring ownership of the shares from your IRA to you . But the important point is that any capital gain or loss within the IRA can not be used to offset a gain or loss in your taxable accounts . What happens inside the IRA stays inside the IRA .
Conversions are done on a pro-rata basis . If you have n't yet paid tax on the money , you need to do so in the process of converting . Let 's say you have a total of $ 50k in your account : $ 10k in deductible contributions $ 10k in non-deductible contributions $ 20k in 401 ( k ) rollover funds $ 10k in as-yet untaxed earnings If you decide to convert half of this to a Roth ( $ 25k ) , you 'd owe tax on $ 20k of that , because 80 % of your holdings in the traditional IRA have not been taxed yet . The non-deductible contributions have been taxed , so you do n't need to pay tax again on that part . More information is <URL> .
You are permitted to withdraw the deposits from the Roth with no tax or penalty any time . To Dilip 's point , the Roth is a good place to keep the investment , and what you might consider is a ' self-directed ' account . This type of IRA or Roth IRA permits a choice of investments that are not typically handled by banks or brokers , including Real Estate and the type of Angel investing you seem to be considering . Note - the rules are tough , you need to be very careful to not be self-dealing , or dealing with certain related parties .
With all due respect to calculators , most are missing something . The MSN calculator assumes you will pay the conversion tax out of the IRA itself . Most agree that if you do n't have the funds in non-retirement accounts , do n't convert . Second , it assumes you know your current <URL> ( I hope you do ) and your marginal tax rate at retirement ( I sure do n't . In fact , I believe this is not knowable . ) To answer your question - yes , you may convert in 2011 . But should you ? What bracket are you in now ? In general , it would take quite of bit of saving to retire in a higher bracket , or a great defined benefit plan , or both . I wrote an article titled <URL> , in which I walk through the math to illustrate this . A general rule I offer is that if you are adamant about converting , understand your tax bracket and convert just enough to ' top off ' that bracket . For most people , this means topping off the 15 % bracket and avoiding the 25 % bracket , in 2012 for singles , 15 % runs from $ 8700 to $ 35,350 , joint , $ 17,400 to $ 70,700 . Remember this is taxable income , not gross , so the numbers shift up by exemptions , and deductions , whether standard or itemized . Sorry if I sound preachy , I just want to help others avoid the conversion bandwagon , paying taxes at 25 % and even at 15 % , but then finding they are in the zero bracket at retirement with no income to offset . ( I use the term " zero bracket " as a euphemism for the total of the exemptions and deductions . The amount you can have as income and have zero taxable income . You do sound like you are on the right path with some savings in the 401 ( k ) along with its match . My answer here may help you analyze that balance and either confirm you are good , or tweak a bit . Edited my answer to show 2012 numbers .
No , you ca n't . The limits are contribution limits , not limits on the value of the investment . If you contributed $ 5,500 for 2015 , you are done contributing for that tax year . You are free to contribute another $ 5,500 for 2016 .
The answer is in <URL> on page 17 On IRS Form 8606 you may enter the non deductible amount on line 1 of the form . The <URL> for <URL> state on page 5 : Taking the deduction is optional if you qualify for the deduction .
No , your accountant is completely incorrect . They have no relation to each other . Traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs share the same contribution limit , but this has nothing to do with 401 ( k ) s. Traditional 401 ( k ) s and Roth 401 ( k ) s share a separate contribution limit , but this has nothing to do with IRAs . The only thing that can limit your Roth IRA contribution in your case is if your income is hitting the income limit .
Options : Buy Vanguard Bond Funds that are tax free for wherever you live . Put the money into the highest yield savings account you can find ( for amounts over 5k this is probably going to be 1.25 % ) Put the money into the highest yield CD you can find . ( personally I did the first and it is working well ) .
Your max contribution to your Roth IRA and your traditional IRA share the same cap , so if you are maxing your Roth IRA you can not have a traditional one as well . I would put the additional into your 401k or perhaps a 529 if you have any kids .
I 've never seen anything in any IRS publication that placed limits on the balance of a 401K , only on what you can contribute ( and defer from taxes ) each year . The way the IRS ' gets theirs ' as it were is on the taxes you have to pay ( for a traditional IRA anyway ) which would not be insubstantial when you start to figure out the required minimum distribution if the balance was 14Mill . . You 're required to take out enough to in theory run the thing out of money by your life expectancy . . The IRS has tables for this stuff to give you the exact numbers , but for the sake of a simple example , their number for someone age 70 ( single or with a spouse who is not more than 10 years younger ) is 27.4 . . If we round that to 28 to make the math nice , then you would be forced to withdraw and pay taxes on around $ 500,000 per year . ( So there would be a hefty amount of taxes to be paid out for sure ) . So a lot of that $ 500K a year going to pay taxes on your distributions , but then , considering you only contributed 660,000 pre-tax dollars in the first place , what a wonderful problem to have to deal with . Oh do n't throw me in THAT briar patch mr fox !
No , the situation is not different , the roll-over rules are the same . It wo n't be taxable ( as opposed to traditional to Roth roll-over ) , but other than that it 's the same . Whether the 401k allows rolling over or not while you 're still employed - you have to check with the plan administrator ( ask your payroll/HR for details ) . Usually , the deferred compensation can not be rolled over out of the 401k while you 're still employed .
The tax deferred status of a 401k plan helps you in theory because your tax rate will be lower once you retire and start drawing the money . This theory could prove incorrect . Also the money you add to a 401k lowers your taxable income today so you end up paying less taxes to the government right now . Depending on where you are in the tax bracket scale that could have the affect of lowering your tax bracket which will save you money in other areas . Each person 's situation is different by my general theory is to contribute towards retirement in the following order : 401k - contribute enough to get any free money . Roth IRA - contribute the maximum allowed under the law . 401k - contribute the additional up to the maximum allowed under the law . Non-retirement account - any additional you want to save just save it in a non-tax deferred account . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
What factors should I consider when evaluating index funds ?
The idea of an index is that it is representative of the market ( or a specific market segment ) as a whole , so it will move as the market does . Thus , past performance is not really relevant , unless you want to bank on relative differences between different countries ' economies . But that 's not the point . By far the most important aspect when choosing index funds is the ongoing cost , usually expressed as Total Expense Ratio ( TER ) , which tells you how much of your investment will be eaten up by trading fees and to pay the funds ' operating costs ( and profits ) . This is where index funds beat traditional actively managed funds - it should be below 0.5 % The next question is how buying and selling the funds works and what costs it incurs . Do you have to open a dedicated account or can you use a brokerage account at your bank ? Is there an account management fee ? Do you have to buy the funds at a markup ( can you get a discount on it ) ? Are there flat trading fees ? Is there a minimum investment ? What lot sizes are possible ? Can you set up a monthly payment plan ? Can you automatically reinvest dividends/coupons ? Then of course you have to decide which index , i.e. which market you want to buy into . My answer in the other question apparently did n't make it clear , but I was talking only about stock indices . You should generally stick to broad , established indices like the MSCI World , S&amp;P 500 , Euro Stoxx , or in Australia the All Ordinaries . Among those , it makes some sense to just choose your home country 's main index , because that eliminates currency risk and is also often cheaper . Alternatively , you might want to use the opportunity to diversify internationally so that if your country 's economy tanks , you wo n't lose your job and see your investment take a dive . Finally , you should of course choose a well-established , reputable issuer . But this is n't really a business for startups ( neither shady nor disruptively consumer-friendly ) anyway .
Yes , for example <URL> , a mutual fund tracking the Nasdaq and <URL> and <URL> , two ETFs tracking the Dow . Yes , they all pay dividends because the funds are required to distribute the dividends they receive from their constituent stocks .
That 's the Total Return for the last 12 months . There was a dividend of $ 0.63 on December 22 , 2014 , causing the price to drop about $ 0.63 . If you reinvest that dividend at that time , that $ 0.63 will continue to grow till now . Use proper tools to look at Total Return : <URL> You would not see the gap down in December when using this tool , and the 1y Total Return on the chart clearly says ~ 16 %
If you read Joel Greenblatt 's The Little Book That Beats the Market , he says : Owning two stocks eliminates 46 % of the non market risk of owning just one stock . This risk is reduced by 72 % with 4 stocks , by 81 % with 8 stocks , by 93 % with 16 stocks , by 96 % with 32 stocks , and by 99 % with 500 stocks . Conclusion : After purchasing 6-8 stocks , benefits of adding stocks to decrease risk are small . Overall market risk wo n't be eliminated merely by adding more stocks . And that 's just specific stocks . So you 're very right that allocating a 1 % share to a specific type of fund is not going to offset your other funds by much . You are correct that you can emulate the lifecycle fund by simply buying all the underlying funds , but there are two caveats : Generally , these funds are supposed to be cheaper than buying the separate funds individually . Check over your math and make sure everything is in order . Call the fund manager and tell him about your findings and see what they have to say . If you are going to emulate the lifecycle fund , be sure to stay on top of rebalancing . One advantage of buying the actual fund is that the portfolio distributions are managed for you , so if you 're going to buy separate ETFs , make sure you 're rebalancing . As for whether you need all those funds , my answer is a definite no . Consider Mark Cuban 's blog post <URL> . Although there are some highly questionable points in the article , one portion is indisputably clear : Let me translate this all for you . " I want you to invest 5pct in cash and the rest in 10 different funds about which you know absolutely nothing . I want you to make this investment knowing that even if there were 128 hours in a day and you had a year long vacation , you could not possibly begin to understand all of these products . In fact , I do n't understand them either , but because I know it sounds good and everyone is making the same kind of recommendations , we all can pretend we are smart and going to make a lot of money . Until we do n't " Standard theory says that you want to invest in low-cost funds ( like those provided by Vanguard ) , and you want to have enough variety to protect against risk . Although I ca n't give a specific allocation recommendation because I do n't know your personal circumstances , you should ideally have some in US Equities , US Fixed Income , International Equities , Commodities , of varying sizes to have adequate diversification " as defined by theory . " You can either do your own research to establish a distribution , or speak to an investment advisor to get help on what your target allocation should be .
In general , the goal of an S&amp;P 500 index fund is to replicate the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index . To do this , the fund will buy the same stocks in the same proportions as the weighting of the Index . The S&amp;P 500 Index is free-float capitalization weighted . This means that the higher capitalization stocks ( based on publicly traded shares only ) are more heavily weighted and factor into the Index value more heavily than the smaller capitalization stocks , or the stocks that have a smaller publicly traded value . For example , companies like Apple , ExxonMobil , and Microsoft have a much larger weight in the index value than smaller companies . Alternatively , there are some S&amp;P index funds that are equal-weighted . In these funds , the managers have chosen to purchase all 500 of the stocks in the index , but in equal proportions instead of the weighted proportions of the index . These equal-weighted funds will not as closely match the index price as the traditionally weighted index funds . Instead , they might do better or worse than the index , depending on how the individual stocks do . You 'll need to look at the prospectus of the index funds you are interested in to see which approach the fund is taking .
The biggest factor is : Are you really going to invest the difference ? It is easy to say you will now , but unless you have a ton of discipline or some form of automatic investing , that is a hard thing to do in practice . Another consideration is that the 30 year loan will usually cost you more over the life of the loan because of the length of it . Another option is to take the 30 year loan and pay at the rate you would with a 15 . Then you get the benefit of paying it down quickly , but have the flexibility to only make smaller than usual payments in any month where you have a financial emergency and need the extra cash .
If you owned a bank how would you invest the bank 's money ? Typically banks are involved in loaning out money to businesses , people , and government at a higher interest rate then what they are paying to depositors . This is the spread and how they make money . If the bank determines that the yields on government bonds is more attractive then loaning the money out to businesses and people then the bank will purchase government bonds . It can also decide the other way . In this manner the mortgage and bond markets are always competing for capital and tend to offer very similar yields . Certain banks have the unique privilege of being able to borrow money from the FED at the Federal Funds rate and use this money to purchase government debt or loan it out to other banks or purchase other debt products . In this manner you see a high correlation between the FED funds rate , mortgage rates , and treasury yields . Other political factors include legislation that encourages mortgage lending ( see <URL> ) where banks may not have made the loans without said legislation . In short , keep your eye on the FED and ask yourself : " Does the FED want rates to rise ? " and " Can the US government afford <URL> ? " The answer to these two questions is no . However , the FED may be pressured to " stop the presses " if inflation becomes unwieldy and the FED actually starts to care about food and energy prices . So far this has n't been the <URL> .
Index funds typically pass the dividends on to the investor . Each quarter ( usually ) you 'll get the dividends paid by the components of the index the fund holds . That may not exactly match what you 'd get if you held all the components of the index individually , because index funds sometimes do n't hold exactly every component in the exact right proportions , to reduce trading costs or taxes ( at least in the US ) . Note that when you bought the index fund you may have set it up to reinvest dividends , so you wo n't see the actual cash , but you 're still getting the dividend , it 's just being used to immediately buy more shares . As you say , the exact details depend on the fund , but the above is how the " typical " index fund works . Leveraged index funds are more complex . You may not get any or only a small dividend from them , because they use derivative instruments like options and futures to get the leverage , which do n't pay dividends . However , I have seen funds that leverage the dividend as well , although I do n't know how they manage that .
First suggestion - talk to a State-licensed tax practitioner ( CPA in your state ) , because this can be nasty . As I mentioned in the comments - its a serious offence , and your employer may get in trouble . But the fact that you ( or your boss ) think you were misclassified does n't necessarily make you so . For you it is of course better to be a W2 employee - less FICA . But on the other hand - also less withholding ( probably too late to worry about it now ) , less unemployment compensation , less worker 's compensation , etc. . For employer 1099 is better for the same reasons : they do n't need to pay payroll taxes ( FICA/FUTA/State taxes/insurance/etc ) , less liability and less benefits . That is why such a misclassification is an offence , and a serious one , for the employer . They wo n't admit it unless they have to , and if they have to - they will have to correct . However since its a prior year , some things may be difficult to address properly now and you may be stuck . Its not just a matter of forms . I suggest taking this to a professional consultation . Do n't take tax advice from your boss .
Scenario 1 Only your company can tell you if you can still exercise the options , and under what terms . Part of the agreement to sell a company includes dealing with the employee 's benefits and options . Since the company that gave you the options no longer exists - there 's no default answer , you should check your specific situation . In many cases , in this scenario , options are replaced by the options to the new company , with a new vesting schedule . Scenario 2 In this scenario , you exercised the options before the startup was bought , which effectively made you one of the shareholders selling . Your income will be based on the valuation of the company , and if it is not a publicly traded company - its a fairly complicated matter . You should get a professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) to work on this with your company . When you sell your shares in the buyout by the new owner , you will realize gain which is of course taxed . That would be taxed as capital gain , based on the difference between the valuation you 've been taxed upon , and the sales price . A thing to remember : if you 're exercising the options and keeping the stocks - you may get hit by the AMT . I suggest talking to a professional adviser ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) to plan accordingly .
As AskAboutGadgets notes , there 's no lower age limit . You current age ( 24 ) is a pretty good one ; you 'll have four decades or so for your money to grow and compound , allowing it to become a veritable fortune when you 're ready to retire if you invest it fairly aggressively .
With the information you have given , I would say never . Remember the banker is a salesman , and the line of credit is the product . If you do n't need to borrow the money for something specific , then you do n't need the line of credit in the first place . Even if you did need something I would tell you to save up and pay cash for it . On the tax advantage : There is none , in the US you can deduct your mortgage interest on your taxes but it 's not a tax credit it 's a tax deductions . Let me explain further : You spend $ 10,000 on mortgage interest , and you 're in the 25 % tax bracket . You send the bank $ 10,000 in return you get at tax savings of $ 2500 . You are still in the hole $ 7500 You would have been better off not taking out the loan in the first place . On the Emergency Fund : You should have 3 - 6 months of expenses in cash , like a money market account . This money is n't for investing , it 's like insurance , and you do n't make money on insurance . The last thing you want to do is have to go into debt right in the middle of an emergency . Say you lost your job , the last thing you would want to do is borrow money , right at the time you have no income to pay it back . The bank is under no obligation to maintain you credit limit and can without notice reduce it , they can in most cases call the loan balance due in full with little or no notice as well . Both of those are likely scenarios if the bank were to become aware of the fact that you were unemployed .
Short answer That ratio is a decent approximation of the market cap distribution in VTSMX , although it 's not perfect because the two funds you have access to , VIIIX and VIEIX , overlap somewhat in their holdings . The S&amp;P 500 and the completion index do n't . Using the S&amp;P 500 and the completion index as relative weights gives you ( 14.7 +3.4 ) / 14.7 = 81.2 % and 1-0 .812 = 18.8 % for VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively . We can verify that this is close to the best allocation using either of the two methods below . Based on that , it 's safe to say that an allocation of 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX should replicate VTSMX pretty well . Remember that because of expense ratios ( among other factors ) , the returns to your replicated portfolio may not match the returns to the target portfolio exactly . Long answer According to Morningstar , <URL> has the market cap distribution shown in the first column . Morningstar places VTSMX in the Large Blend category , so the category averages in the right-hand column are for that category . The benchmark index is the <URL> . <URL> and <URL> have these distributions : We want to find allocations for VIIIX and VIEIX , i.e. two percentages that sum to 1 , that give us a portfolio with a market cap distribution as close to that of VTSMX as possible . There are several methods that would work for this ; both return the same solution : Method 1 : Goal-seeking in Excel Using the goal-seek feature of Excel , I found that allocating 80.5712423979149 % of your portfolio to VIIIX and the remainder ( 19.4287576 % ) to VIEX yields this distribution ( shown in the " replicated " column ) , which is pretty close . The second data column is VTSMX , the fund you 're trying to replicate . This gives me the allocation of approximately 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX that I listed in the short answer above . The percent error , which is calculated as the absolute value of the difference between the allocations divided by the allocation in VTSMX , increases as market capitalization decreases , but that should n't bother you . Since allocation decreases as market cap decreases , even though the error grows as market cap decreases , that error represents an increasingly small amount of the fund 's actual value . This is n't a perfect system , because I 'm abusing the notion of " weighted percent errors " a little here , but hopefully the idea is clear . Method 2 : Matrices In this specific case , matrices provide a much more robust , and arguably logical , strategy . From a mathematical perspective , this is the problem we 're trying to solve : where and are the percentage allocations of VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively , that you want in your 401K portfolio . At first glance , it looks like you can simply solve the last equation for and substitute that value into any of the first four equations to solve for ; unfortunately , if you try this strategy with the fourth equation , you get a value of , but if you try this with the third equation , you get . If you try using the value of that came from the fourth equation in any of the other equations ( besides the fifth one , in which it does n't matter ) you 'll find it wo n't work . The same goes for the that came from the third equation , or the second , or the first . It seems we have a problem . All is not lost , however . If you 've ever taken an algebra course , you can see that the system of equations above looks like this matrix equation : I labeled the numerical matrix on the left-hand side of the equation to save space . The linear algebra theory probably is n't exciting to everyone as it is to me , so I 'll keep it short . Since is a 5x2 matrix with <URL> 2 , it therefore has a <URL> , which we can calculate like this : With our left-inverse in hand , we can quickly find the solution to the matrix equation like this : which gives us the same solution that we found with Excel . It 's also important to understand that this is the " best " solution to the problem ; in other words , we have found the weights of VIIIX and VIEIX that replicates the market cap distribution of VTSMX as closely as possible . If you 've ever taken a statistics or econometrics course , you might recognize the calculation and application of the left-inverse as the <URL> estimation of the weights ; that means that in this case , " closest " implies that the weights we found minimize the sum of the squares of the differences ( " errors " or " residuals " ) between our replicated portfolio and VTSMX . While the matrix/OLS method seems more complicated , I include it because it may be much quicker computationally than using Excel if you attempt to replicate a portfolio using more than two funds . The matrix/OLS method also scales very well in situations where more than two funds are used in the replication . Also , in this case , we had the relative weights of the S&amp;P 500 and the Completion Index to use as guides , but once we start adding more funds with potentially more overlapping holdings between them , calculating a simple ratio may not work
There are many factors in your score . In the U.S. the most common factors you will find listed include : Credit Utilization - This is the percentage of credit you have used to what has been extended to you . If I have 2 credit cards , one with a $ 1000 limit and one with a $ 5000 limit then I have $ 6000 of available credit . This percentage is generally considered a very important factor to your credit score . For instance let 's say I have a $ 4000 balance on the $ 5000 card , and a $ 0 balance on the card with the $ 1000 limit . Thus my utilization is 66.67 % , if I close the card with the $ 0 balance , my utilization percentage will then jump to 80 % . This will decrease your score , as you are seen as higher risk . Hard Inquiries - This is how many times your credit report has been pulled due to requesting new credit . These will stay on your report for 2 years , with the highest impact occurring during the first year . Pulling your own credit score does not impact your score ; applying for a new credit card , loan , mortgage , etc. . . will . This is also generally considered a large part of your score . Percent of On-Time payments - This one is pretty explanatory . Do n't pay your bill late , and you wo n't have to worry about any negative impacts to your score . Average Age of Accounts - Take the number of accounts you have , and average up how old they are . While a smaller portion of your score , this is why you will come across all sorts of information about not closing your oldest account , as it will drive this number down . Total number of accounts - I 'm not very certain how this impacts your score . It seems the higher the number the better . I would bet there is some limit where going over would decrease the score , but I am not certain . The more accounts you have maintained a successful relationship helps the lender realize you are less risky . Collections Notices - These can be added by agencies , by having a lien on an account , bankruptcies , etc. . . These stay on your account for a number of years , and will have large effects on your score ( in a negative way ) . What 's worse , is paying them off or certain activities ( in certain cases ) can reset the clock on when they drop off your report .
The All Ords Index consists of the 500 largest companies by market capitalisation listed on the Australia Stock Exchange . Each stock in the All Ords . Index is given a weighting based on its market capitalisation . As the price of the stocks within the All Ords . Index change , so does the points on the index itself . The Index is more sensitive to changes in the larger capitalised stocks due to their larger weighting in the Index . Example : If a company has a weighting of 10 % and its price goes up by 10 % , and all other stocks in the Index do n't go up or down , then this will cause the All Ords Index to go up by 1 % ( 10 % of 10 % ) .
There are a few factors at play here . Depending on the bank that has offered you the card there are different types of overdraft protection that may have been set up . Typically , if they attempt to run the card with no money , if one of these is in play , you will be spared any overdraft fees by the transaction charging to a designated overdraft account , usually savings , or by the transaction failing due to insufficient funds . If you know the transaction went through , and you know there were not enough funds in the account to cover the transactions , then you have a few options . If you have overdraft protection that auto charges insufficient funds charges to a separate account , then you have nothing to worry about . If you do not , most banks offer a grace period where you have until the end of the day to zero out your account , that is to say pay the overdraft amount and bring your balance to at least $ 0 . If this is a charge that occurred in the past , and you have already been charged an overdraft fee , there may still be hope . I can not speak for all banks , but I know that Chase Bank offers a once per year overdraft forgiveness , where they will get rid of the charges if you agree to bring the account out of the negative . There is a chance other banks will do the same if you call their customer service .
Hope springs eternal in the human breast . No actively managed fund has beaten the indices over a long period of time , but over shorter periods , actively managed funds have beaten the indices quite often , sometimes quite spectacularly , and sometimes even for many years in a row . Examples from the past include Fidelity Magellan and Legg Mason Value Trust . So people buy actively managed funds hoping to cash in on such good performance . The difficulty is , of course , that many people do n't even think about investing in a fund until it is listed in some " Top Forty Funds of last year " compilation , and for many funds , they have already peaked , and new buyers are often disappointed . Some people who invested earlier plan on getting out of the fund before the fund falls flat on its face , and fewer even succeed in doing so . As to why 401k plans often have high-cost actively managed funds , there are several reasons . A most important one is that there are numerous companies that act as administrators of 401k programs and these companies put together package deals of 401k programs ( funds , administrative costs etc ) , and small employers perforce have to choose from one of these packages . Second , there are various rules that have come into existence since the first days of 401k ( and 403b ) programs such as the investment choices must include funds of different types , and actively managed funds ( large cap , small cap etc ) are one of the choices that must be offered . Gone are the days when the only choice was a variable annuity offered by the insurance company administering the 401k program . Finally , program participants also have hopes ( cf. opening sentence ) and used to demand that the 401k program offer a few actively managed funds , not just index funds .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
It depends how much risk you 're prepared to accept . The short-term risk-free rate of return at present is something in the vicinity of 0.1 % ( three month US treasuries are currently yielding 0.08 % ) , so anything paying a higher rate on money that 's accessible quickly will involve some degree of risk -- the higher the rate then the higher the risk .
Everyone has made some good points that I was going to mention but to put it in terms that might make it easier to decide . As stated by others , paying off debt and being free is always the goal and desirable . However , you must also consider the " efficiency " of what you do as well . For example , there are two common types of student loans ( there are others but let 's focus on these ) and that is subsidized and unsubsidized . The main difference ? Subsidized loans do n't earn interest on your balance while you are in school , it only happens when you graduate and come out of repayment grace period . Unsubsidized loans begin accumulating interest the moment they are disbursed , but you are not required to make payments on them until you graduate . All student loans are deferred until you graduate and exhaust your grace period or other means of deferring your payment , say for example a postponement or forbearance . However , it is often recommended that on UNSUBSIDIZED loans , you pay down your principle while still in school to avoid that massive interest amount that will get added to it when you are officially in repayment . On the other hand , it is often ( if not always ) recommended that you hold off on paying SUBSIDIZED loans until you are done and go into repayment , as for all intents and purposes its not costing you anything extra to wait . Family and parent loans are considered and treated more like personal loans , so treat them as such . Hope that helps . Also , do n't forget to take advantage of the income based repayment options , as they will make the payments manageable enough to avoid making them a burden while you are trying to get a job and go post education . Further reading : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Need to Purchase Homeowner 's Association Documents ?
You should have access to these documents when they 're published . However , after that - if you did n't keep your own copies , you 'll have to pay for retrieval . Some states ( AZ , for example ) have caps on this , since HOAs are using this as a way to " enrich " themselves from people who sell/buy ( many times its the buyer who pays for this , not the seller ) , but $ 300 sounds about right . Of course it costs much less , but since you do n't have a choice - you 'll pay what they ask . As an owner , you can raise the issue at the next board meeting and ask them to change the fee , but if you already sold by then - then who cares ...
Bad bad bad idea . Properly managed HOA has rules that regulate usage of the common areas and property ; HOA manages repairs and maintenance , insurance and reserve . Not having HOA means the owners deal with problems on their own , as the problems appear . Need to fix the roof ? Assessment . Need to paint the walls - assessment . The roofer fell and broke a leg - liability suit . Huuuuuge assessment . You really want to deal with that ?
Part 2 first : resale is exempt <URL> The new homes is a little messier <URL> goes into some detail . Effectively if the home is $ 400,000 or less , then a government rebate should offset the HST , to effectively be back to where you would have been with the old RST ( Retail Sales Tax ) . Excruciating details are <URL>
Having seen the process of reporting and dealing with stolen checks I would pay the fee and , very truthfully , I would do everything in my power to avoid getting checks at all . Many of the banks now offer online interfaces that allow you to provide the payee information and they will send a printed check on your behalf , which is much much safer . If someone steals a book of your checks multiple things have to be done and the process is ongoing and painful . This is by no means a complete list , but it shows how painful this can be . Close the bank account ( And change and direct deposit or autopay setups ) Report to ChexSystems ( reporting agency for checking accounts ) Fill out a fraud report for every stolen check that gets used Fill out a fraud report for every bad check of someone else 's that gets logged against your account We closed the bank account within 15 minutes of the checks being stolen and still multiple checks got through , both written directly against the account as well as the thieves cashing other people 's stolen checks against the account since they new the account number . Several times they were able to do this within the bank , even though the account had already been closed so it 's a major problem if your checks disappear , and if you do n't have a way to track them then you 'll be very late in realizing that they 're stolen . Additionally this bank ( not sure if this is common with others ) insisted on paying the stolen money back into the closed account , instead of into a new account . This allowed the thieves to steal the same money several times over , forcing us through the weeks long process of reporting the fraud and dealing with the bank 's fraud investigators again .
If your current property is valued at $ 270K and you currently have a mortgage of $ 200k , then your equity in the current property is $ 70K or 25.9 % This means that your LVR is about 74 % . So since your current LVR is below 80 % you do n't pay any LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) . If you were looking to buy another property worth approximately $ 300K you would need to have more than $ 114K in equity ( I say more because you would have to include the extra required for closing costs - including Stamp Duty if required and conveyancing costs in addition to the $ 114K ) to keep your LVR to 80 % or below and avoiding LMI . ( 20 % of $ 570K = $ 114K ) . So if you want to avoid paying LMI you will need an additional $ 50K or so at least . Even if you went for a LVR of 95 % on the new property you would still need $ 69K plus closing costs , so you are still a bit short . You would also have to pay LMI on the new mortgage and you would be taking on a lot of extra risk , especially if interest rates rise ( as they are likely to in 12 to 18 months time ) , you lost your job or some other emergency came up . You are better off waiting some time before purchasing a second property , allowing your equity to grow further and for you to save up a bit more . You may want to open up an offset account linked to your loan account ( if you have n't already ) so that any additional savings you have in the offset account reduces the interest payable on your mortgage . When you are ready to purchase a second property allow an additional 2-3 % in your serviceability calculations on top of the mortgage interest rates you get , so that you do n't get into trouble when interest rates do go up , or if you are on a fixed rate , when your fixed period ends and the variable at the time is higher than your fixed rate .
Banks have a financial , and regulational duty called " <URL> " , established to avoid a number of historical problems occurring again , such as money laundering , terrorism financing , fraud , etc. . Thanks to the scale , and scope of the problem ( millions of customers , billions of transactions a day ) , the way they 're handling this usually involves fuzzy logics matching , looking for irregular patterns , problem escalation , and other warning signs . When exceeding some pre-set limit , these signal clues are then filtered , and passed on for human inspection . Needless to say , these algorithms are not perfect , although , thanks to financial pressure , they are improving . In order to understand why your trading account has been suspended , it 's useful to look at the incentives : false positives - suspending your trade , and assuming you guilty until proven otherwise - could cost them merely your LTV ( lifetime value of customer - how much your business brings in as profit ) ; while false negatives - not catching you while engaging in activities listed above - might cost them multi-month investigations , penalties , and court . Ultimately , this is n't against you . I 've been with the bank for 15 years and the money in the accounts has been very slowly accumulated via direct-deposit paychecks over that time . From this I gather the most likely explanation , is that you 've hit somekind of account threshold , that the average credit-happy customers usually do not exceed , which triggered a routine checkup . How do you deal with it ? <URL> There is only one way to survive angry customers emotionally : you have to realize that they 're not angry at you ; they 're angry at your business , and you just happen to be a convenient representative of that business . And since they 're treating you like a puppet , an iconic stand-in for the real business , you need to treat yourself as a puppet , too . Pretend you 're a puppeteer . The customer is yelling at the puppet . They 're not yelling at you . They 're angry with the puppet . Your job is to figure out , " gosh , what can I make the puppet say that will make this person a happy customer ? " In an investigation case , go with boredom : The puppet does n't care , have no feelings , and is eternally patient . Figure out what are the most likely words that will have the matter " mentally resolved " from the investigator 's point of view , tell them what they have to hear , and you 'll have case closed in no time . Hope this helps .
My friend and tax-crush Kay Bell wrote an article that addressed this very well at <URL> . ( The short answer is yes , you most likely can . Read the article for full details . )
The short answer , per the IRS , is <URL> . Whether the IRS will come after you , whether you should renounce your US citizenship or what the Republicans will do , I ca n't answer . If you 're really concerned with the question of legality , I 'd recommend to talk to an international tax lawyer . ( As an aside , if you do decide to file you can simply request an ITIN number , no need for SSN and passport - follow the link from the above linked article )
I have been a private tutor on and off for about 30 years , in three countries , so I understand your concerns ! I always kept records as though it was a real business - even if I only had one student I kept records of dates/times/names , and also tracked where the money went ( I never spent it straight up - it always got deposited to complete the paper trail ; yes , this is paranoia on my part ) . I 've never been asked to prove anything with regards this income ( although I have no Canadian experience ) . It 's always been a case of tell the tax folks and make sure my arse is covered if they come asking questions . Hope this helps .
Here 's an easy 2 question test : ( 1 ) Is there anyone who relies on your income for their general welfare ? ( 2 ) Is it worth the premium amount to you to make sure they are n't left out in the cold ? If you can answer yes to both questions , buy ( term ) life insurance .
This entirely depends on the individual store 's policies . In general , stores are not required to accept returns at all . So when they do accept returns , they can put any conditions they want on them . In the past , the original receipt was the only record of a sale . When you returned the item , they would write on the original receipt , so that it could not be used again to return the same item . They would not accept photocopies ( or digital pictures ) because there was no way to validate them . Many stores now keep a complete record of every sale in a database . Those stores do n't need an original receipt . They can simply look up the number from your photo of the receipt and validate it . Once you return the item , the receipt is marked in the database so that it can not be used for a return again . Not every store allows this , however . You 'll need to ask the stores you shop at to find out what their return policies are .
As @duffbeer703 mentioned , it really depends on the type of loan . But you might not know what type of loan you will eligible for : unsecured versus secured ? personal versus debt consolidation ? line of credit versus home improvement ? You WILL know whether you are applying for boat loan versus a home mortgage though ! What will help your chances of being approved ? If possible , make an appointment in advance with a loan officer ! That 's better than just walking in . ( It might increase your chances of being perceived as a responsible , valued bank customer . ) Focus on the purpose of the loan . Let the bank representative tell you what your options are . If you are told that you do n't qualify , ask if there is something else that they could suggest . It might mean paying a higher rate of interest , or using some other asset or account as collateral for a secured loan . It is up to you whether you want to do that . Depends on your situation , urgency of need , trade-off 's . Documents to bring with Start by looking at the bank 's website . See if there are any suggestions there , for document req 's . If that is n't helpful , call on the telephone . Say that you want to speak to a loan officer . Mention any accounts or other existing relationship you have with the bank . Then describe as best you can what type of loan you want , the purpose ( to buy a house , boat , car , repay student loans at lower interest rate etc ) . You 'll need some combination of the following : Proof of ID which in the United States , ( was in the question tag ) , would be a picture ID . A driver 's license or state ID card is good . If you do n't have those , then a U.S. Passport or military ID . Social security number ( but not necessarily the card ) Prior year 's tax returns , other financial account statements ( or account numbers if with the same bank ) Pay stubs or something that shows income . Also , when you make the appointment or call , you may be told to bring title on property , vehicle , credit card statement , student loan docs . It all depends on the type of loan . Good luck , hope you get what you want !
You do n't generally pay capital gains taxes until you sell the stock . If you bought it in 2013 and the price goes up in 2014 but you just hold on to the stock , you wo n't have to pay any taxes on it . If you then sold it in 2015 for a profit , you 'd have to pay capital gains taxes on the profit . Note that this excludes dividends . Dividends may complicate the matter somewhat . I 'm also assuming you are in the U.S. or Canada , or a country like one of those two . It 's possible some other country does taxes differently , though it 'd surprise me .
They use an amortization table like can be found <URL> . The Forumula is not that complex where : A = payment Amount per period P = initial Principal ( loan amount ) r = interest rate per period n = total number of payments or periods You will need to add 50 to the A to account for the payment fee amount though .
For personal investing , and speculative / highly risky securities ( " wasting assets " , which is exactly what options are ) , it is better to think in terms of sunk costs . Do n't chase this trade , trying to make your money back . You should minimize your loss . Unwind the position now , while there is still some remaining value in those call options , and take a short-term loss . Or , you could try this . Let 's say you own an exchange traded call option on a listed stock ( very general case ) . I do n't know how much time remains before the option 's expiration date . Be that as it may , I could suggest this to effect a " recovery " . Do n't sell your call options , AND , If available in sufficient quantity , borrow and sell the underlying security that the call option was written on ( short sell it ) . You 'll be long the call and short the stock . This is called a delta hedge , as you would be delta trading the stock . Delta refers to short-term price volatility . In other words , you 'll short a single large block of the stock , then buy shares , in small increments , whenever the market drops slightly , on an intra-day basis . When the market price of the stock rises incrementally , you 'll sell a few shares . Back and forth , in response to short-term market price moves , while maintaining a static " hedge ratio " . As your original call option gets closer to maturity , roll it over into the next available contract , either one-month , or preferably three-month , time to expiration . If you do n't want to , or ca n't , borrow the underlying stock to short , you could do a synthetic short . A synthetic short is a combination of a long put and a short call , whose pay-off replicates the short stock payoff . I personally would never purchase an unhedged option or warrant . But since that is what you own right now , you have two choices : Get out , or dig in deeper , with the realization that you are doing a lot of work just to trade your way back to a net zero P&amp;L . * While you can make a profit using this sort of strategy , I 'm not certain if that is within the scope of the money.stachexchange.com website .
To start trading at a minimum you need 3 things ; Bank Account : This again is not must , but most preferred to transact . Quite a few broker would insist on this . Demat Account : This is must as all shares on NSE are held electronically . The custodians are CSDL or NSDL both Government entities . These do n't offer services directly to customer , but via other financial institutions like Banks and Large Brokers . Broker Account : This is required to buy or sell securities . If you are only buying in IPO , this is not required as one can directly participate in IPO and Broker is not involved . However if you want to buy and sell on NSE you would need a broker account . Quite a few financial institutes offer all 3 services or 2 services [ Demat/Broker ] . The fee structure and online service etc are differentiators . You can take a look at options and decide the best one to use .
No , this is not generally possible , as each security purchase is booked as a separate order = > hence separate transaction . You can do this through purchasing of a fund , i.e. : purchasing one share of a ETF will get you a relative share of the ETF holdings , but the actual holdings are not up to you then .
Most likely " a letter from the doctor " may be requested if this is the first time you are filing . You may also need paperwork related to the adoption itself , so that the IRS can verify the child is your legal dependent . Generally you should expect a delay in receiving any refund you are due , as the IRS will generally request information from you before finishing your return . This is not an audit - but they will still need certain requested paperwork and some additional time to process your return before issuing any money . Generally the IRS will not want any documents sent in advance ( with your return ) , but your case is somewhat complex because of the amount of different issues involved - adoption , disability , etc. . You may qualify for a range of different credits and special tax situations , such as the <URL> and the <URL> . I would strongly encourage you to have a planning session with a tax professional - not just a regular tax preparer , preferably one with experience with complex situations like this - as there are many thousands of dollars of tax credits , incentives , and potential penalties involved . This does n't need to be a high-stress situation and you might have a few very nice tax years , but it 's always better to get the filings right the first time and have paperwork ready in advance - as you are obviously already trying to do ! One final word of warning : be careful about issues related to the year of filing and claiming of credits/expenses . As noted in topic 607 ( linked above regarding adoption ) , what year you can claim things varies on multiple factors ( foreign vs domestic adoption , when expenses were paid , when the adoption was completed , etc. ) . There may be some things you can claim on this years return ( taxes related to last year ) , and there is some you might not be able to claim until next year ( taxes related to this current year ) . You 'll need to read all the fine print closely to make sure you claim things appropriately , and again a qualified professional may be warranted if available to you . I tend to prefer to file my own taxes with tax software to assist , but be prepared for a lot of IRS publication reading if you want to make sure you handle everything appropriately ! Most importantly : congratulations on a successful adoption , and good luck ! You 're already doing a great job by trying to get all your ducks in a row in advance of when you really need to , which is a very wise choice .
Purchase loans tend to be more challenging to get the best possible rate , because you have to balance closing the loan and getting the contract . So there is n't as much time to shop around as when you do a refinance . I disagree with the sentiment to go with your local bank . Nothing wrong with asking at your local bank and using their numbers as a baseline , but chances are they wo n't be competitive . There are many reputable online mortgage originators that will show accurate fees and rates upfront assuming you provide accurate information . In the past there were a lot of issue with Good Faith Estimates being pretty much worthless . There were a fair number of horror stories about people showing up to closing and finding out fee or rates had increased dramatically . There was a law passed after the housing debacle that severely limits the shenanigans that lenders can do at closing and so there is less risk when going with a lesser known lender . In fact I would say the only real risk with a lender now days is choosing one that happens to be overloaded and or just has poor customer service in general . Personally I have found the most competitive rates from Zillow 's mortgage service and the now defunct Google mortgage . The lenders tend to be smaller , but highly efficient . They are very much dependent on their online reputations . I have heard good things about a number of larger online lenders , but I do n't have personal experience so I will leave them off . I personally would n't worry much about whether the loan is sold or not . Outside of refinancing I do n't think I have ever talked to the bank servicing my mortgage about my mortgage . There just is n't much need to talk to them .
Each merchant is assigned a category , and all the purchases through that merchant fall into that category . If a merchant qualifies for more than one category ( e.g. : Costco &amp; Costco Gas ) , then for different purchases the merchant will use different merchant ID 's . These codes are called " <URL> " , and the merchant fees are also decided based on the category assigned to the merchant ( the same merchant with several codes will pay higher fees on some codes than the others ) . You can see the purchase categories on your credit card purchases regardless of whether you get rewards or not , this information is usually available through your statement or on-line .
end question
start question
How to use my IRA as a 60 day loan ?
No , that 's the idea behind the 60 day rule . The 60 days is from the day of withdrawal to day of deposit . I 'd suggest you go 59 , and not risk some odd personal situation cause you to miss the date . Yes , a big yes , it can not go into the account it came from . Then both accounts ca n't be touched for a year . Yes . I am away , and at the moment ca n't tell you the exact form . I 'd invite one of my collegues to edit this line . No , this is unrelated . As I commented , there 's confusion on withholding . The 20 % pertains to 401 ( k ) accounts , not IRAs .
You can convert additional amounts from Traditional IRA to Roth IRA as often as you want . What there is a limit on , is " reconversion " -- if you convert to Roth IRA , then recharacterize it back to Traditional IRA ( undoing the conversion ) , then you are restricted from " re-converting " that money to Roth IRA again in the 30 days after the recharacterization or during the same tax year as the original conversion .
Banks do often allow their lian officers some room to negotiate on major loans like mortgages , but even then it 's usually fractions of a percent . I do n't think they would be making enough profit on an auto loan to negotiate much , and it 's likely to be closer to 0.1 % than 1 % ... but you can certainly ask as part of the process of shopping around for the best rate .
Between half a year and a year should be enough to improve your interest rates drastically on car loan refinance . Make sure that your new credit card has already been reported to the agencies , and that the credit/debt ratio is lower than 30 % on your revolving ( credit card ) accounts . That also means that you should n't carry too much balance , even if the APR is 0 % .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
It depends . For 2012 the phaseout range for deducting an IRA contribution when you are covered by a retirement plan at work are as follows : For single filers : $ 58,000 to $ 68,000 For head of household filers : $ 58,000 to $ 68,000 For married couples filing jointly : $ 92,000 to $ 112,000 For married couples filing separately : $ 0 to $ 10,000 Unfortunately , ' covered ' is n't qualified by any minimum time .
In short as Victor mentioned , the rates for a pair of currency vary from Bank to Bank . Banks also give special rates if the amount to be converted is large . Unless you are receiving large amounts , hopping / shopping will not help . If you are getting paid in USD , i.e. that is what is agreed between you and your client , then the client 's bank would be doing the conversion . You are your Bank have no say in this . If you have agreed to get paid in the local currency of your client , then depending on the currency it may still get converted by the sending Bank or in-between . Say for example you are to get paid in Indonesian Rupiah IDR , the client 's Bank or its Correspondent would convert this into USD as IDR does n't get settled . If you are getting say GBP or EUR , then yes the conversion would typically be done by your bank . However it typically takes 2-4 days SWIFT Wire transfers , i.e. from the time your client initiates the transfers to the time it reaches your Bank . And no you ca n't go shopping after the Wire has arrived . If you want to do it before then unless the amounts involved are large , no Bank would commit a rate to you .
Get another envelope for " items purchased online . " When you make a purchase online , pull out the equivalent amount of money from the proper envelope ( household , gifts , entertainment , etc. ) and put that money into the " items purchased online " envelope . ( The amount grows as you purchase things , which is opposite of the other envelopes , which get spent down as you purchase things . ) Then , the next time you fund your envelopes , withdraw the difference of what you have in your " items purchased online " envelope , and then add that to what 's in the " items purchased online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as you normally do . Example : Let 's say you buy $ 25 in DVDs from Amazon and $ 85 in clothing from Kohls.com . You 'd take $ 25 out of your Entertainment envelope , and $ 85 from your Clothing envelope , and put that $ 110 in your " items purchased online " envelope . ( The rest are cash purchases . ) If you fund your envelopes with $ 500 each period , then you 'd withdraw $ 390 ( $ 500 - $ 110 ) , empty the " online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as usual . Now your " online " envelope is zero again , and you rinse and repeat .
I 've tried Mint , and I 've tried Quicken . Now , I think Quicken is an annoying , crashy little piece of software , but it is also quite capable ; overall I think it has the features you want . You can enter your bills , broken down by category , in advance . You can enter your paychecks , broken down by category ( gross income , federal income tax , state income tax , social security , SDI , transfers to tax-protected 401 ( k ) account , etc ) in advance . You can enter in your stock trades and it can tell you how much you 'll need to end up paying in capital gains taxes . You can even enter in your stock option vesting schedule in advance ( it 's a royal pain because you ca n't go back and change anything without deleting everything , but you can do it ) . It 'll forecast your bank account balance in all of your bank accounts in advance with a shiny chart . It 'll even model your loans , if you set it up right . I did n't do too much with the " budgeting " tools per se , but the account-balances-daily features sound like the closest thing to what you 're looking for that 's likely to exist . The only thing that 's a trifle tricky is that transfers from one account to another may take multiple days ( hello , ACH ) and you 'll have to decide whether to record them at departure or arrival .
" I have money to invest . Where should I put it ? " Anyone who answers with " Give it to me , I 'll invest it for you , do n't worry . " needs to be avoided . If your financial advisor gives you this line or equivalent , fire him/her and find another . Before you think about where you should put your money , learn about investing . Take courses , read books , consume blogs and videos on investing in stocks , businesses , real estate , and precious metals . Learn what the risks and rewards are for each , and make an informed decision based on what you learned . Find differing opinions on each type of investment and come to your own conclusions for each . I for example , do not understand stocks , and so do not seriously work the stock market . Mutual funds make money for the folks selling them whether or not the price goes up or down . You assume all the risk while the mutual fund advisor gets the reward . If you find a mutual fund advisor who can not recommend the purchase of a product he does n't sell , he 's not an advisor , he 's a salesman . Investing in business requires you either to intimately understand businesses and how to fund them , or to hire someone who can make an objective evaluation for you . Again this requires training . I have no such training , and avoid investing in businesses . Investing in real estate also requires you to know what to look for in a property that produces cash flow or capital gains . I took a course , read some books , gained experience and have a knowledgeable team at my disposal so my wins are greater than my losses . Do not be fooled by people telling you that higher risk means higher reward . Risks that you understand and have a detailed plan to mitigate are not risks . It is possible to have higher reward without increasing risk . Again , do your own research . The richest people in the world do not own mutual funds or IRAs or RRSPs or TFSAs , they do their own research and invest in the things I mentioned above .
The prime question is can you afford to pay a higher amount ? Pay more than the minimum will pay the loan off quicker but there are two near term implications : Your monthly expenses just went up . The good news is that if you have a big expense , like braces , in the future you can stop making the extra payment . Then resume them when you have more money available . It will impact your taxes . Because your interest expenses will be decreasing quicker than expected , the amount of interest you deduct will also decrease . That might not be a big impact , but you should be aware of it when doing your withholding calculations . Remember that the extra payments do n't work like a bank account . It takes months/years off the length of the loan . It does n't let you skip a payment . You ca n't ask for the extra money back , they would call that a home equity loan . If you decide to do it , make sure the payment is really paying off principal , and not treated as an early payment . Most people do this by paying with an extra check/transfer and specifying that it should reduce principal . Do n't pay anybody/company to setup a biweekly payment plan for you . It does get you 13 monthly payments a year , but you can do this without their help . In some cases they have turned out to be a scam , who pocketed payments and caused defaults .
Your instructor 's numbers do not seem to have any basis in current reality . At <URL> you can see a comparison of interest rates offered by banks and credit unions . In the most recent table for June 2014 , banks paid an average interest rate of 0.12 percent on savings accounts , while credit unions paid an average of 0.13 percent . If you look back further , you will see that interest rates paid by banks and credit unions are generally comparable . Credit union rates tend to be a little bit higher , but certainly not 7 times higher . The last time any financial institution paid as much as 15 % on a savings account would probably be the early 1980s . You can see <URL> a historical chart of the " prime rate " for lending . Savings account rates ( at either banks or credit unions ) would typically be lower . ( This is based on the US , in accordance with your tag . Interest rates in other places , especially developing countries with less stable currencies , can be dramatically different . )
Great , your friend is well-off , and simply wants to have you hold the mortgage in your name . Here are a few of the problems/risks that I can think of : Since you have good credit , how/why does this help your credit ? Does your friend want joint title ? Does your friend want you to have life insurance on the mortgage held with joint title ? Should the real-estate market fail and the property lose value , your friend could bail , and you would be left paying for a property you can not sell . Can you pay the mortgage if your friend can not , or will not ? Are you willing to own this house if the deal goes bad ? Will your friend obtain your SSN ( or equivalent ) ? Whose name is the property title to ? Can you sell unilaterally should problems arise ? Who puts down money for purchase , and repairs ? Who makes the payments ? What if your friend forgets , or can not pay payment ( cash flow problems ) ? Will your friend deposit N payments in advance to ensure payments are timely ? Does friend provide funds for down-payment , reserve funds for rehab ? What is your extraction plan if you get stuck with a lemon ? A truck hits your friend ( death , illness ) , how do you complete the rehab and sale ? A truck hits you ( death/illness ) , how does your friend complete the rehab and sale ? Do you trust him/her ? Does he/she trust you ? Could the IRS consider this tax evasion ? Could the authorities consider this money laundering ? Could the authorities consider this bank fraud ? One strategy to make outsized returns on your investments is to use leverage . Leverage is to use OPM ( Other People 's Money ) to expand the amount of assets you can purchase . Perhaps you invest 10 % of your money , and borrow 90 % . When the asset increases in price by 10 % , you have doubled your money . Here is a specific example . You invest $ 20K to buy a $ 200K property ( invest 10 % , borrow 90 % ) , and sell the asset later for $ 250K , but you pay $ 10K for the use of the 90 % . The asset made $ 50K , a 25 % gain . But you made $ 40K on your $ 20K investment , a 200 % gain on your original investment ! Awesome ! But the other $ 180K only returned $ 10K , about 4.5 % . So you earned 200 % and the other party earned less than 5 % on a deal that was worth 25 % total gain . Suppose this is the deal your friend offers . You are at risk for the 90 % , and he is at risk for the 10 % , but your friend is offering you the 5 % gain to his 200 % gain . Your friend is screwing you royally . What you are missing is that you are providing most of the money for the deal . You are borrowing the money , but you are still agreeing to repay the debt , so you are providing the majority of the money , the OPM , the leverage . You are carrying the majority of the risk . And you are gaining the minority of the reward . Think of it this way - what if you were not getting a mortgage , but investing your own cash - would you be happy with the small part of the return ? The funny/sad part is that your friend does realize he is using you for leverage , but does not even consider how lopsided the deal , and that he is taking advantage of you . Fix the deal : You provide 90 % of the purchase , your friend provides 10 % , you sell and pay costs out of the proceeds . You get 90 % of the return , your friend gets 10 % . But the deal does n't happen . Because then your friend does not get the leverage , and rather than 200 % , must settle for 25 % . And really , your exposure is much less than the entire mortgage . Pragmatically , you are only risking about 20-30 % of the mortgage , so you should get about 2/3 to 3/4 of the gains , while your friend gets 1/3 to 1/4 , and probably only gets about a 100 % to 130 % return on his investment .
Deposits are contributions . You deposit say , $ 5000 , and over time you have $ 6000 . The $ 5000 can be withdrawn any time with no issue . It 's tracked via <URL> . With this in mind , I wrote an article <URL> , suggesting that since one can withdraw deposits with no issue , the Roth can be used to hold emergency money .
You can , but for incomes less than $ 58K you can also use <URL> . I 'm guessing IRS assumed that people would prefer to use software if they can , rather than raw forms . I would assume the same .
The answer is in <URL> on page 17 On IRS Form 8606 you may enter the non deductible amount on line 1 of the form . The <URL> for <URL> state on page 5 : Taking the deduction is optional if you qualify for the deduction .
<URL> is an excellent article on the 7-Day yield and how to calculate the interest you would receive . So if you invested $ 1000 for 30 days : ( 0.0001 * $ 1000 ) / 365 ~ = $ 0.000274 per day . Multiply by 30 days to yield $ 0.008 in interest .
Could the individual [ directly ] use the credit cards for the down-payment ? No , not directly . Indirectly , either via Cash Advance or " Balance Transfer " to a bank account with a promotional rate could work , however you may have to show the money sitting in a bank account and ready to go before the loan will be approved , which means the money you took out on the credit cards will show up when they pull your credit ( unless you somehow timed it perfectly , and even if you did that you 'd be breaking the law by lying on the disclosure statement about your current debts . ) If he could , are there any negative consequences from doing so ( other than probable high monthly payments on the cards ) ? Definitely . Let 's assume we 're talking about the indirect method of cash advance or balance transfer , since that is actually possible . There are 3 things to compare : You have saved up enough money for a ( hopefully hefty ) down payment without taking out any additional loans . This is obviously ideal and should always be the goal . You do not have enough money for a down payment and simply do n't buy a house right now . You do not have enough money for a down payment , so you take out other loans so that you can buy a house right now . The main negative consequence of doing this is simply that you ca n't afford the house right now , but for some reason you are buying it anyway . I 'm not one to judge ; there are contrived reasons where this could be justified ( your trust fund comes due soon , your big inheritance is still locked up in probate , your guaranteed bonus is coming soon , etc ) , but in general , if you think you can pay off the CC debt in the near future , then you 're most likely better off waiting until you have the money cash in hand . Final thought : Most of the time the rate you pay on a non-mortgage loan will be higher than that of the mortgage , and furthermore mortgage interest is oftentimes tax deductible , so it would rarely ever make sense to shift would-be mortgage debt into another type of loan , down payment or otherwise .
" I really want us to succeed and I 'm going to work my butt off in order to make that happen . In order to make sure our interests are completely aligned , is there some way that I could receive part of my compensation as equity ? I realize this has a higher risk for me since I 'd be receiving less cash in the form of salary up front , but I believe in our business and I 'm willing to take this risk . I want to make a bet on this company doing extremely well because of the hard work that I 'm putting into it . "
You do n't have many choices I am afraid . There is really only one option available to you at present and that is Folio-fn . It is a secondary market for p2p lending where you can buy and sell notes from both Lending Club and Prosper . Links are below : Lending Club : <URL> Prosper : <URL> Good luck . Hopefully Ohio will be added to the list of states that offer p2p lending some time soon .
end question
start question
I have about 20 000 usd . How can invest them to do good in the world ?
Vanguard has a <URL> . Their web page says " Some individuals choose investments based on social and personal beliefs . For this type of investor , we have offered Vanguard FTSE Social Index Fund since 2000 . This low-cost fund seeks to track a benchmark of large - and mid-capitalization stocks that have been screened for certain social , human rights , and environmental criteria . In addition to stock market volatility , one of the fund 's other key risks is that this socially conscious approach may produce returns that diverge from those of the broad market . " It looks like it would meet the qualifications you require , plus Vanguard funds usually have very low fees .
The easiest way is most likely to simply visit the bank in person . Bring proof of your identity ( passport , driver 's license , national photo ID card , or whatever else happens to be most viable in your particular case ) , walk up to the counter and simply tell them that you forgot your account number and need them to tell you what it is . With a very high degree of likelihood they will be able to help you out right then and there , and if they ca n't because of some regulation ( government-imposed or company-specific ) , then they will tell you exactly what more they need from you . If you want to , you certainly can call the bank and ask what documentation they will need before going to the branch office yourself , and there is always the possibility that you can call them and ask them to send you some type of customer summary which will include this information , but they almost certainly wo n't be able to simply give you the account number over the phone because you most likely do n't have any way to prove to them over the phone that you are who you claim to be with regards to your account . So likely the best you can hope to get out of a phone call is to be told what sort of documentation you need to bring with you when you visit the branch office , or if you are lucky that they will agree to physically mail the information to you .
What is your investing goal ? And what do you mean by investing ? Do you necessarily mean investing in the stock market or are you just looking to grow your money ? Also , will you be able to add to that amount on a regular basis going forward ? If you are just looking for a way to get $ 100 into the stock market , your best option may be <URL> . ( DRIP stands for Dividend Re-Investment Plan . ) The idea is that you buy shares in a company ( typically directly from the company ) and then the money from the dividends are automatically used to buy additional fractional shares . Most DRIP plans also allow you to invest additional on a monthly basis ( even fractional shares ) . The advantages of this approach for you is that many DRIP plans have small upfront requirements . I just looked up Coca-cola 's and they have a $ 500 minimum , but they will reduce the requirement to $ 50 if you continue investing $ 50/month . The fees for DRIP plans also generally fairly small which is going to be important to you as if you take a traditional broker approach too large a percentage of your money will be going to commissions . Other stock DRIP plans may have lower monthly requirements , but do n't make your decision on which stock to buy based on who has the lowest minimum : you only want a stock that is going to grow in value . They primary disadvantages of this approach is that you will be investing in a only a single stock ( I do n't believe that can get started with a mutual fund or ETF with $ 100 ) , you will be fairly committed to that stock , and you will be taking a long term investing approach . The Motley Fool investing website also has some information on DRIP plans : <URL> . It 's a fairly old article , but I imagine that many of the links still work and the principles still apply If you are looking for a more medium term or balanced investment , I would advise just opening an online savings account . If you can grow that to $ 500 or $ 1,000 you will have more options available to you . Even though savings accounts do n't pay significant interest right now , they can still help you grow your money by helping you segregate your money and make regular deposits into savings .
While I 've never used Wall Street Survivor , I took a look over the marketing materials and I 've seen multiple similar contests run among investment interns also just out of college . I see some good here and some bad . First off , I love interactive web-based tutorials . I 've used one to learn the syntax of a new programming language and I find the instant feedback and the ability to work at your own pace very useful . The reviews seem to say that Wall Street Survivor is a good way to learn the basics of how trading stocks works and the lingo . Also , it seems pretty fun which <URL> . Wall Street Survivor will hopefully teach you that there are many real stock markets and that they may have somewhat different prices and they likely take the real and timely data from a single market . Wall Street Survivor also frightens me . The big problem that I see with interns running similar contests is that the market is extremely random over short to medium periods of time . An intern can make an awful portfolio or even pick stocks at random and still win the contest . These interns know a lot about the randomness in markets already so they do n't believe they are trading geniuses because they won a contest , I 'm not sure there is much to temper this view on this web-site . Also , while Wall Street Survivor teaches you about trading it does n't appear to teach you about investing . The website appears to encourage short term views and <URL> and does n't seem to simulate the full trading costs ( including fees ) that would eat away at the gains of a individual investor that trades that much . It gives some help with longer term thinking like diversification , but also seems to encourage trading that makes Wall Street Survivor more money , but are likely detrimental to the user . I would say have fun with Wall Street Survivor . Let it teach you some things about trading , but do n't give the site much if any money . At the same time , pick up a copy of short book called " <URL> " and start learning about investing at the same time . Feel free to come back to Stack Exchange with questions along the way .
If you 're referring to investment hedging , then you should diversify into things that would profit if expected event hit . For example alternative energy sources would benefit greatly from increased evidence of global warming , or the onset of peak oil . Preparing for calamities that would render the stock market inaccessible , the answer is quite different . Simply own more of things that people would want than you need . A list of possibilities would include : Non perishable food ( canned , dried , or otherwise ) Weapons and ammunition Medical supplies Hand tools Precious metals are also a way to secure value outside the financial markets , but would not be readily sellable until the immediate calamity had passed . All this should be balanced on an honest evaluation of the risks , including the risk of nothing happening . I 've heard of people not saving for retirement because they do n't expect the financial markets to be available then , but that 's not a risk I 'm willing to take .
Gold has specific properties that make it more useful than most metals for monetary and decorative purposes : It 's extremely unreactive , so it does n't corrode , rust , or otherwise tarnish . So gold , once pure , stays that way , unless alloyed . It 's very difficult to dissolve gold with acids - aqua regia , formed by mixing nitric acid and hydrochloric acid , must be used to dissolve gold ( or platinum ) . It 's easily identified because it 's both extremely dense - almost twice as dense as lead - and unusually soft - my understanding is that the mythological bite test for gold coins actually works , although is rather hard on the teeth . It is one of the most if not the most malleable and ductile metal . This means it is relatively easy to work , not prone to cracking , can be bent , formed , or pounded flat , and is resistant to ' work hardening ' . The combination of the above makes it highly useful to produce shiny intricately-crafted objects that last . It was easily mined , and often found in a pure or near-pure state ( i.e. not an oxide ) both freely available in rivers and in seams found in mines . It 's rare , which means that possessing it becomes a signal of social capital , which itself increases its value . Gold seems to have been recoverable by ancient peoples in a way that , for example , platinum was not ; uses of gold abound throughout history , while uses of platinum before 1500 or so are rare . This would seem to add gold 's advantage as a display of wealth , since you need to actually know you 're looking at a rare material .
Instead of restricting yourself on a geographical basis , I would consider two markets that seem to fit the bill based on your question : <URL> : the four major countries in this category are the BRICS group - Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa . Growth is aggressive when the going is good but volatility tends to be high as well . <URL> : includes countries like Argentina and Bangladesh where the potential is high but the market is not as liquid and investment opportunities are not as easy to find ( relative to emerging markets ) . Once you 've decided on your risk appetite , I would consider using an ETF to buy in to these markets : <URL> <URL>
Let me start by giving you a snippet of a report that will floor you . Beat the market ? Investors lag the market by so much that many call the industry a scam . <URL> This is the 2015 year end data from a report titled Quantitive Analysis of Investor Behavior by a firm , Dalbar . It boggles the mind that the disparity could be this bad . A mix of stocks and bonds over 30 years should average 8.5 % or so . Take out fees , and even 7.5 % would be the result I expect . The average investor return was less than half of this . Jack Bogle , founder of Vanguard , and considered the father of the index fund , was ridiculed . A pamphlet I got from Vanguard decades ago quoted fund managers as saying that " indexing is a path to mediocrity . " Fortunately , I was a numbers guy , read all I could that Jack wrote and got most of that 10.35 % , less .05 , down to .02 % over the years . To answer the question : psychology . People are easily scammed as they want to believe they can beat the market . Or that they 'll somehow find a fund that does it for them . I 'm tempted to say ignorance or some other hint at lack of intelligence , but that would be unfair to the professionals , all of which were scammed by Madoff . Individual funds may not be scams , but investors are partly to blame , buy high , sell low , and you get the results above , I dare say , an investor claiming to use index funds might not fare much better than the 3.66 % 30 year return above , if they follow that path , buying high , selling low . Edit - I am adding this line to be clear - My conclusion , if any , is that the huge disparity can not be attributed to management , a 6.7 % lag from the S&amp;P return to what the average investor sees likely comes from bad trading . To the comments by Dave , we have a manager that consistently beats the market over any 2-3 year period . You have been with him 30 years and are clearly smiling about your relationship and investing decision . Yet , he still has flows in and out . People buy at the top when reading how good he is , and selling right after a 30 % drop even when he actually beat by dropping just 22 % . By getting in and out , he has a set of clients with a 30 year record of 6 % returns , while you have just over 11 % . This paragraph speaks to the behavior of the investor , not managed vs indexed .
Biggest drawback : if you fail to pay the credit cards immediately you may get zapped with more interest than you could recover in points . There 's also the question of whether the dealer accepts credit cards ; they may not . Find that out first , then if you still want to do this consider prepaying into the credit card account so you ca n't miss that payment .
I did receive TurboTax 's automatically generated confirmation of successfully completing tax filing electronically the day I did my tax on their web site . About 24 to 48 hours after you push the button at TurboTax the IRS should either confirm or reject the initial check of the tax documents . You should return to the TurboTax website to make sure the IRS has accepted the reutrn . Next review either the confirmation you received when you pushed the button or the information at the TurboTax site . It should specify when the money would be withdrawn . You were given options regarding payment method and date you want to make the payment . Many people who finish their tax paperwork early , but owe money wait until the last day to submit . Now it is possible to submit paperwork early but specify a date just before the deadline . Print out or even better save an electronic copy of the information at the TurboTax website . I have no idea how long it takes the IRS to actually pull the money from an account , once the day you specified has occurred . You have to plan as if the withdraw will happen on the exact date , but with millions of tax payers making transactions it may be delayed by a day or two .
A Budget is different for every person . There are families making $ 40K/yr who will budget to spend it all . But a family making $ 100K of course will have a different set of spending limits for most items . My own approach is to start by tracking every cent . Keep a notebook for a time , 3 months minimum . Note , for homeowners , a full year is what it takes to capture the seasonal expenses . This approach with help you see where the money is going , and adjust accordingly . The typical goal is to spend less than you make , saving X % for retirement , etc. . The most important aspect is to analyze how much money is getting spent on wasteful items . The $ 5 coffee , the $ 10 lunch , the $ 5 - $ 7 magazines , etc. . One can decide the $ 5 coffee is a social event done with a friend , and that 's fine , so long as it 's a mindful decision . I 've watched the person in front of me at the supermarket put 4 magazines down on the counter . If she has $ 20 to burn , that 's her choice . See <URL> for other responses .
After visiting the Finanzamt at the beginning of May 2014 , it is important to notice that foreigners ( or even Germans ) that have married abroad of Germany need to notice the Burgeramt in first place while bringing the correct papers ( officially translated to German ) . After noticing the Burgeramt , both spouses get immediately ( and automatically ) tax classes 4/4 . It is also Burgeramt who notice Finanzamt and the employers in the end . After that the spouses can apply for a tax class change at Finanzamt personally ( which then notifies the employers ) . I have also heard that after switching to 3/5 or 5/3 ( from default 4/4 ) this switch has to be repeated each year ( but have no idea whether this is true or not ) .
From <URL> A frontier market is a type of developing country which is more developed than the least developing countries , but too small to be generally considered an emerging market . The term is an economic term which was coined by International Finance Corporation 's Farida Khambata in 1992 . The term is commonly used to describe the equity markets of the smaller and less accessible , but still " investable " , countries of the developing world . The frontier , or pre-emerging equity markets are typically pursued by investors seeking high , long-run return potential as well as low correlations with other markets . Some frontier market countries were emerging markets in the past , but have regressed to frontier status . Investopedia has a <URL> on Emerging Vs Frontier While frontier market investments certainly come with some substantial risks , they also may post the kind of returns that emerging markets did during the 1990s and early 2000s . The frontier market contains anywhere from one-fifth to one-third of the world 's population and includes several exponentially growing economies . The other Question and are they a good option as well ? This depends on risk appetite and your current investment profile . If you have already invested in domestic markets with a well diversified portfolio and have also invested in emerging markets , you can then think of expanding your portfolio into these .
Quite a few stock broker in India offer to trade in US markets via tie-up brokers in US . As an Indian citizen , there are limits as to how much FX you can buy , generally very large , should be an issue . The profits will be taxed in US as well as India [ you can claim relief under DTAA ]
Not ATM , because for that your friend would need your ATM card , but yes in person in the branch . If you can have someone who knows your account number come in to a Chase branch with the check - they 'll be able to deposit it for you . edit A reminder - the check must be endorsed by you or be " for deposit only " .
All the gory details are available <URL> . More specifically your personal limit will be listed on you last tax assessment notice , that you would have received last April-ish when you filed last year 's taxes . As a first approximation , your situation may differ , if you have never contributed anything , your limit is likely $ 15,000 ( as the program has been running three years as of 2011 ) .
For the last few years around 2,500 metric tonnes of gold have been produced each year . This is on top of existing supply of 160,000 metric tonnes . Existing yearly production is around 1.5 % of the existing supply . Charts from <URL> .
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
Short answer : yes . Long answer : you have to check with Desjardins if you can buy other funds using their broker , but if not you can just open another RRSP account with a better broker who gives you this option . You can open an many RRSPs as you wish . If you are really unhappy with Desjardins , you can then transfer your money from there to your new broker without being exposed to tax . <URL>
Using Fundamental and Technical Analysis together is actually a good idea for longer term trading of up to 6 months or longer . The whole idea behind trading with Technical Analysis is to increase the probabilities of a trade going in the desired direction by using uncorrelated indicators that produce the same signal to buy or sell at the same time . For example , you might use a Moving Average ( MA ) as a buy signal when the price falls for a few days , hits the MA and then reverses and starts moving back up . If however , you also include a Stochastic Oscillator ( SO ) to indicate when the stock is oversold ( under 20 % ) , and if the price rebounds from the MA average at the same time as the Stochastic is crossing over in the oversold position , then this may be a higher probability trade . If you also only trade stocks that are Fundamentally healthy ( as fundamentally good stocks are more likely to go up than fundamentally bad stocks ) then this might increase the probabilities again . Then if you only buy when the market as a whole is moving up , then this will increase your chances again . A few weeks ago at a seminar , the presenter totalled the men in the room to be 76 and the women in the room to be 8 . He then asked what will most likely be the next person to walk in the room - a man or a woman ? The statistics are on the side of a wan walking in next . This is what we try to do with Technical Analysis , increase our chances when we take a trade . Of course a woman could be the next person to walk in the room , just like any trade can go against you , and this is why we use money management and risk management and take a small loss when a trade does go against you . Lets look at an example where you could incorporate FA with TA to increase your chances of profits : <URL> Above is a candlestick chart of Select Harvest ( SHV ) , the green line above the price is the perceived value , the pink line is the 40 day MA , the blue line is the EPS , and the white lines is the Stochastic Oscillator ( above 80 % being overbought and below 20 % is oversold ) . From Feb 2015 to start of Aug 2015 the stock was uptrending , since then the price reversed and started to downtrend . The stock was determined to be fundamentally good early in 2015 with the perceived value gradually increasing and greater than the share price , and the EPS starting to increase regularly from mid April . Thus , as the stock is seen as fundamentally healthy any price reversal in the vicinity of the MA could be seen as a buy opportunity . In fact there where 2 such opportunities on 31st March and 11th June where price had reversed and rebounded off the MA whist the SO crossed over in or near the oversold area . The price did reverse and then rebounded off the MA again on 9th July , however the SO was not in or near the oversold area on this occasion , so not as high in probability terms . The price still rebounded and went up again , however another momentum indicator ( not shown here ) shows some bearish divergence in this case - so another reason to possibly keep away at this point in time . A good signal to get out of the trade , that is your stop loss has not already taken you out , is when the price breaks and closes below the MA line . This occurred on 7th August . So if we had bought on the first signal on 31st March for $ 7.41 and sold when the priced broke through the MA on 7th August for $ 11.76 , we would have made a profit of approx . 59 % in just over 4 months . If bought on the second signal on 11th June for $ 9.98 and again sold on 7th August for $ 11.76 , we would have made about 18 % in under 2 months . So the fundamentals , the Price ( in relation to MA ) and the SO where all lining up to provide two high probability trades . Of course you would need to incorporate you risk management ( including stops ) in case the price did not continue upwards after you bought . If the market is also moving up on the day of the signal this will further increase your chances . Unless you day trade , which I would avoid , a good way to enter your trades after a signal is to enter a stop buy order after market close to buy if the price moves above the high of the signal day . That way if the market and the stock open and move lower during the day after the signal you avoid entering the trade altogether . This can be incorporated as part of your risk management and trading rules . After the price broke down through the MA we can see that a downtrend commenced which is still current today ( in fact I just took a short trade on this stock yesterday ) . We can also see that the perceived value , whilst still above the price , has reached a peak and is currently moving downwards and the EPS after being flat for a few months has just moved down for the first time in 10 months . So maybe the fundamentals are starting to waver a bit on this stock . It may be a good stock to continue shorting into the future . So basically you can continue using Fundamental Analysis to select which stocks to buy , place them in a watch-lis
end question
start question
How do I determine how much I can afford for a car ?
A car is a big purchase . I recommend spending only as much as you need to fulfill your transportation needs . For you , it sounds like you need basic transportation and reliability , and want to spend as close to $ 10k AUD as possible . You 're on the right track . New cars drop in value rapidly , so while a new car is probably out of the question with that budget , you can do quite well in a used car , and you wo n't need a loan . <URL> has good suggestions based on budget and reliability of used cars . ( It 's a U.S. site , so just adjust for kilometers and AUD ) . Just make sure the car is either checked by a mechanic ( if you buy private-party ) or certified/warranted by a dealer . With ~ $ 10-12k AUD , you 're looking at something like a ~ 2007 model year Civic , Fit , or Focus , or an older Prius , all which have good used cars scores . Maybe set $ 15k as your max budget if you are comfortable with that amount ? Oh , and nice job saving $ 500-700 each week . With that mindset , I do n't think you need to worry about maintenance , insurance , etc. . You 'll be able to afford it .
You really should be able to avoid bank charges entirely . If you 're paying for a checking account , know that there are ones available for free , even without a minimum balance . Same goes for credit cards . There are plenty of no-annual-fee cards out there , so unless you 're getting fabulous rewards that make it worth it , never pay an annual fee . Avoid ATM fees by avoiding the ATM , getting cash back at stores or taking it out at the bank . Overdraft fees and other penalties can be avoided by keeping an eye on your balances and keeping a register . Take advantage of email or text notifications that many banks offer when your account balance goes below a certain amount , or your credit card gets close to its maximum . And I agree with MrChrister that many fees will be refunded if you 've made a one-time mistake . Talk with a customer service rep , apologize , emphasize that you have a good record of on-time payments , and ask if the fee can be taken off your account .
This is a state by state thing , and I 'm cheating because I know you are in New York State : You need a <URL> . You do n't have to incorporate ( LLC , etc ) for this , but it is not your SSN . You need to get a <URL> for the state . When you purchase items for resale in NY State , you can give them a <URL> to prove you are tax-exempt . When you sell your items , you need to charge sales tax to residents of NY . ( This is wildly complicated because the rates change for EVERY county , and sometimes even sub counties , in NY - use their <URL> ) .
I do not meet your qualifications but this is what I would do : 1 ) Save an amount that can replace your bike and accessories if it is stolen . Do n't touch it for anything but that . 2 ) Compute an average monthly cost for maintenance items , double that for a couple of months until you have the account built up , then budget that amount every month . If your bike/headlight/front tire , get stolen or broken beyond repair , take it out of the first account . Then your savings priority should be to rebuild that account . I would be a bit alarmed if you have to keep hitting this account for legitimate reasons . When a tire goes flat , or other normal wear and tear item occurs , take it out of the second account . This account should fluctuate regularly , and it is normal . During certain months you may want to increase this amount ( more glass on the street because of outdoor events means more flat tires ) . The same kind of thing holds true for a car . Putting numbers to some figures would help . I think the most alarming thing about your post is that a theft is somewhat ordinary . Yikes !
I made an appointment with and visited the <URL> . This is what I was told : I should contact the employer and ask them to fix this . If contacting the employer is not possible or not successful , I should submit a <URL> detailing the situation and providing all relevant details . The SS-8 is separate from the tax return ; it is not something that is sent along with it . The IRS will investigate the matter , which will include contacting the employer . The employer could be fined if , for example , it is determined that the employer knowingly misreported this income . The SS-8 investigation could take several months . In the meantime , <URL> on my current return . Given that an extension is an extension to file and not an extension to pay ( and since I do owe taxes separate from this matter ) , re-do my tax return ( for my own information ) as if this income had been properly reported , so that I can determine my actual tax liability . Go ahead and send a check for that amount . Alternatively , I could go ahead and file my tax return now , in parallel with the SS-8 . I would need to report the 1099-MISC exactly as received and pay the full amount owed based on the incorrect 1099-MISC . Once the SS-8 investigation is complete , I would receive a refund ( with interest ) for any overpayment .
There is a thing called the consumer price index ( CPI ) There is a basket of goods that the people who keep the index basically shop for . It is much more detailed for the sake of accuracy , but bottom line is they shop for the same stuff each year . They measure the difference from year to year and that gives you a pretty good idea of inflation from a regular person point of view . <URL> But it is n't without its faults , people bicker about the methodology and what constitutes the index . <URL>
Yes , you can get cash for the accident . I was in exactly the same scenario and got an insurance payout for a repair I did not want to make . The risk you are taking is that there is more damage than readily apparent . For example , if you let the insurance company repair the car , this is a typical scenario : Initial estimate is $ 1000 Insurance pays $ 1000 Take car to get it fixed . Discover $ 500 more damage Insurance company will now cover that additional $ 500 . Decide based on the damage and estimates if it 's worth taking the risk of having damage missing from the estimate . In my case it was worth the risk .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
The best thing you can do is shop around , and tell your current company that you 're shopping . I had been with GEICO for years and recently discovered ( while shopping for renter 's insurance ) that AllState offered the same coverage for a few hundred dollars less . When I called GEICO to cancel , they offered me an additional discount ( for being a member of a credit union ) that I had n't received before . I still switched , but was sad that I had n't been getting that extra discount just because I never asked if there were other discounts I might qualify for . This <URL> by ChristianPF talks about some changes you can make to reduce auto insurance costs .
Many car dealers have zero percent interest deals at various times of the year . Generally these are only available to customers that have excellent credit and are generally shorter term . Less qualified buyers can get loans with higher rates and longer periods . These 0 % dealer loans tend to be for 2 or 3 years not the 5 years loans many consumers want . Therefore the monthly payments are large . Almost always the better deal , i.e. lower monthly payments , is to take to rebate from a dealer , and go to a regular bank or credit union for the loan . When comparing a loan for the same number of months the biggest driver of the monthly payment is the loan amount , not the interest rate The biggest hurdles to paying for a car via a credit card is having enough of a credit limit , and convincing the dealer to accept the card . Many wo n't accept a credit card for the entire purchase . Keep in mind that many credit cards only have the introductory 0 % rates for a limited period of time . It is also easy to mess up the payment , and have the rate reset to 18-24 percent . If the short payment period of the teaser rate runs out , you will have to find another card that will allow a balance transfer to their teaser rate program .
Typically in GnuCash , account balances that exist at the beginning of the time you 're keeping records for are balanced by entries in an Equity account " Equity : Opening Balances " , which is part of the default set of accounts created for you . This account is really just a placeholder so that everything balances , and that 's perfectly normal . So , just enter " Equity : Opening Balances " as the " other entry " when entering the first , opening balance , transaction in your Liability account for the loan . If you have not already created the liability account , then just use the " Opening Balance " tab of the New Account window to enter the initial balance as you create the account . ( Disclaimer : I have no formal knowledge of accounting ; I just use GnuCash and read the users ' mailing list . )
<URL> and <URL> on the ATO website provide some information on tax rates . They 're rather lengthy and there 's a few exceptions , but essentially , your entire foreign income , even if held overseas , is taxable . Australians are taxed worldwide .
An answer to this question <URL> discusses how to redeposit money accidentally withdrawn . The link to <URL> in the answer also includes this FAQ : What if I contribute into my HSA more than my yearly limit allows ? If nothing is done about this excess contribution then there will be an excise tax of 6 percent assessed by the IRS . You are able to avoid this penalty as long as you distribute the excess before the tax filing deadline including any extensions . Any of our many America First branches can help you fill out the appropriate paperwork to get this taken care of so you avoid this tax . contact the institution where the funds are deposited and ask for help reversing the deposit .
Almost any financial institution has the technical ability to do this ( simply called sweeps , auto sweeps , or deposit sweeps ) ; the issue you face is finding an institution that is willing to do it for you . I think you will have the most luck at your primary financial institution where you currently keep the majority of your banking relationship . You will have better luck at small-town banks and credit unions . The mega banks will likely not waver from their established policies . Deposit sweeps are common for business accounts . They are usually tied to a savings account , which is usually held within the same institution , however this is not a requirement . The sweep can send money to any US bank if you can provide the routing number and account number . The sweep will establish a peg balance , or floor balance , on the checking account . At the end of the day , any amount above the peg is swept into the savings account automatically . I doubt you will find what you 're asking for within an online banking system . You will likely have to go into a branch and speak with a personal banker . Explain to them you want to establish a sweep on your checking account and want to send the funds to another financial institution . You will have better luck asking for a peg of $ 100 , or some other small amount . They may not take your request seriously if you want to completely empty the checking account to zero .
It generally does n't matter since the Government guarantees accounts at most banks . Just make sure it is FDIC insured ( or NCUA if it is a credit union ) and you will be fine even if the bank goes insolvent . In any event , I 'd strongly suggest joining a credit union instead of a bank . The fees are much lower and I 've found them much more customer service oriented . As to the morons who caused the bank mess , you may be in trouble there . I 'd argue that Gov ' t policies were probably more to blame for that than banks . Regardless of fault , and even during the worst of that mess there was never any hint that anyone 's bank accounts were at risk . The problem was that a lot of people had loans they could n't afford to pay because there was too much incentive to make risky loans and not enough downside to the banks originating the loans when those loans went predictably bad .
There are certain companies that will let you pay a flat fee per month instead of billing you for consumption . You should call your providers and ask them if they have such an option available ; this way budgeting will be easy . :)
It really depends on the exact wording of that zero rate offer . Some specifically state they are to be used for paying other debt . Others will have wording such as " pay other debt or write yourself a check to pay for that next vacation , or new furniture . " Sorry , it 's back on you to check this out in advance .
Depends upon where you are in the United States but I 've heard everything not tipping them in the case of a fairly straightforward move to up to $ 50 per mover if they are outstanding in terms of performance or you have an especially complex move for some reason . In the New England area the rule of thumb seems to be that you should have some sort of beverage ( i.e. water , soda , etc ) on hand to offer them while they are loading and unloading the truck or packing and then once the move is complete to tip them between $ 20 and $ 50 per person . In general though , avoid giving them a tip as a percentage of the cost of the move and give the tip directly to each person as opposed to the foreman to be split among the movers .
Lots of ecommerce stores will do the calculation for you based on real rates from the major shippers in the United States . I used to write such shopping carts , and we did exactly like you are asking , take the individual weights , times the number of items , packed into X number of boxes and sent that information to UPS , FedEx , USPS and for a while DHL and Canada Post . They then used the store owner 's account number to return a set of rates based on the shipping services available ( for example , you ca n't ship ground to Hawaii from California ) If you do n't have real time shipping available in your shopping cart , <URL> as your max , then take a bit off . You make money on things that are close to you and lose money on things far away , and hopefully it comes out in the wash . Finally , as a method of selling , incorporate the shipping cost into the price of your item and offer Free Shipping as a way to increase traffic to your site . It seems to be a popular technique .
It 's an asset if you can sell it or if it provides cash flow . For example , if you own a house , the house is an asset , even if you have a mortgage , because you can sell it . If you rent your home from someone else , it 's not an asset , because you do n't own it and ca n't sell it . Stocks , cars that you own ( not lease ) , cash , checking and savings accounts , precious metals , collectibles , and so on are assets . Liabilities are debts ; that is , what you owe . So , for example , liabilities include : balances on mortgages , student loans , credit cards , other loans , any tax or judgment debts , and so on .
end question
start question
Given a MCIR routing number , how does one find the " fractional routing number " ?
The fractional number goes like this : XX-YYYY/ZZZZ . ZZZZ is the first 4 digits of your routing number ( you can skip the leading zeroes ) . YYYY is the next 4 digits of your routing number ( the last , 9th digit , is control digit ) . XX is the city/state where the bank is located ( I believe its based on the original HQ , I know that for WF in California its 11 , which is San Francisco ) . You can find the full list on <URL> , once the blackout is over ( in the mean time - call your Congressman and voice your objections to <URL> ) . Best would be to get an existing check , and copy from it . You can also use <URL> , which will give you the bank address given the routing number , and based on the address you can deduce the value for XX . For 051000017 it should be 68 , for Virginia . So on your checks should appear " 68-1/510 " By the way - I deposited checks without the fractional routing number , and they were cashed perfectly fine . I do n't think its required any longer , and for automatic processing you only need the MCIR .
Expected this to be a bit easier than it was , but dug around for a while and found what I hope is deep enough answer for your situation . Here 's the live report on NASDAQ 's site : <URL> Top 5 Holders FMR LLC 15,335,005 CAPITAL RESEARC ... 12,730,080 PRICE T ROWE AS ... 10,054,346 VANGUARD GROUP ... 9,220,692 STATE STREET CO. . . 8,476,124 You can page almost endlessly through the rest of the institutional owners here : <URL> Insider Control Note Larry , Sergei &amp; Eric Schmidt together own > 90 % of the Class B shares of the stock , which have 10 votes each ( vs. 1 vote per Class A share ) , so they apparently control 68 % of all voting rights in the company ( think I read that in their latest 10Q ) Freshness Looks like that report is actually refreshed ( via SEC Form 4 filings ) on a daily basis , w / the baselines taken from quarterly 13F filings - not sure , that 's all new to me , took that from description offered on site , here : " The data displayed in the Holdings Summary provides a snapshot of institutional holdings and activity for a particular stock . The institutional holdings summary data encompasses the holdings and change from most recent 13F filings . The insider filer data counts the number of monthly positions over 3 month and 12 month time spans . Summary data is calculated daily , using the most up to date information available . " Further Info While the report 's on NASDAQ.com , it 's apparently sourced from EDGAR Online , so if the depth/formatting of the NASDAQ report is n't what you 're looking for , you might try that too .
You can understand the solution like this : The first year 's savings , compounded at 5 % for three years are : The second year 's savings , increased by % , compounded for two years are : The third year 's savings , increased again by % , with one year 's growth at 5 % are : You can solve the total for by using the <URL> : <URL> <URL> To solve this type of calculation in the general case The summation of the above calculation can be written like so : <URL> This is the general form . It can be used for a calculation over any number of years : <URL> The general form can be converted to a formula for by <URL> : <URL> The equation can not be expressed as a formula for but it can be used to solve for by plotting or using a solver . <URL> Using Excel 's solver add-in . <URL>
There is no simple way to convert an ISIN into a stock ticker symbol . The only way to even attempt to do so is to map the ISIN to a CUSIP or SEDOL or other national identifier and then map that identifier to a stock ticker symbol .
The effect of making a single purchase , of size and timing described , would not cause market disequilibrium , it would only hurt you ( and your P&amp;L ) . As @littleadv said , you would be unlikely to get your order filled . There would n't be anyone to take the other side of your trade , There would n't be enough shares available at short notice , as a block . You asked about making a " sudden " purchase . Let 's say you placed the order and were willing to accept a series of partial fills e.g. in 5,000 or 10,000 share increments at a time , over a period of hours . This would be a more moderate approach . Even spread out over the span of a day , this remains unwise . You 'll alert the few market participants in that stock that you have a large interest in buying . You 'll probably drive up the price of the stock , due to basic supply and demand for available shares . You 'll create the perception of a " story " or other change in fundamentals about the company , and expectations of share price appreciation in the near future . Even if it is true , you 'll overpay , or possibly not be able to buy it at all , as existing shareholders wo n't want to sell if they think there is a chance for profit-taking . A better approach would be to buy small lots over the course of a week or month . But your transaction fees would increase . Investors make money in pink sheets and penny stocks due to increases in share price of 100 % ( on the low end ) , with a relatively small number of shares . It is n't feasible to earn speculator profits by purchasing huge blocks ( relative to number of shares outstanding ) of stock priced < $ 1.00 USD and profit from merely 25 % price increases on large volume .
Cheapest is one thing . You can absolutely shop in the market and find the lowest possible price . I can think of three places to shop , each with an up and downside . I would think that what you really mean is the best price for the service . Just like shopping for a car you have to decide what you need vs what is nice to have . How To Shop Decide what features you need . Do you need long distance ? Do you need caller id ? Do you need to call technophobic friends and family ? Find out what you have available to you through associations . Often schools , work or a club you belong to have deals for service discounts . Look at your insurance plan or AAA membership for the crazy discounts . Decide what kinds of service will meet your needs . Buy the cheapest service . DO NOT ENTER A CONTRACT . Even if the price is slightly lower . At least not at first . If you try out your service and love it , enter the contract if and only if the total price measured over length of the contract is less . With cell phones especially , it is absolutely possible to save money buying month to month vs a 2 year contract . Even when you buy equipment for full price up front . Services to Consider Call the current phone provider Ask for the bare minimum service from your local phone company . Because phone companies are often regulated monopolies , they might have a bare minimum level of service they are required to offer by the municipality . They probably do n't advertise it or push it , but it might exist if you call and ask . You basically get a dial tone . <URL> The base level plan is as cheap as you can get from a telco You have a wire service that works in a power outtage Emergency services are designed to work with wirelines , so they work best with wirelines Price is dictated by a government board , so you do n't have to worry about shopping for deals Not the cheapest possible solution Long distance is not included No extra features like call waiting , caller id or voicemail are not included Go cellular only This is popular plan the youth oriented market , but more and more people of all demographics are using their cellphones only . There are downsides ( 911 , etc ) and shopping for the best cell phone plan can be a full time job , but it does offer a way to save money by simply not having home phone service . One phone number that works everywhere you are Long distance included Voicemail , caller id and other extras often included Easy to shop ( albeit tedious ) for better or cheaper service on a whim Easy to find non-contract providers Might be possible to score organizational discounts through work or groups you belong to Cellphones require batteries , and can go dead ( not good for emergencies ) Emergency services are far less precise in locating you , if they can at all ( even in your home ) A bad cell phone plan can be prohibitively expensive Contracts could be offered , and contracts are not usually a great thing Use a VOIP provider Voice over Internet Protocol uses your existing Internet connection . You can buy a cheap regular phone and plug it into the VOIP box and use it like any other phone . VOIP can either be very inexpensive for all the features you get , or just plain inexpensive . There are providers who sell a monthly service , yearly service or no service plan at all . ( You buy a device and get service as long as you own the device . ) Taxes to the government are always due , so nothing is ever free . Sometimes the provider is just computer software , so a minimalist would like that . Some VOIP providers use computers to make the sound quality great Behaves just like a home phone , but typically have many more features As the newest competitor in the market , VOIP providers are cheap You can take your hardware anywhere there is an internet connection and have your phone number with you ( like a vacation , or child away at college ) Emergency services are more reliable than cellular ( if you follow extra steps to set them up ) Can be confusing to buy . Some require contracts , some special devices , some require a bit of technical know how to setup . Be sure to evaluate the total cost of ownership when comparing prices Can be bundled by other service providers , and that probably is n't as good a deal as it sounds No power ? No phone service ( even if your phone does n't require power itself ) Internet down ? Phone is down
Now that you have a Social Security Number , if you want Bank of America to start reporting to your credit report so that you can establish a credit history , you 'll need to contact Bank of America and ask them to attach your Social Security Number to your account . It might be easiest to do this in person : bring your Social Security card into a Bank of America branch and see if they can help you . Some sources online for more reading : UScreditcardguide.com : <URL> ( Read " Conclusions " section at the end . ) Quora.com : <URL> Dreamact.info forum : <URL>
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
Your mother-in-law might consider a home-repair policy that covers all of the major systems ( HVAC , Water heater , plumbing , garage doors , perhaps even appliances ) . She would buy this policy to reduce the risk of a large expense not handled by monthly cash-flow . She might do this because she has a fixed income , and does not have an emergency fund , in the same way a landlord at a single family home might want to avoid cash-flow risks . The cost of the policy is certain to be higher than the actuarial cost ( cost of claim x probability of claim during insured time period ) of repair/replacement of a failed system , as the insurer would need to cover sales costs , operating expenses and profit in addition to the direct policy cost of system replacement . The value to the insured is the predictability of the premium payment . Insurance only makes sense for large and unpredictable expenses ( unexpected , major medical bills , death or debilitating injury , other unforseen and large loss ) . You would not insure for elective/cosmetic surgery ( large , predictable ) , haircuts ( small , predictable ) , or lost keys ( small , unpredictable ) Note : some people use AAA to insure against the inconveniences of lost keys , flat tires , and dead batteries Note : some people buy extended auto repair warranties , cell phone warranties , and extended warranties on consumer goods , to mitigate the inconveniences of these unpredictable events . Insurance is based upon information advantage . An insurer uses actuarial knowledge ( claims history , statistical models ) to predict claims , and then prices the policy to ensure premiums exceed risk plus costs and profit . Should an insured to have better knowledge of claim probability , they would only buy coverage near to their needed claim instance . Thus , an insurer constructs their policy to prevent purchasing a policy only when the protection is needed . This is why many economists believe insurance is a flawed product , demanding unequal information .
For a company listed on NASDAQ , the numbers are published <URL> . The most recent settlement date was 4/30/2013 , and you can see that it lists 27.5 million shares as held short . NASDAQ gets these numbers from FINRA member firms , which are required to submit them to the exchange <URL> : Each FINRA member firm is required to report its " total " short interest positions in all customer and proprietary accounts in NASDAQ-listed securities twice a month . These reports are used to calculate short interest in NASDAQ stocks . FINRA member firms are required to report their short positions as of settlement on ( 1 ) the 15th of each month , or the preceding business day if the 15th is not a business day , and ( 2 ) as of settlement on the last business day of the month . * The reports must be filed by the second business day after the reporting settlement date . FINRA compiles the short interest data and provides it for publication on the 8th business day after the reporting settlement date .
Basically the idea is you put the exact amount of cash into each envelope and set those aside for a specific purpose . Then when you go to accomplish that specific purpose such as grocery shopping or whatever , you take the corresponding envelope and use only the money that is inside . It is sort of a way to train yourself to follow budgets very strictly . Many people stand by this method and it really is as simple as the website you linked to . As far as tracking , this method really does n't track anything aside from what you note down about where the money is going . Others have moved on to using ING sub accounts to do the same thing but in a digital form .
Because an equity option can be constructed at essentially any price by two willing counterparties on an exchange , there are not enough ISINs to represent the entire ( i.e. infinite ) option chain for even a single stock on a single expiration date . As a result , ISINs are not generated for each individual possible options contract . Instead the ISIN is used only to refer to the " underlying " symbol , and a separate formula is used to refer to the specific option contract for that symbol : So that code you pasted is not an ISIN but rather the standard US equity option naming scheme that you need to provide in addition to the ISIN when talking to your broker . Note that ISINs and formulas for referring to option contracts in other countries can behave quite differently . Also , there are many countries and markets that do n't need ISINs because the products in question only exist on a single exchange . In those cases the exchange is pretty much free to make up whatever ID scheme it wants . P.S. . Now I 'm curious how option chains are identified for strike prices above $ 99,999 . I looked up the only stock I can think of that trades above that price ( <URL> ) , but it does n't seem to have an option chain ( or at least Google does n't show it ) ...
If you know what bank your parents used , call them and ask . ( Or you might have to go there and show id ) . Chances are if such an account exists , it would be at the same bank . You can also search for unclaimed property . <URL> .
Credit utilization ( and therefore , your credit score ) is n't impacted by one 's mortgage . I have a current mortgage and saw a zero utilization the one month that I paid my credit cards in full just before the bill was cut . What will change is your borrowing ability . Your debt to income will drop and the payment you used to make will be available to service a future debt if you wish . Note - obviously , a regularly paid on time mortgage helps one 's score and late payments will hurt . I am addressing just the ' utilization ' portion which is what i think the OP is asking . The credit report , strangely enough , does not take income into account . The focus instead is on utilization .
So My question is if I purchased the shares on 03-08-15 then will I get the dividend ? Yes if you purchase on 3-Aug , the shares will actually get credited to your account on 5-Aug and hence you will hold the shares on 6-Aug , the record date .
HSAs are very similar to IRAs . Any investment returns grow tax-deferred and once you reach age 59 1/2 65 , you can withdraw the funds for any purpose ( subject to ordinary income tax ) , just like a traditional IRA . If you can afford to do so , I would recommend you to pay medical expenses out-of-pocket and let the funds in your HSA accumulate and grow . In general , the best way to allocate your funds is in the following order : Contribute to a 401 ( k ) if your employer matches funds at a substantial rate Pay off high-interest debt ( 8 % of more in current environment in 2011 ) Contribute to an IRA ( traditional or Roth ) Contribute to an HSA Contribute to a 401 ( k ) without the benefit of employer matching One advantage of HSAs versus IRAs is that you do n't have to have earned income ( salary or self-employment income ) in order to contribute . If you derive income solely from rents , interest or dividends , you can contribute the maximum amount ( $ 3,050 for individuals in 2011 ) and get a full deduction from your income ( Of course , you will need to maintain a high-deductible health plan in order to qualify ) . One downside of HSAs is the lack of competitively priced providers . Wells Fargo offers HSAs for free , but only allows you to keep your funds in cash , earning a very measly interest rate , or invest them in rather mediocre and expensive Wells Fargo mutual funds . Vanguard , known for its low-fee investment options , provides HSAs through a partner company , but the account maintenance charges are still quite high . Overall , HSAs are a worthwhile option as part of your investment plan .
JoeTapayer has good advice here . I would like to add my notes . If they give a 50 % match that means you are getting a 50 % return on investment ( ROI ) immediately . I do not know of a way to get a better guaranteed ROI . Next , when investing you need to determine what kind of investor you are . I would suggest you make yourself more literate in investments , as I suggest to anyone , but there are basic things you want to look for . If your primary worry is loss of your prinicipal , go for <URL> . This means that you are willing to accept a reduced expected ROI in exchange for lower volatility ( risk of loss of <URL> ) . This does not mean you have a 100 % safe investment as the last market issues have shown , but in general you are better protected . The fidelity investments should give you some information as to volatility or if they deem the investments conservative . Conservative investments are normally made up of trading <URL> , which have the lowest ROI in general but are the most secure . You can also invest in <URL> , although stock is inherently riskier . It is pointed out in comments that stocks always outperform bonds in the long term , and this has been true over the last 100 years . I am just suggesting ways you can protect yourself against market downturns . When the market is doing very well bonds will not give you the return your friends are seeing . I am just trying to give you a basic idea of what to look for when you pick your investments , nothing can replace a solid investment adviser and <URL> .
First and foremost you need to be aware of what you are comparing . In this case , HSBC as traded on the NYSE exchange is not common shares , but an <URL> ( American Depository Receipt ) with a 5:1 ratio from the actual shares . So for most intents and purposes owning one ADR is like owning five common shares . But for special events like dividends , there may be other considerations , such as the depository bank ( the institution that created the ADR ) may take a percentage . Further , given that some people , accounts or institutions may be required to invest in a given country or not , there may be some permanent price dislocation between the shares and the ADR , which can further lead to discrepancies which are then highlighted by the seeming difference in dividends .
This is in the balance sheet , but the info is not usually that detailed . It is safe to assume that at least some portion of the cash/cash equivalents will be in liquid bonds . You may find more specific details in the company SEC filings ( annual reports etc ) .
<URL> will work as DumbCoder states , but did n't contain LEHMQ ( Lehman Brother 's holding company ) . You can use Yahoo for companies that have declared bankruptcy , such as Lehman Brothers : <URL> but you have to know the symbol of the holding company .
end question
start question
Increasing PE ratio good or bad ?
PE in isolation does not tell anything . A higher PE as mentioned by oldergod just means that the market is believing that this company will do good in future
Short answer Your student loan payments are reported at the amount you currently pay . Specifically , your payments affect your back-end debt-to-income ratio , which is the ratio of what you pay to service all of your debts to your gross income . The amount you would be paying were you not on an IBR is n't relevant . Long answer Your <URL> is the monthly ratio of what you pay to service your debts to your gross income . Specifically , there are <URL> , and they differ based on which debt payments they incorporate . Housing ratio/front-end ratio - The percentage of your income that goes towards housing costs . If you 're a renter , these housing costs include your rent . If you 're a homeowner , these housing costs include mortgage payments , both principal and interest , taxes , insurance , etc. . Utilities are not included . Total ratio/back-end ratio - The percentage of your income that goes towards paying the cost of all your debts . This ratio includes the housing costs included in the front-end ratio , as well as all recurring debt payments , e.g. car loans , student loans , credit cards , housing costs of other properties you own , etc. . The student loan payments you currently make affect the back-end debt-to-income ratio . You 'll probably need to provide documentation from your student loan provider that shows you 're on an income-based repayment plan ; otherwise , your payments might look lower than another loan provider might expect ( since IBR plans usually have lower payments because you need to show a certain level of financial hardship to qualify ) . The situation is more complicated if you have deferred student loans and you 're applying for a home loan . Depending on the loan program you 're applying for , some programs will use a percentage of the outstanding debt as a projected student loan payment , while others will ignore your loans if they 're deferred for more than the first year of the mortgage . Conventional loan providers may use any of these methods to estimate your future monthly payments .
The most basic way of determining whether a specific fund is a dud or not is to compare it to a correponding ETF or index . For example , if you are invested in an emerging market fund , compare your results to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund ( EEM ) . If you are not getting the same return over time , or are incurring significantly more risk , I would question the value of staying in that particular fund .
I hope people do n't see this as being facetious but invest some time in learning to do that with Excel . Most financial information websites ( Yahoo , MSN , etc. ) will allow you to extract all the data you need into excel . This way you can learn to do analysis with something that is n't a " black box " ( as to mean you do n't know the exact equations behind the outputs ) whereas with excel you can delve into and really understand the equations behind the numbers you are looking at . If you use Bloomberg it does all that for you but if you are just starting out you may not truly understand what it means and how everything is connected . If you create the same with excel you have no choice but to deeply understand because you built it from scratch ! I 'm certian there are plenty of tutorials to help you out there as every analyst who has worked in finance since the advent of excel has had to create these at one time or another . Good luck !
In the US , for most mortgages : You have a right to have PMI cancelled when you reach 80 % LTV . The bank must cancel PMI for you at 77-78 % LTV , unless you are behind on payments . The bank must cancel PMI at the midpoint of the loan amortization . The rules for how you compute LTV vary . Usually it 's based with current value . With FHA loans , you can not have the property re-assessed -- LTV is based on the original loan amortization . Note that in the wake of the housing crisis , assessors have suddenly become very conservative with valuations , so be prepared to fight over the valuation .
Yes , there are situations where a stock is a bad buy in spite of a low PE . PE ratio tells you the current share price divided by the prior 4 quarters earnings per share . It does not consider : assets liabilities sustainability of the business competitive threats management competence management integrity cash flow dozens of other things crucial to an investment decision Imagine someone walked up to you and said , " Do you want to buy a piece of my business ? I 'll sell you 1 % of it for $ 1000 . Last year the business earned $ 25000 . " A quick calculation shows a PE of 4 [ $ 1000 / ( $ 25000 * .01 ) ] . Even though this PE is comparatively low , you would n't buy in without a lot more info . What kinds of things might you ask ? What kind business is it ? Who are your competitors ? Who is leading the business ? Can I trust the leaders ? What assets does it have ? What liabilities does it owe ? What will the business look like in 10 years ? 20 ? PE is one tiny component of an informed investment decision .
If the company that owns the lot is selling them it is doing so because it feels it will make more money doing so . You need to read carefully what it is you are getting and what the guarantees are from the owner of the property and the parking structure . I have heard from friends in Chicago that said there are people who will sell spaces they do not own as a scam . There are also companies that declare bankruptcy and go out of business after signing long term leases for their spots . They sell the lot to another company ( which they have an interest in ) and all the leases that they sold are now void so they can resell the spots . Because of this if I were going to invest in a parking space , I would make sure : The company making the offer is reputable and solvent Check for plans for major construction/demolition nearby that would impact your short and long term prospects for rent . Full time Rental would Recoup my investment in less than 5 years . Preferably 3 years . The risk on this is too high for me with out that kind of return .
The best bank with least amount of gotchas is Alliant Credit Union . I did a lot of research and finally decided on this bank . I did a comparative study between ING , Ally and Alliant and found Alliant to be superior than the the other two . More about my study : <URL> If you do find a better bank than this , please update this post , I 'd definitely like to know ! Disclaimer : I have no relationship with either of the three banks .
Technically , yes , you can do this . It 's a form of arbitrage : you 're taking advantage of a small price difference between two markets . But is it worth the hassle of keeping on top of the overdraft and making sure you do n't incur any accidental penalties or fees ? Interest rates are super low , and floating # 1000 or # 2000 , you 're only going to generate # 10-20 per year in a basic savings account .
The problem with daily-rebalanced " inverse " or " leveraged " ETFs is that since they rebalance every day , you can lose money even if your guess as to the market 's direction is correct . Quoting from <URL> : How can this apparent breakdown between longer term index returns and ETF returns happen ? Here 's a hypothetical example : let 's say that on Day 1 , an index starts with a value of 100 and a leveraged ETF that seeks to double the return of the index starts at $ 100 . If the index drops by 10 points on Day 1 , it has a 10 percent loss and a resulting value of 90 . Assuming it achieved its stated objective , the leveraged ETF would therefore drop 20 percent on that day and have an ending value of $ 80 . On Day 2 , if the index rises 10 percent , the index value increases to 99 . For the ETF , its value for Day 2 would rise by 20 percent , which means the ETF would have a value of $ 96 . On both days , the leveraged ETF did exactly what it was supposed to do -- it produced daily returns that were two times the daily index returns . But let 's look at the results over the 2 day period : the index lost 1 percent ( it fell from 100 to 99 ) while the 2x leveraged ETF lost 4 percent ( it fell from $ 100 to $ 96 ) . That means that over the two day period , the ETF 's negative returns were 4 times as much as the two-day return of the index instead of 2 times the return . That example is for " just " leveraging 2x in the same direction . Inverse funds have the same kind of issue . An example from <URL> says that over 12/31/2007 to 12/31/2010 , The Vanguard 500 index fund lost $ 846 . ProShares Ultra S&amp;P ( SSO ) , the 2X ETF for the same index lost . But it did n't lose just twice as much as VFINX , it lost over four times as much -- $ 4,050 . ProShares UltraShort S&amp;P ( SDS ) , the 2X short ETF ( -2 X , gains if benchmark drops ) which should have earned a profit , lost even more -- $ 4,595 . The funds do exactly what they say on any given day . But any losses get " locked in " each day . While normally a 50 % loss needs a 100 % gain to get back to a starting point , a fund like this needs more than a 100 % gain to get back to its starting point . The result of these funds across multiple days does n't match the index it 's matching over those several days , and you wo n't make money over the long term . Do look at the further examples at the links I 've referenced above , or do your own research into the performance of these funds during time periods both when the market is going up and going down . Also refer to these related and/or duplicate questions : <URL> <URL> <URL>
About 10 years ago , I used to use <URL> which was a very sound tool , with a large number of indicators , but it has been a number of years since I have used it , so my comments on it will be out of date . At the time it relied upon me purchasing trading data myself , which is why I switched to Incredible Charts . I currently use <URL> which I have done for a number of years , initially on the free adware service , now on the $ 10/year for EOD data access . There are quicker levels of data access , which might suit you , but I ca n't comment on these . It is web-based which is key for me . The data quality is very good and the number of inbuilt indicators is excellent . You can build search routines on the basis of specific indicators which is very effective . I 'm looking at <URL> , as a replacement for ( or in addition to ) Incredible Charts , as it has very powerful backtesting routines and the ability to run test portfolios with specific buy/sell criteria that can simulate and backtest a number of trading scenarios at the same time . The advantage of all of these is they are not tied to a particular broker .
If you look at the <URL> , you 'll find a lot of NAs when it comes to P/E since there are many young biotech companies that have yet to make a profit . Thus , there may be something to be said for how is the entire industry stat computed . Biotechnology can include pharmaceutical companies that can have big profits due to patents on drugs . As an example , look at Shire PLC which has a P/E of 1243 which is pretty high with a Market Capitalization of over a billion dollars , so this is n't a small company . I wonder what dot-com companies would have looked like in 1998/1999 that could well be similar as some industries will have bubbles you do realize , right ? The reason for pointing out the Market Capitalization is that this a way to measure the size of a company , as this is merely the sum of all the stock of the company . There could be small companies that have low market capitalizations that could have high P/Es as they are relatively young and could be believed to have enough hype that there is a great deal of confidence in the stock . For example , Amazon.com was public for years before turning a profit . In being without profits , there is no P/E and thus it is worth understanding the limitations of a P/E as the computation just takes the previous year 's earnings for a company divided by the current stock price . If the expected growth rate is high enough this can be a way to justify a high P/E for a stock . The question you asked about an industry having this is the derivation from a set of stocks . If most of the stocks are high enough , then whatever mean or median one wants to use as the " industry average " will come from that .
Yes , it can be a good idea to close unused credit cards . I am going to give some reasons why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts , and then I will talk about why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea . Why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts " I 'd like to close the cards . " That is reason enough . Simplifying your financial life is a good thing . Fewer accounts let you focus your energy on the accounts that you actually use . Unused accounts still need to be monitored for fraud . You mentioned that you have high credit card balances that you are carrying . This may indicate that you have trouble using credit responsibly , and having more credit available to you might be a temptation for you . If these unused cards have annual fees , keeping them open will cost money . Unused cards sometimes get closed by the bank due to inactivity . As a result , the advice often given is that , in addition to not closing them , you are supposed to charge something to it every month . This , of course , takes more of your time and energy to worry about , as well as giving you another monthly bill to pay . Why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea to close unused accounts Other answers will tell you that it may hurt your credit score for two reasons : it would increase your utilization and lower your average account age . Before we talk about the validity of these two points , we need to discuss the importance of the credit score . Depending on what your credit score currently is , these actions may have minimal impact on your life . If you are in the mid 700 's or higher , <URL> , and closing these cards will likely not impact anything for you in a significant way . If you are n't that high in your score yet , do you have an immediate need for a high score ? Are you planning on getting more credit cards , or take out any more loans ? I would suggest that , since you have credit card debt , you should n't be taking out any new loans until you get that cleaned up . So your score in the mean time is not very important . Are you currently working on eliminating this credit card debt ? If so , your utilization number will improve , even after you close these accounts , when you get those paid off . Utilization has only a temporary effect on your score ; when your utilization improves , your score improves immediately . Your average account age may or may not improve when you close these accounts , depending on how old they are compared to the accounts you are leaving open . However , the impact of this might not be as much as you think . I realize that this advice is different from other answers , or other things that you may read online . But in my own life , I do a lot of things that are supposedly bad for the credit score : I only have two credit cards , ages 2.5 and 1.5 years . ( I closed my other cards when I got these . ) My typical monthly utilization is around 25 % on these cards , although I pay off the balance in full each month , never paying interest . I have no car loan anymore , and my mortgage is only 4 months old . No other debt . Despite those " terrible " credit practices , my credit score is very high . Conclusion Make your payments on time , get out of debt , and your score will be fine . Do n't keep unwanted accounts open just because someone told you that you should .
Essentially , yes , Peter Lynch is talking about the PEG Ratio . The <URL> is where you take the p/e ratio and then divide that by the growth rate ( which should include any dividends ) . A lower number indicates that the stock is undervalued , and could be a good buy . Lynch 's metric is the inverse of that : Growth rate divided by the p/e ratio . It is the same idea , but in this case , a higher number indicates a good value for buying . In either case , the idea behind this ratio is that a fairly priced stock will have the p/e ratio equal the growth rate . When your growth rate is larger than your p/e ratio , you are theoretically looking at an undervalued stock .
There are flaws in the risk models regarding no credit status . They do n't take into account the fact that someone who lives in society and responsibly meets their obligations for years is more likely to pay off loans than someone who has no history of paying off their loans . People with very poor credit will still be able to get some RTO and auto loans , but they pay high interest , and the lender expects collateral property to have value when it 's repossessed . Initial credit is not that difficult to obtain if you plan and put some time into it . A cell phone contract , utility bills and bank accounts ( especially those overdraft " accounts " that you should opt out of ) are ways to establish credit without a credit card . Secured credit cards should be more than sufficient to establish credit within a few years . A No Credit standing can be verified at <URL> , and should be checked whether you believe you have credit or not because of identity theft concerns . In summary , it 's only better to have bad credit if you want to get a small , high interest loan right now . That 's a good way to be even more in debt , and pay lots of money to creditors rather than yourself . If you are patient , good credit is easier to obtain than repairing really bad credit . Either way , you wo n't be able to get a mortgage for a few years .
According to Clark Howard . The best mix is to have at least two reward cards for no other reason than rewards , but you actually should have more as far as credit score goes . 30 % of your credit score is based on how much of your credit that you use . I had only 17k in credit . I usually spend 6k a month and pay it off every month . I went to 4 credit cards got the total line up to over 40k and because my usage went down to about 12 % of total credit , my credit score went up about 40 points to mid 700 's after two months Long story short the more credit cards you have the better for your credit score . You should use each one twice a year to keep them active . ( Not relevant for a store credit card , you do n't want to buy something from macy 's for the sake of keeping the card active )
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
Bonds and equities are usually the inverse of each other . As rates start to rise the value of your existing , low rate bond portfolios will decrease . With rates near all-time record lows , holding anything other than short-duration bond funds is a risky proposition . If you want income , look at shifting toward dividend equities .
If you have any non-mortgage debt -- e.g. a credit card , a line of credit , a student loan , or a car loan -- then I would pay that down first . The interest being paid on that kind of borrowed money likely exceeds what you could expect to earn in reasonable investments . If you do n't have any non-mortgage debt , and your mortgage is large ( e.g. thinking about it keeps you up at night , sometimes :-) then go for the the extra mortgage payment . Also go for the mortgage if you 're paying at a relatively high interest rate compared to what you could expect from investments . If your mortgage is small ( e.g. it 's going to be paid off in a few years ) and at a relatively low interest rate , then I would choose the RRSP or TFSA . Unless you 're in the top income tax bracket , I would favor the TFSA over RRSP -- TFSAs were only introduced this year and any balance there already is likely tiny compared to the RRSP . For retirement , I 'm aiming to have equal amounts of RRSP and TFSA money . One option you have n't mentioned is an RESP . If you have children under the age of 18 , your bonus could also be used to make next year 's RESP contribution and qualify for the 20 % matching Canada Education Savings Grant ( CESG ) from the government .
From what I understand , the answer is no . Banking systems and credit reporting services are different from country to country , each has their own rules and way of doing things , and I 'm under the impression that neither really talks to one another except in the case of sending money ( in which case there are other things involved , the least of which being conversion ) . Note that , although not the greatest example , as an American living in Japan , the banks here are totally different than those in the States . Banks in one location know nothing of my credit rating in the other , and moreover would not trust it or even care . ( Multinational banks like Citibank may be an exception though and is worth looking into . )
end question
