start question
How to learn commenting on graphs and tables the right way ?
One problem people often have when presenting data in graphs and tables is that they often include data that is not relevant . For talks ( formal or informal ) I really like the process of starting with an empty graph of just the axes and explaining what the axes are and the limits and what they mean . Sometimes I then like to show idealized data from competing hypotheses so people can know what to expect without the added difficulties associated with understanding real , and potentially noisy , data . Once people understand what the axes mean , I add data to the plot . Ideally , I start with a single data point and explain exactly what the data point means . I then add additional data points from the same " condition " , possibly one at a time if they are discrete or all at once if there is some meaningful function that describes them . Once the first set of data is presented , I add on the second set . Sometimes it is helpful to remove or grey out the first set of data while you are introducing the second set of data so people can focus on just what is new . Once the second set of data is explained , bring back the first set and talk about the relationship between the two sets . This should ideally be moved to a new figure or panel to highlight the differences and similarities you want the listener to focus on . If there is more " hidden " in figures and tables , that means it is too complicated for a talk . In manuscripts space is at a premium and you often have to have figures that tell multiple stories . In these cases the text still needs to walk you through the figure step-by-step and introduce each piece of information in the order in which you want the reader to look at it .
Yes , all of the typical operators apply . is implicit so your alert query could be
EDITED according to the PiotrMigdal 's comment If you like to point out the SE contribution to your work I would suggest to acknowledge the community by any acknowledgement you consider suitable . For example : The authors would like to express their appreciation to the Stack exchange , inc. community for many useful inputs and valuable comments . or if you like you can be more specific We would like to thank to community of Stack exchange , inc. , especially , Cross Validated group ( section ? ) for advices regarding the data processing and data visualization . Or you can combine what ever you like . If you think that only one user was the core of the contribution , you can mention only him or her . Special thanks goes to Piotr Migdal , who significant contributed to the quality of this answer with his valuable and well-aimed comment . In case the person would be ( or would like to stay ) anonymous and you would still like to acknowledge the contribution , you can write the acknowledgement to anonymous person ( as well you can <URL> ) . This happens typically when you refer to web-pages : We would like to acknowledge the discussion regarding the deep learning algorithm at Stack exchange , inc. in Cross Validated section ( Available at : <URL> , Accessed : 44rd August 2010 ) . However , I think that much better would be to try to contact the person/people . You can do it either by contact info or by comments . They can be willing to step out of the anonymity for you or , what is more , have some further discussion on the topic of your interest . And if you would like to express your gratitude , you can always contribute to SE :)
You can answer this question is to look at the date stamps sequences on some of the existing papers . Many journals ( including the one you have asked about ) , include all of the major dates in the publication process , e.g. , " Received Date1 , Accepted Date2 , Available Online Date3 , " as well as the final date of publication . Note that the " Available Online " and final date of publication may often be very different , but except in rare cases it is " Available Online " that you should care about because that is when people begin to be able to get your paper . However , some journals do not do all of the final proof correction until closer to the date of publication , but essentially just have your preprint up online for quite some time ! Applying this analysis to this particular journal , one can find the following : Acceptance to available online looks like 1-3 weeks Final publication happens ~ 6 months later So you will probably get contacted about the proof very quickly ( if they follow the normal method of proofing before online availability ) , or not for several months ( if they do late-binding proofing ) .
How should you cite ? There is a format for citing web references for nearly any citation style . In the <URL> Last , First M. " Article Title . " Website Title . Website Publisher , Date Month Year Published . Web . Date Month Year Accessed . In <URL> Author , A. ( date ) . Title of document [ Format description ] . Retrieved from Website You may leave out the author field when it is not possible to retrace the original author ( as described <URL> ) When should you cite ? If you were to refer a material that has sufficient information to be given credit for your work , then by all means you ought to cite it . But first , try to find the roots of the idea , if such idea has been published elsewhere before this web-page was published . On-line content is highly susceptible to contain plagiarized content . See if you could locate the original source . If found , cite the original source instead .
You might find this article on a computer science class valuable ( 1 ) . The tl ; dr is that sections allowed student-prep notes showed no overall improvement , but mostly because many students did n't bother to create good student-prep notes . Good notes = good grades . A quick browse of a review / meta-analysis article on the topic ( 2 ) , indicates that open-note exams can decrease student anxiety , and that student-prepared notes tend to produce larger improvements than open-book exams . As an instructor , I 've found students often spend energy only where they feel it is needed . I would recommend providing sample exam questions ( as a group activity in class ? ) that gives students a good idea of what will be required and what sorts of notes would be helpful . This will help them expend the energy in preparation instead of frantic in-exam page-flipping . Thanks for wanting to trigger deep learning in students ! Duncan , D.G. ( 2007 ) . Student performance shows slight improvement when open notes are used during information system exams . Journal of Information Technology Education , 6 , 361 -- 370 . Larwin , Karen H. , Jennifer Gorman , and David A. Larwin . " Assessing the Impact of Testing Aids on Post-Secondary Student Performance : A Meta-Analytic Investigation . " Educational Psychology Review 25.3 ( 2013 ) : 429-443 .
In APA style , you can write , ( e.g. , <URL> ) Featherstone et al 1900 ( as cited in Thomas and Cullen 2002 ) Of course , in general you should try your best to read the original and cite the original directly .
If you can write in latex , you should write on it versus word . The latex is specially designed to work with technical documents with a lot of mathematical equations . Also , you can write math equations in word using built-in equation editor of Microsoft word or MathType as a better alternative than built-in ones . See this link for <URL> for equation writing in Word with better configuration . Technically the MathType produces equations with higher equality than Word built-in and I recommend it to use as a macro on Word . About writing in Latex and then revert to Word , it would n't be recommended and will be reduced the quality of equations ( due to reversion complexities and equation editors ' of Word difficulties ) .
I have never heard of this journal , but from the website it seems legitimate based on its publication history ( extending back to 1995 ) and its institution of origin . What your nephew should do now is just settle in and wait , and do n't bother emailing the editors . As a commenter said , one month is not nearly enough time for a journal to process and review an article . It 's usually more like 3-4 months and could possibly go longer than that . And the editors of these journals probably get so many emails from authors requesting status updates that usually those emails are simply ignored -- or if you have a nice editor there 'll be an automated reply that says , in so many words , " Please stop emailing me . " The frequent emailing could even backfire . Recently I submitted an article to a journal , with a student co-author , and was told they 'd get back with me in 9-12 weeks . Six months passed and I had heard nothing . I emailed the editor and asked to make sure she had everything she needed ( = polite way of bugging her for an update ) . The editor said she would check with the reviewer . One day later I received the review -- a three-line rejection letter that indicated clearly that the reviewer had not even read the article . To me , there is a strong likelihood that the article was rejected directly because the reviewer was annoyed at being bugged . This is clear malpractice , but what are you going to do about it ? Welcome to our wonderful academic publishing culture . So , tell your nephew to move on to his next project and let this simmer on the back burner until the end of the summer .
I came across the following study : T McElroy , L Mosteller The influence of circadian type , time of day and class difficulty on students ' grades . <URL> In the conclusions of the work , they mention that the students have a best performance if their optimal time-of-day ( i.e. , if they are monrningness type or eveniningness type ) coincide with the class schedule . By contrast the classes that require less cognitive functioning are less sensitive to the advantage and disadvantage of optimal and non-optimal time-of-day .
What you will soon realise is that there is no one CV to rule them all . More precisely , you will find that you need to tailor your CV for each job application etc , by ( de ) emphasising various parts of it . Getting a summer internship at McDonalds ? Emphasise the hamburger flipping . Applying for a grant , emphasise the research . Thus how much research experience you include in your CV depends what you are planning to use your CV for . If it were to get a PhD position , I would say " Yes " . Publications stay . They always count . Gradually , the research projects you did as an undergraduate will become uninteresting for your CV , for example , as you start filling your CV with new and exciting activities . This always happens . When you are starting your research career , you will be asked to review papers . You can list what journal/conference you reviewed for on your CV . Later you will be on conference PCs or journal editorial boards . Then all of the reviewing experience will become irrelevant for your CV .
It 's fairly frequent , particularly for smaller or less tightly run computer science conferences , for the response to authors to slip back by a few days . Often , this is because some reviewers may not have sent their reviews in on time , and if the program committee is n't proactive about scheduling for slippage and having backups available , it may take them a few extra days to get enough reviews to decide on those papers . This then is likely to delay responses for all of the papers , because both the organizers and the conference software wants to sent all of the notifications at once . So , to your question of what to do : If you know anybody else who sent in a paper , compare notes with them . If they have n't heard yet either , no worries . If they have heard , then you can email immediately . If you do n't know somebody else , give it a week , and then ask .
Thinking more on this , I have come to agree that patenting things - devices , or drugs - is necessary . However , I wonder if this question would be answered differently if the thing being patented is , instead , a model ? For example , would it have been appropriate for Krebs to patent the eponymously named Krebs cycle as a way to think about energy metabolism in a cell ? Or the cell cycle ? Or , could the inventor of the SIR model of infectious disease spread have ethically patented that method of tracking infectious diseases ?
If you do n't have the authority to change the textbook on your own , at least for your own section , then your target should be , not the publisher , but the person or committee that does have that happy power . * Show them this : <URL> and propose that you teach a section of your course using the appropriate open access textbook . ( Edited to add : Pick out the appropriate book and an alternate before you talk to the committee or coordinator and be prepared to defend your choice vs. the approved text . ) In the following semester , compare how well your students did in the next course in sequence vs. those who used the standard text . Your secret weapon : work like hell to be sure your students are well prepared for the next course . In the comments , Ben Crowell has said : " Here is a catalog I maintain of free books , including many open-source textbooks : <URL> " I 've edited it into my answer so it does n't get lost . Thank you , Ben . * Hat tip to Professor Severus Snape for " happy power . "
This answer is for the US , based on my experience with US admissions . I would say that this is generally not an applications/admissions question , only because it 's unlikely to be meaningful to admissions committees . Many graduate departments in computer science work on a cohort-admissions model , where a group of students are admitted each year and then are expected to find a faculty adviser once accepted . In this model it is up to you to find a research program that personally motivates you and then to persuade an adviser to take you on . It is at this stage that you would ( and should ) make it clear to a potential adviser that you 're not willing to work on defense related projects . However , at this point it 's probably moot because you 're going to be talking to potential advisers based on your perceived compatibility . What might be a better thing to do during the application process is to ask whether a candidate department conducts any defense related research . Then you can just not apply to defense-related organizations rather than make it a point of contention with programs that you 're interested in . Additionally , most CS research is not defense related , and most all broad-based research departments will have plenty of research opportunities that are not defense projects . Consider that <URL> and ineligible for this kind of work anyway . You will have no problem finding non-military projects to work on . Some places are well-known as defense-related institutions - for example the MIT Lincoln Laboratory , the Naval Research Laboratory , or the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory . It is usually obvious from these organization 's websites that this is a focus of theirs , and you can just avoid them . However , if you wanted to apply to a place such as this I would definitely discuss your personal ethics eariler rather than later , and your ethics definitely do n't disqualify you . These labs do a lot of research that is " defense-related " in the sense that it provides for the common defense of the country , not because it 's a military project . They work on everything from actual weapons systems to civil defense projects like weather satellites , making the energy grid more robust , and information security .
I typically post my slides on my website as pdfs . On the title page of my slides , I have started adding a line that says something like " slides available on my preprint page " , and sometimes I 'll mention this at the start of my talk . On my website , I have a page for all my slides and I also link to the relevant slides on my preprints page . Personally , I prefer when speakers make their slides available as pdfs , because I like being able to download them and file them away , rather than needing to bookmark a website . Similar to my preprints , I 'm excited to have folks download my slides ( so I do n't see any reason to control their distribution ) .
By claiming ownership the paper appears in your arXiv account , and you can manage it there ( e.g. uploading a new version or adding a journal reference ) . It also means it will appear in the list of papers associated to your arXiv <URL> , which is especially useful if you have a common name . You can claim ownership by logging in to your arXiv account ( create one first if you do n't have one yet ) , and then click on the " Claim ownerhsip " link . It will ask for the paper ID and the password . Edit : As Wrzlprmft pointed out in the comments , it will likely also add to your endorsement record , meaning that you are less likely to need to be endorsed for future submissions you make yourself , and will sooner be able to endorse others .
I do not believe that the problem is fundamentally about space , but rather is a cultural problem that stems from three things : Reviewers do not demand clarity in their mathematics There is often a perception that " fancy " or " difficult " math means more important science ( related to # 1 ) Really clear presentation of mathematics is difficult and takes a lot of work ( <URL> ) Ultimately , a community tends to get what it rewards . There is no reason that math must be impenetrable . Even if one is faced with a space problem , you can play the same sort of games that you do with figures and data in order to fit . Right now , however , it is typically understood and accepted that you do n't have to do that with your mathematics . In fact , some scientific communities will punish a researcher for presenting mathematics more clearly , because it makes the work look " less significant . " Technology can not help solve this , because ultimately it is a problem of human communication . Anyone who is bothered by mathematical impenetrability can , however , take their own small steps towards changing this culture : In your own work : Include tables and clear explanations in your papers . Use as few symbols as possible , and choose the symbols to improve clarity , e.g. , matching the symbol to the first letter of its description . Buffer your equations with explanatory prose that restates their content in plain English . When considering other people 's work : Call out mathematical impenetrability as a reviewer Ask for tables , clear prose , etc. in the papers that you review View the mathematical impenetrability of a work as a flaw rather than a good thing . This is a very difficult problem , and unlikely to change any time soon , but it can be made better one paper at a time . Moreover , it is my belief ( and experience ) , that clearer mathematics can make for a higher impact and better cited paper , so it will likely be valuable to you in the short term as well , unless you are in a community that has a toxic relationship to mathematical impenetrability .
Well , this condition depends on many factors : Time . If you do n't mind having a rougher skin on your hands , then give it some time . However , if it does n't get better over time , then something has to be done . Dry hands . IMHO a big issue for many people : chalk dries your hand skin . Seriously . You should have some good cream in your office and apply it before and after each lecture . This can significantly help with the skin condition , and together with the previous point , it may be enough . Chalk holding . There are several ways how to hold a chalk . Some people prefer this or that . I suggest trying couple of them : Hold it like a pen -- however , this presses the chalk against the nail base on your middle finger , not quite good . Hold it like a dining knife in high society -- you get a long chalk and touch it by thumb tip from one side and by all fingertips from the other side . This requires a chalk that writes without much pressure Take small piece and hold it between the tips of your thumb , point finger and middle finger . ( My personal favourite ) With longer chalks , you can press it against the palm , and then do as above . Type of chalk . I know three basic types of chalk : soft square-profile chalks that leave trace on everything they touch , hard rounded chalks that leave thinner traces and last forever ; and something in between -- square profile but quite hard . There are surely others . You may try different types of chalk if you can , to see which one do you like . As for the special chalk holders and stuff : I have never used them , which does n't mean they are bad . Just a remark : With the softy things , remember to wash them well since chalk tends to accumulate in these .
the fact that I had a chance to go to the competition is one of my competitive points . How can I write that down on my CV ? You almost wrote down exactly what you need . was selected to go to SPO , [ ... which is an accomplishment why ? ] an extremely selective program admitting only [ top X % of , Y hundred , etc. ] physics students nationwide And it 's always fine to say " placed in the top 1/2 of students " if true . Just from a resume writing standpoint anything worse than top 1/2 would n't add value to include . As an aside , you are completely right that this is huge lauds . In high school I placed # 8 in a similar state-wide competition . What if the top 10 were invited for an even more competitive competition and I came darn near in last ? Do n't fall for the Russian doll effect which more or less just tells you you 're not # 1 in the world ( ... but even the best undergraduate programs admit more than one physics student ! ) Obviously the admission would be an accomplishment . Quantification is important . Numbers are best for a corporate resume , but perhaps just establishing the prestige of SPO is sufficient . Check their website for info on how prestigious it is to participate . Perhaps they have recognition from the U.S. President or something - whatever it is they 'll be sure to brag about it somewhere . If the reviewer does not know of SPO , they will have no way to tell this is n't just an email list with 30 students submitting problems and answers with a leader board .
end question
start question
Is the minimum GPA required for Graduate school a cut-off criteria or a general guideline ?
There 's no absolute here -- it really depends on the program in question . Some departments are stricter about cutoffs than others . It depends a lot on the number of applications they receive , and how selective they need to be . However , I know that many good departments do n't screen on GPA alone . However , even if you 're GPA is not " elite , " that 's not the end of the world , so long as you have the research experience and the letters of recommendation to support you . ( A student from our department was recently admitted to a top-10 engineering program in the US on the basis of his research experience -- his GPA was pedestrian at best . )
if you are in Japan , there are many people that go to Guam to take the CPA . Essentially anybody can do it , but if you graduate from an American University , there are some modules that you do not need to take , pretty much like the Japanese CPA .
I 've heard from people that generally , it 's a bad idea to go to the same school as your undergrad to get your graduate education . The word " generally " is commonly used in two rather different senses . The first sense is " typically " , " most often " . The second sense -- perhaps more common in mathematical and scientific writing -- is " always " , or " in the largest possible scope which might be applied " . The quoted advice is valid if " generally " is construed in the former sense , not the latter . To briefly explain : on the one hand , there are advantages to acquiring a diversity of experience . " Great University X " will do its business in a way which is slightly different from " Great University Y " . Experiencing this is very valuable , because if you stay in academia you will probably be affiliated with several more universities , different from each of these . If all of your student experience is at a single place , you will have subconsciously internalized the universality of your experience , and you 'll be in for a rude awakening when you learn that what is obviously best to you is not the practice in your new environment . Then too , by going to different great universities , you meet different great people ( many of whom will know each other and will be in transit to/from other great universities ) , both students and faculty . This is also very valuable . On the other hand , there are situations where it is most advantageous to stay where you are . For instance there are sometimes personal , family or financial considerations . Even neglecting these , there are times that the university you attended as an undergraduate is truly the uniquely best option for you to continue your studies , or the best option among those available to you . If you are an undergraduate at UCLA , if you want to study analysis , and if you did not get admitted to Berkeley , MIT , Chicago , Princeton or Stanford , then staying where you are sounds like an excellent ( perhaps optimal ) choice academically . If you 've already done successful research with a top faculty member at your current program and you truly want to continue that research most of all : yes , think seriously about staying right where you are . The other answer says that graduate school rankings is " a little ridiculous " . While I do n't really disagree , let me try to put a finer point on that : grad school rankings are ridiculous if you take them too seriously , and especially if you regard them as a strict linear ranking . It does not matter that US News and World Report currently thinks that MIT is the best mathematics department in the US whereas in past years it used to think it was some combination of Harvard / Princeton / Berkeley . It would be more honest and more helpful if they simply recorded that these departments and several others ( Chicago , Stanford , ... ) are in the uppermost echelon of graduate programs in mathematics . Asking whether Harvard is better than Stanford is ridiculous : it depends upon what you 're studying . ( If you want to study analysis , do n't go to Harvard unless you know you want to work with the one faculty member there who does that . ) Students should be thinking of departments in terms of echelons . Within a given echelon , ranking is not helpful . However , barring some truly exceptional circumstances you want to go to a program in the top echelon that accepts you . As a corollary to this : if your undergraduate institution is in the top 10 , and every other program you 've gotten into is n't in the top 30 , then yes , I think you should stay where you are , unless you have a very good reason to go to a lower-ranked department ( best reason : there is a superstar there that has agreed to work with you ) . Finally though I have to say that I find it slightly odd that the OP has apparently gone to a top department , been admitted as a student to that top department , but not at any other department of comparable quality . That suggests to me that her application is not as strong as it could be , as those who know her in real life apparently value her more highly .
The person 's title in this case is ( almost always ) Dr , so " Dear Dr Last-name " would be the standard salutation for a first correspondence . If they sign their reply with their first name , then you can consider yourself welcome to write " Dear First-name " in future . Academics in the UK are very used to receiving email addressing them as Professor , so it 's not a big problem if you do this , but there is probably a slight increase in the chance that they might view your email as spam ( I say this because the overwhelming majority of emails I get which address me as Professor are at least somewhat spammy ) . If someone 's title is Professor , this will always be listed on the university website , so if you 've done your research and found out that they are not a professor , it 's probably best to use Dr.
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
There 's no absolute here -- it really depends on the program in question . Some departments are stricter about cutoffs than others . It depends a lot on the number of applications they receive , and how selective they need to be . However , I know that many good departments do n't screen on GPA alone . However , even if you 're GPA is not " elite , " that 's not the end of the world , so long as you have the research experience and the letters of recommendation to support you . ( A student from our department was recently admitted to a top-10 engineering program in the US on the basis of his research experience -- his GPA was pedestrian at best . )
Definitely stay long enough to get the accreditation . And think very carefully before leaving . In particular , look at why actuarial professors stayed a decade . Maybe their employer paid for their PhD . ( some will shun PhDs , others will welcome them . Guess which you want ) And maybe being in industry gave them access to data that they could n't possibly have got if they 'd been outside industry . Access to lots of data should mean lots of papers . Lots of papers means furthering your academic career . But do n't just stay in industry letting your skills rot and your knowledge become outdated . Be a researcher , while in industry . Maybe do some lecturing or in-house training too .
Most international conferences are paid for by the registration fees of the attendees . The higher the ratio of attendees to speakers , the more registrations the conference can afford to comp ( give for free ) . When a large fraction of the attendees are also speakers , as is the case with a lot of peer-review-centric conferences , then it 's often the case that only the keynote speakers have compensated registration and/or travel . If the conference is close on its budget , even the organizers are expected to pay their own way and their own registration fees . The smaller the conference , the more likely this is to be the case , but even very big ones often expect everybody but the keynote speakers to pay their own way . In short : yes , this is n't unusual at all .
As others have said , different universities -- and even different programs within a university -- have different policies about when repeating a course is allowed and if so , how it counts towards the GPA . Actually , it 's even more complicated than this : the same student enrolled in the same program can have multiple GPA 's ! It is my understanding that at many if not most American universities , there is one GPA that is simply the average of the numerical scores ( on a 4 point scale ) over all courses one has taken . With respect to this system , if you take a course once and get an A and then again and get a C , then it does not go into your GPA as a 3.0 ; it goes in as a 4.0 and a 2.0 . The average is the same , but the weight is twice as much , reflecting the fact that you completed two courses rather than just one . However , GPA " in your major " may be counted with a different weighting system . You seem to think that there 's something unfair about averaging the grades . To me , it sounds like a generous system : and in fact , I do n't think that it is guaranteed that a student is allowed to repeat a course to improve their grade if the grade they got the first time around is considered " satisfactory " . This practice again depends on the university and the program . You write : The student has exhibited an " A " level of " knowledge " so why penalize them . Sorry , where is the penalty you speak of ? They got a C and they got an A , and both are being recorded . If the student attempted to learn on their own and did not attain " requisite " understanding prior to attending the course but ended doing very well in the course they would not be penalized . Again , I do n't see how anyone is being penalized . A low grade is not a penalty . Or perhaps offer two measures of GPA , one as a summation of everything and one that only includes the students best performance for each course taken ? If you want to present this alternate calculation of your GPA to someone else , you can . But you also have to record the official GPA . Finally , I think that the practice of allowing a student to take a course multiple times and only record the best grade is a poor one , for several reasons : i ) It is fundamentally not transparent . The standard unit of coursework in most American universities is the semester-long course . You are registered for a certain number of courses each semester , and you get grades for each of them . If grades get replaced by later grades , this kind of information is lost , and it may be that the student is recorded as taking nothing during that semester ! This leads to : ii ) Because high course grade are very desirable , this practice would encourage students who got good but not optimal grades to repeat the course until they got the highest possible grade . If you think this through soberly for a while , you 'll see it 's just a bad idea . The whole point of a grade like a B is that it 's good enough to move on to the next course . Students who repeat courses until they get A 's could take much longer getting through the program . It will create a culture where most students who are taking the course the first time are taking it " for practice only " . If courses were heavily populated with more advanced students who did well the first time around and are insisting on taking it again to get the highest possible grade , then that could seriously skew where the course is being pitched , which would encourage yet more students to repeat every course they take . Finally : ( iii ) We do not want students to be able to graduate with a perfect GPA if they spend seven years in college instead of four . Moreover -- sorry to divulge the ugly truth -- we do n't want a substantial percentage of college students to have the highest , or essentially the highest , possible GPA . While the competitive nature of GPAs in the current university environment has many unpleasant aspects , the vast majority of American culture is fully bought into it ... especially including the students . If 50 % of every class got a 4.0 GPA then most of the advantages of having such a high GPA would evaporate , and employers / graduate schools would hire you based on other metrics . ( Note that people often talk about grade inflation , but really grade inflation is only a problem to those who are not familiar with the current university system . For everyone who is sufficiently informed , it does n't matter whether the average grade in a course is a C or a B + . Still , after taking about 40 courses , there will be a small tail of students who have gotten almost all A 's . So there is no problem here . )
Giving the impression that you might be a person who does n't stick around for long can indeed be a negative when job hunting ( although there are exceptions ) . I suppose conceivably it might be a problem for some PhD admissions scenarios . But I ca n't imagine it would affect you when applying for a masters . They just want to be confident that you will stay for one year -- and the life story that your CV tells will not throw that into question ! I once read about a musician , top in his instrument , with a successful concertizing career , who went back to school to study medicine , and then after ten years practicing medicine successfully , went back to concertizing . From that we see that if you 're good , you 're good , and that 's what people care about . One of the things that makes you good is that you are not afraid to follow your nose , and pursue things you want to learn more about . You do n't need to hide that .
Good question . I am a tenured ( associate ) math professor at UGA . To be ( too ? ) honest , I sometimes find graduate visitation days to be slightly awkward . With most of the students , they and I want to have something to talk about ; for many of the students , we will have something to talk about at some future point ; for a few of the students , we will become so close that it will be hard to remember these first awkward conversations . I just remembered a visitation day where I almost sullenly plopped myself down at a barroom table next to a certain prospective student and a bunch of current students . They were more trying to have a conversation than actually having a conversation . At one point the topic turned to some elementary topology problem the prospective student had in mind for some reason . One of the current students was studying topology and she got interested and started to try to work it out . Alas I was still bored , and after a few minutes I quietly uttered a few words . The current student paused for a second , then her eyes lit up , and very soon after I got my chance to politely excuse myself and get another drink . That prospective student is now my PhD student , but the bond was not forged on that day . But still , we should try . 1 ) I hear you study X. I 've studied only a little bit of it so far , but I remember learning about Y. Can you tell me a little about your work ? " Can you tell me about your work ? " is a very natural question that sadly can often be a showstopper . The honest answer for many professors when talking to perfectly capable students who may later turn out to be their students is often " Not very meaningfully , no . " Above I tried to frame the question in a little better way . How is it better ? Well for one thing , asking a professor in a department you 're visiting what they do can come off as lazy : almost everyone has a wealth of information available on their webpage now . If the student really cared , would n't they look a little bit in advance ? So the framing of the question shows that the student has looked a little bit in advance . It also clues the professor in to what might be an appropriate level at which to pitch the explanation . If X is number theory ( as it is for me ) , then if Y is " Wilson 's Theorem " I 'm going to say something very different than if Y is " the Chebotarev Density Theorem " . Still it 's probably best not to say too much . I remember asking one professor this when I was a prospective student and he said , " Yes , I study number theory , as do several other faculty members here . I guess what distinguishes me is that I 've also become very interested in representation theory , and my work uses that to a larger extent than the others . Does that make sense to you ? " The person who said this to me was Dick Gross , and yes it did make sense , and as a two sentence orientation to who he was and what he did it functioned brilliantly then and it still does , but I see now what a lot of confidence and experience he must have had to know to say so little . And he asked me if I understood , and if I had n't he probably would have said something else : he seemed like a nice guy ... and it turns out that he is . ( I do n't remember what I said after that . I think it would have been like me at the time to try to show some knowledge by asking a question -- that 's a young math student type of thing to do . So I 'll imagine that I asked " What kind of representation theory ? " because I would have known that there were finite groups , Lie groups and so forth . And Gross would have replied " Algebraic groups " . At that point I would have had to admit that I was totally lost ... and my being lost would be of no lasting significance : suffice it to say that I have since learned about that topic ! ) 2 ) Do you do any computer work ? I think that 's an increasingly important question . Nowadays a math student has to locate himself on the spectrum of more computation / less computation . If you 're thinking about working with a faculty member , you definitely want to know this . 3 ) Are you interested in real-world applications of your work ? Have you ever done any consulting or other outside work ? Again , a key question . You should already be starting to think about these sorts of questions for yourself . I , for instance , have absolutely zero contacts in industry , so I would be a terrible advisor for a student who was inclined in that direction , even if we had common mathematical interests . 4 ) How long have you been here ? That 's a nice question for one human being to ask another . The professor will probably respond with some personal information about the town or their housing situation or their family or ... something . 5 ) Where did you get your PhD ? You would think that would be a kind of backward-looking question to ask a professor , but actually academics ask each other that kind of thing all the time . Sad to say we really do try to have little portions of the CVs of hundred
In my opinion and experience , it is relatively rare for an MSc thesis to yield truly original research resulting in a paper . The primary goal of a MSc thesis is to teach you important research skills : come up with a general idea of what to do , researching literature , coming up with a specific question that you want to address , performing research ( computations , fieldwork , lab experiments ) , and finally writing it down in a thesis . If you successfully complete this cycle , I think your MSc thesis is a success . If the thesis , after some editing , is original enough to end up as a journal paper this is a big bonus .
I might be able to help answer this from a background in Psychometrics . Where I work we produce many tests that are all standardised and then equated to be put onto the same scale . These scales however , from one test to another , are unrelateble , unless of course the two differing tests have an equating study completed to determine the shift factor to transfer a scale from say Test 1 to the scale of Test 2 . To construct a scale , we first analyse the test data , so student response data and item ( question ) data . We do the analysis using the Rasch Model , which only takes into account two variables , the students ' abilities and the items ' difficulties . This allows us to construct a dataset that contains the logit levels of the students ' abilities and of the items ' difficulties . Definition of Logit : A logit is a unit of measurement to report relative differences between candidate ability estimates and item difficulties . Logits are an equal interval level of measurement , which means that the distance between each point on the scale is equal ( 1-2 = 99-100 ) . Once the logit tables have been created they can be used to create a scale by applying a simple linear transformation , such as : scale score = 10 * logit difficulty + 250 In some of the work I do we have scale scores that actually are below 0 , however most of the work I do , scale scores are constructed such that the minimum is around 200 or so . The construction of the scale is for the most part entirely arbitrary . If you wish to see how the logits of students and items are calculated please read : <URL> Also as an extra note : There are other models for doing test analysis , such as the 2PL ( Introduces an additional parameter to Rasch Model ( 1PL ) , the items discrimination ) , the 3PL ( Introduces an additional parameter to the 2PL , which is a guess factor , this creates a minimum probability of getting the item incorrect which depends on your guess value ) , there is also a 4PL which adds an additional parameter ( the slip paremeter , that creates a ceiling probability , that is not 1 , for getting an item correct ) . I hope this helps and provides some extra information that may be of use .
Erasmus program is evaluated in sense that you are capable of living and working in new surrounding and that you can integrate easily and adapt faster to school system of given country ( host university ) . This mean that your advantage in overcoming so called " cultural shock " and that you will not spent you MSc with loosing your time and nerves in adapting . but EP is not crucial and never been , many students that I know , enrolled in MSc without Erasmus experience , If you want to pursue research oriented program ( which I highly doubt it exist in EU as a part of international MSc program , excluding UK ) then Summer research program is desirable . I need to warn you , that quality of that research program and advisor on host institution needs to be appropriate . As someone who been on both , erasmus and sumer research , I benefited more from summer research program , but I can thank to my advisor on that institution , also there are many examples where students found out that erasmus were more valuable experience than SRP , they felt like lab technicians during SRP . This you should avoid . Contact and inform well before going to that institution . I guess it is individual experience and each department or university that are in programs are not valued the same .
I think there is a non negligible chance that this will make a bad first impression on the readers . Do n't get me wrong : I love it when people depart from the dry and oft boring " academic style " of writing and try to invigorate their papers : more concise writing , less use of conditional , more direct statements , use of active voice , stating one 's opinion when need be , etc. . But this should be done with the goal of making your paper easier to read , and not hyping it . If you start with a broad claim that has little to do with your actual conclusions , you may alienate some readers ( " hey , I read the paper because the first line said that a world without gluons would be beneficial in the long term , but then it 's only a boring particle physics paper ! " ) . To give a specific example , when I read papers dealing with physical and chemical properties of water , oftentimes the authors think it wise to start their introduction with a broad statements like : Water is the most abundant molecule of the human body , and the second most common molecule in the Universe . Its presence or absence has dramatic consequences for human life and civilization : droughts cause famines and floods cause death and disease . Though it has a special relationship with our everyday lives , there is still much we need to learn about it . and then end with : In conclusion , we reported the most accurate measurement yet of the bending vibration frequency of heavy water , with an uncertainty of 10 -- 9 . It annoys me .
As a filter . The main purpose of asking for GPA in grad school admissions is to quickly weed out people ( like me ) who have actually low GPAs . Nobody is admitted to top PhD programs solely on the basis of their GPA , or even primarily on the basis of their GPA . Other factors , including which classes you took , are more important . If you have a high GPA , but no evidence of research potential , you will not be admitted .
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
I generally advise anyone before moving to a place they are not familiar with to visit that place in person - specifically during unusual hours . The higher the population density ( such as in on-campus housing , apartments ) , the more important this is ! If you are more particular with your living arrangements ( such as having children , an ill family member , pets , noise sensitivity , and so on ) , it is even more important ! The most important times to visit an area are : in the early morning before you usually wake up , after the end of the usual work day ( 6-7pm ) , at your usual bed time ( 9 , 10 , 11pm - or whatever that time is for you if you have a less usual schedule ) , and of course " the wee hours " of midnight to 2-4am . I 've lived in many places , and these are the key " pain points " where the neighborhood can cause a problem . In " family communities " where many people have kids , it 's the loudest in the morning when kids are getting off to school and after work hours when kids are out playing before dinner . Meanwhile in some more ' dicey ' communities going anywhere after 10pm is going to give you something to talk about the next day , at best . In college communities , this varies tremendously - sometimes even between individual buildings on campus ! Most campuses have personnel who are very familiar with living conditions throughout , and if you have a " Protective Services " ( campus police ) you can talk to they can be a great resource if you are willing to strike up a conversation and explain your concerns or situation . On many campuses there are even different types of accommodation . Sometimes there are typical undergrad dorms , buildings dedicated to older/wealthier students ( at my institution they are called " suites " , but this is not a universal term ) , and yet other buildings that are often only rented to graduate-level students and faculty . Some institutions run their dorms strictly , where excess noise need only be reported to a floor-level employee ( often called a " Resident Assistant " ) and they will handle it - and regular offenders are fined and even thrown out without a refund or formal eviction required . Meanwhile , other campuses may features areas of rowdy nightlife where noise and late night drinking and carousing is normal and no one calls the cops ( and campus police are n't terribly bothered unless things get out of hand ) . They do n't put this in brochures or on their webpage , so you ca n't know without visiting and/or talking with the right people who are willing to be a bit more blunt about the realities of campus . Off campus housing is really no different , though ! I once lived in a privately owned house where it was well known ( to people in the area ) that the purple ice cream truck did not sell ice cream - it sold methamphetamine , and the cops did n't bother it so long as it did n't go into certain upper class areas or along the main highway . And yes , this was in the USA and even in a small-mid-sized town . So no matter where you go , especially if you have an ill family member , it 's really advisable that you visit in person , ask around to people who have personal knowledge of common living conditions and experiences , and try to visit during common times that might cause the biggest headaches . Only then can you make an educated decision , rather than making a blind guess and just hoping for the best .
Why not ? What 's the disadvantage ? An afternoon of paperwork ? One extra class you have to take ? Compare that to the advantages : Let 's say you are looking for work , ca n't find any in your chosen field ( medicine ) , and so begin looking to work in a chem lab . Being a " medical lab science " major does n't necessarily mean you know how to do a lot of chemistry , it may just mean you know things about handling biohazards like blood carefully . A hiring manager who does n't know your school or that program does n't know how much or little chem is required for such a major . You ca n't prove you know any chem unless they ask for a transcript or you have relevant work experience . But having " Minor in Chemistry " on your rsum would show that . So you could potentially land a low-level chem lab job easier that way .
I may be suggesting the obvious but it will depend on your program and your level . For a course based masters program with a practical bent I would imagine they would look upon your grades favourably . These tend to include some sort of practical capstone project required to earn the degree . If it 's thesis based , it would tend to imply some theoretical work . For a PhD , expect theory . Really , why else would they be PhDs ? Further , most of the applications I 've seen ( and submitted ) tend to speak to a well rounded applicant profile . They want to know about the work you 've done , volunteer experience , publications , and your academic history . But perhaps most importantly in your situation , they tend to want some form of personal statement outlining why you both want and deserve to be in a program . This would be your opportunity to convince them ; much like a cover letter . I 'm in the western world however , and cant speak to institutions beyond that sphere .
end question
start question
If a journal publishing an article about a software tool requires the software to be freely available , must the article be open access ?
The two are entirely independent . The journal does not require you to make the software open source . It merely requires you to make it free for non-commercial use for at least two full years from the day of submission of the article . It however recommends that you make the source available , preferably via an open source license . But it states that it is even acceptable to simply provide the compiled binary to the editors . ( Presumably to verify that the software does what you report it to do . ) The requirement is only applied to a software if you wish to publish a paper describing a new software tool or a new implementation or algorithm . ( Which seems to be your case as you want to write about a new bioinformatics software . ) The OA publishing option is something else entirely . The default publishing format in the journal is subscriber pays . With payment of additional fees you can purchase the option to make your paper open access , but that is not a requirement . I note that the condition described in point 1 would be evaluated at the time of submission by the editorial board , whereas the possibility of publishing the article open access will not generally be discussed at all until after the paper is accepted .
If your work should be compared to a software tool , then you should compare it to that software tool . Actually comparing , however , can be tricky for a couple of reasons : Closed commercial software often hides its workings , such that it is difficult to tell how it actually operates . Live software projects are a moving target , and features today may be gone tomorrow . Thus , for example , if you were comparing a contextual text search to the methods used by Google , it would be very difficult to do that just in a " related works " section because their methods are hidden and constantly changing . Instead , you 'd need to take experimental data on its behavior in some period ( or cite somebody else who had ) . For this reason , whenever possible it is generally preferable to reference a paper about the software rather than the software per se . Most significant academic software will have an associated website with a section on " how to cite this " or a list of associated papers ( e.g. , <URL> ) , which will give you appropriate sources to cite in your discussion . If there is no such citation available , however , or if the existing citations are not appropriate , then you can cite the tool directly : there are established conventions for citing software tools . I also sometimes cite both a key paper and the live tool , when the tool has expanded well beyond the associated literature .
Besides <URL> , there is <URL> ; and there is also reddit.com . Reddit is most like SE in terms of user interaction , however they have some problems with quality control . It is " open " in the sense that anyone can offer material and make a comment ( review ) : it is " not entirely open " in the sense that authors and reviewers have the option of using a pseudonym , so real identities are usually not known . The other two sites are open in the latter sense , that authors and reviewers are openly identified ( as far as I can tell ) , but peerageofscience requires reviewers to " have published a peer reviewed scientific article in an established international journal , as first or corresponding author " , so it is closed to reviewers without that credential . ( I am not sure about peerevaluation but it does not seem to require any qualifications from reviewers though it does ask you to categorize yourself ) .
How much do I get from it ( as the article 's writer ) ? Nothing . Moreover , through subscription fees , your university is very possibly paying a substantial amount of money for access to your work .
You are generally allowed to publish even in a non-open access journal even if a pre-print is on the arXiv . Most journal copyright agreements explicitly allow the authors to post the article online . Here 's an example of a fairly generous one : The ASL hereby grants to the Author the non-exclusive right to reproduce the Article , to create derivative works based upon the Article , and to distribute and display the Article and any such derivative work by any means and in any media , provided the provisions of clause ( 3 ) below are met . The Author may sub-license any publisher or other third party to exercise those rights . and a less generous one which still allows the author to post a copy online : I understand that I retain or am hereby granted ( without the need to obtain further permission ) rights to use certain versions of the Article for certain scholarly purposes , as described and defined below ( " Retained Rights " ) , and that no rights in patents , trademarks or other intellectual property rights are transferred to the journal . The Retained Rights include the right to use the Pre-print or Accepted Authors Manuscript for Personal Use , Internal Institutional Use and for Scholarly Posting ; and the Published Journal Article for Personal Use and Internal Institutional Use . I 've seen examples where the journal actually did some genuine copyediting beyond what the referee did where the author was n't allowed to post the version that benefited from the copyediting , but could still post the earlier version . So , for most journals , the answer is that you 're allowed to post the article online because it 's specifically allowed by the document they ask you to sign . But it is possible that posting on the arxiv will rule out particular journals that have more restrictive policies .
You could try adapting one of the existing open source licences , with help from your university 's Legal IP team . But a software licence is the wrong tool for the job . One way to do it , is to write a methodology paper . That 's the paper that then gets cited by anyone using your code , or an adapted version of your code , to produce material for subsequent papers . As the paper you published was just about the results you got from the software , I 've got some bad news and some good news for you . The bad news is that you 've got to write another paper . The good news is that this new paper will use work that you 've already done . It will be a methodology paper where you describe the software in detail , providing the source as supplementary information . And that 's what will get cited , by those who use your software . You can also include something such as a bibtex file in with the distribution of your software , to make citation easier : the more you can do to reduce hurdles to citation , the more chance you 've got of getting those citations . Once you 've got the above paper written , the bibtex file should describe that paper . And before then , you can do <URL> : To cite R in publications , use Citation strings ( or BibTeX entries ) for R and R packages can also be obtained by citation ( ) .
What a nice idea ! This professor mentored you in the early days of your studies , so he will be pleased and interested to hear that you are continuing to progress in his favorite topic . Also , consider that your article having been selected to be published is good news for those who work in that area at your institution . So he will be pleased in that regard as well . It 's important to learn to be courageous in this way . You will benefit greatly over the years from ' networking . ' Sharing your good news , by giving him a copy of your publication , is an example of networking . A nice touch would be to write a personal inscription on the copy you plan to give him , thanking him for the mentoring he gave you back in 20xx , and for sparking your first interest in the area . Something like that . The best gift of all is a sincere thank-you .
From a web developer perspective , the only issue I can see is compatibility . If the provided computer does not provide an HTML5-ready browser , the presentation may not work . Unfortunately , having been in labs and lectures with institution-provided computers , there is no guarantee that an IT department has provided the newest browser . While I 'd like to think that people , especially at institutions , are keeping their machines up to date , we have to assume that some machines have been forgotten or have not been maintained . <URL> demonstrates that IE8 , <URL> , is woefully prepared for any HTML5 feature . IE9 has some functionality over IE8 and appears to cover the audio/video portions you require , but only IE10 appears to be HTML5-ready as of last year . I tried the reveal.js demo on IE8 just now . The rotating transitions do n't work at all ( it acts like Powerpoint basically ) , but it was usable . Since there are no videos or audio , I ca n't test those , but a standard presentation would at least be doable even in that browser . It is unlikely that any IE9 - browsers will ever reach full HTML5 support due to the security risks and time drain required , so any attempt to present on an IE8 browser is likely to be bare-bones and equivalent to viewing a PowerPoint . However , this can be largely mitigated with the use of a PortableApp web browser such as <URL> . A small footprint that can be carried around in a flash drive with the presentation . From a student perspective , might appear to be more confusing if you share the files , as it probably is n't just a file , but a source document , the JS , and so on . You will probably need to provide a read-me for being able to view the presentation . I 'm sure everyone here knows how to open and view a PowerPoint , but some of us might stumble a bit with a more complex solution that may depend on multiple files and folders . That , and the student would need an HTML5 browser to get all the features working . You probably will also need to direct PDF copy of the slides because I did n't see any noticeable way to print the presentation unless the stylesheet natively does that from the print menu .
To me an article abstract summarizes the entire article including the overarching questions through methods , results to the major conclusions . A conference abstract will of course also summarize whatever is presented at the conference . The differences lie in several aspects of variable weight : Conferences are often focused on a specific topic so one can be less stringent with the background Conference presentations may involve work in progress and as such the final conclusions maybe quite hazy . The conference abstract may be written before most of the work has actually been done ( this is quite common with some conferences in my field ) and becomes an " advertisement " for what might come . The conference contribution may in some cases involve a paper but can also be a poster or an oral presentation . depending on which abstracts may contain varying levels of finalized conclusions .
It sounds to me like you have unusually advanced skills for a TA , and the professor is quite rationally trying to allocate the resource he has control over ( your time as a TA ) to its maximally productive use . That sounds pretty reasonable from the professor 's point of view . Whether he has a right to assign you this particular sort of work would depend on your institution and department . At my department , TAs sign a contract at the beginning of the quarter which includes a list of the types of work they will be expected to do . If the professor wants to add something that is n't on the standard list , that needs to be discussed prior to that stage . The contract also specifies the number of weekly hours the TA will be working , and obviously the professor needs to respect that limitation as well . Now let 's think of how things look from your point of view . I 'm not exactly sure why you feel taken advantage of for being asked to work on the software project , except for details that sound irrelevant to me , such as : that the professor has previously paid someone for a similar service ( maybe he did not have access to a TA with such qualifications as you ) ; that you would have gotten a higher salary for doing similar work in industry ( but you willingly chose to go into a graduate program and subsist on a grad student stipend for a few years ) ; that you are not paid directly for being a TA but through some kind of indirect funding arrangement ( but you are still committed to doing work as a TA for X hours per week , so I do n't see why that should matter ) . If I make the reasonable assumption that the high-value software development work is more intellectually stimulating than other duties the professor can be assigning you as a TA ( grading papers or other boring gruntwork ) , are you not yourself better off working on the software project ? In that case , could it be that the feeling of being exploited is simply regret for choosing this particular academic path when you could have stayed in industry ? To summarize , my feeling is that unless the work the professor is assigning you is completely outside the scope of work that a TA in your department could be reasonably expected to help with ( which may be the case if you are , say , in a humanities program ) , you are probably not being taken advantage of . But perhaps I misunderstood the situation or your reasoning for being concerned ; if you care to clarify any of the details I will reconsider my position . Edit : I 'm sorry if the OP finds my answer a bit tone deaf . I 'm generally quite sensitive to and concerned by the phenomenon of exploitation of graduate students in academia , as can be seen by perusing my SE history . I think it makes sense to revise my verdict slightly : Jack , you are not being taken advantage of any more than TAs are typically taken advantage of . That is , I do n't find anything unusually exploitative about the software development being discussed here , but the whole system of employing graduate students in academia as cheap labor ( whether it 's calling them TA 's , RA 's or something else ) does carry with it an unpleasant whiff of exploitation . This is well known and recognized by many people ( and has provided fodder for many a web comic ) . So you are right to be at least a little concerned about that -- how much exactly depends on your school . But I think that is off-topic given your specific question . Bottom line is , be aware of your rights , and if your contract says you should only work X hours per week , insist on following that to the letter .
There are two general cases for supplying a URL or DOI for information : Information where a URL is required in order to locate and uniquely identify a source , e.g. , referencing a website or a software distribution . In this case , you must always include the link , typically along with the date retrieved , as the contents at the end of the link may vary over time . Information where a DOI ( or similar persistent link ) is a " nice to have " that gives a fast link directly to the original source , e.g. , referencing a standard journal article . In this case , it is " best practice " to always include the link , but not strictly necessary . Personally , I am lazy , and include DOIs in the second case only when the bibliographic source I 'm pulling from includes them in the reference already -- unless specifically asked for them I will no go through the trouble of looking up what is ( strictly speak ) redundant information . For this same reason , whenever I am hard up against a page limit , the DOIs are the first thing to be deleted , because it is better to delete redundant bibliographic information than to remove content from the text .
I would not suggest to write an email that does only ask for the status of the application before the announced time of selection is over -- even when the email is totally calm and polite . The program has a schedule , the applicants are supposed to know the schedule . However , you may have some other good reason to write an email . As Thomas commented to another answer : A good reason to ask for the status would be an offer for another opportunity . You could also try to find another good question to ask ( but be sure that it is not already answered in the FAQ or wherever ) . Also , you could provide some new relevant information , if there is any ( e.g. some new grades , completed projects , ... ) .
Unless you are banned by a society and forbidden to publish in their journals for some reason ( e.g. plagiarism ) , there are fences between two different journal submission systems . And no rule known to me . However , two aspects require caution : close journals , especially with the same publisher , may have the same editors , area editors , etc. . It is interesting to check the editor list and check for an overlap since reviewers are hard to find , I suspect that a publisher may have a database of all its parts reviewers ( whatever the journal ) . So with a similar paper , the same keywords , you might as well end up with the same reviewer . Who might have mixed feelings about reviewing " the same paper " twice . From what I understand from your question , your paper might have been mildly reviewed , possibility checked by an editor , who made the decision himself . So the second point might be as less concern .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
You could write something like the following . Short and sweet . To the editor , Please find attached an article for consideration for publication in the journal Phytoneuron . I assert that this is an original contribution and it has not been submitted for consideration elsewhere . Could you please acknowledge receipt of this submission ? Best regards , Your name Your Affiliation Title of Article Authors Abstract Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipiscing elit . Proin egestas odio non mi mattis rhoncus . Vivamus ultrices urna a ante tristique pellentesque . Nam tincidunt lacus a mi sollicitudin tincidunt . Curabitur malesuada , quam sit amet iaculis lobortis , enim lacus commodo turpis , nec elementum mauris libero ac enim . Quisque justo mauris , eleifend id ornare vel , luctus eget tellus . Etiam auctor ultrices tincidunt . Curabitur diam nulla , aliquam nec gravida a , consequat non nulla . Cras viverra massa id felis blandit gravida . Pellentesque enim mi , convallis vitae ornare quis , ornare sit amet dolor . Pellentesque velit urna , feugiat non tincidunt in , sollicitudin sed purus . Phasellus laoreet ligula nec odio mattis fringilla . Fusce sed arcu mi . Pellentesque dictum erat sit amet sapien pharetra porta .
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
The time frame to a point where a question can or indeed should be sent varies depending on the typical time for that journal , or of similar journals in your field . To me 2.5 months does not sound too long , a decision after one month sounds very quick if I consider a normal set of reviewers also should make their evaluations in that period . If you think sufficient ( relative to what you perceive as " normal " ) time has passed you can certainly send a short e-mail asking for information . If you have an excuse for asking , in addition of just wanting to know , your mail is far less likely to be perceived as " pushy " . But , regardless , editors will get hit by such mails fairly regularly and despite some of them or the bulk of them being a source of irritation at times , the question is not strange by any means . It is all down to the tone of the mail . The fact that the editor is retired should not affect any aspect of the review procedure so I do not see any reason to take that fact into consideration . The journal must appreciate the work the editor is doing , otherwise the editor would likely not be there .
I really recommend that you start reading the Abstract , by that way you can get rid of some papers that would not be so valuable for your work . After that try to get a quick glimpse at the theoretical background , just to catch if there is some background that you are actually missing and you will need for understanding the article fully . Take your time to read the experimentation part and feel free to jump to the conclusions . Remember that you do not need to read some articles from the first page to the last page , except in some ocassions . There will be some sections that you can clearly jump e.g. the theoretical part , if you have the enough background .
I did a quick search to see what other independent researchers do for Nature journals , which include an author address.Specifically , I searched Google for site : nature.com " author details " " independent researcher " I found that authors who are independent researchers sometimes list just their city for their address , or Independent researcher , City , Country See for example <URL> and <URL> . Some do appear to give their home address , e.g. . <URL> and <URL> .
It depends on the journal . For example , the <URL> instructions for authors state : appropriate institutional review board ( IRB ) review and approval should accompany all studies involving human participants or research material derived from human participants . This information should be clearly stated in the Method section of the manuscript . In addition , the manner in which informed consent was obtained from the study participants ( i.e. , oral , written , online/electronic ) should also be stated in the Method section . If the study was exempted from IRB approval , that information should be indicated in the Method section . Failure to provide this information in the manuscript may result in the manuscript being returned without review . <URL> takes a different approach and does not require the IRB approval to be mentioned in the text ( and may not even allow it ) , but does provide a <URL> , that the author must complete and is provide to reviewers , that deals with IRB approval .
end question
start question
What to do when you have small yet additional results to a submitted paper ?
As Marc says in his comment , the best thing to do is probably to incorporate the new proof into your revision , after you get reviewer feedback . A small extension not worth its own paper is unlikely to make a difference between reject and revise . If you send it now , it may annoy the editor and reviewers . Also , the reviewers will likely be just fine with more new material you add in revision .
In an engineering paper , it 's not appropriate to have lengthy , non-novel symbolic computations in the body of the article . The requirement however , is that your readers are able to reproduce it in some way . Here are a few options : Write all symbolic computations formally in an appendix to the paper . If you obtained the results with a software ( free or commercial ) , give the exact name and version of the software you used together with all the necessary parameters you used in the methods section . I do n't think there is anything to be ' guilty ' about using a faster , controlled way of solving maths providing you know what you are doing . If you obtained the results with a piece of code , make it available in some ways ( like a public repository or your institution 's website ) . This can sometimes also be done by submitting it to the journal with your article , but few engineering journals host code . This being said , it 's very uncommon to see symbolic maths solved with software in the engineering literature ( I do n't think I ever read it in any paper ) . Generally either the concept is well-documented and does not warrant a formal proof in the context ( e.g. do n't copy the Fourier theorem every time you do an FFT ) or it 's application-specific and should be written formally .
Why not ask your supervisor to give you examples of what editing he wants done and see if its something you can do on your own ? If you 've worked on the paper up to the 5th draft , it seems a shame to then allow someone else to take the credit for your own hard work . You can also read some good books on academic style of writing . Depending on your field , I can recommend this <URL> . I 'm sure there are <URL> . So in summary , if I were in your shoes I would do it on my own . I 'm sure good writing skills is something that 's valued even in most jobs .
Some journals implement a double-blind reviewing process , meaning that the reviewers are not aware that the authors are from academia or not , and only the scientific content is judged . That being said , it 's worth mentioning that it would be hard for someone without a proper " paper-writing " training ( such as the one one can acquire in academia ) , to produce a paper that would be accepted by reviewers . Some general structure is expected , such as related Works , critical discussion , rigorous methodology , and I would say that without that , it would be hard to get the paper published ( I have myself rejected papers from graduate students , not because the idea itself was bad , but because the structure and the presentation were not meeting the standards one could expect for a scientific publication ) . EDIT : After reformulation of the question , assuming that the quality of the paper makes it indistinguishable from any other paper , then , no , as far as I know , there is no general policy regarding the official affiliation of the author ( s ) . For instance , in Computer Science , it 's not rare to see papers published by people working in a " normal " company ( i.e. not a research company ) , typically on some concrete problems/solutions they have found . Some people even keep publishing after starting their own startup , and therefore the affiliation is something like " MyCompanyWeb2 .0 " .
Different communities mean different things by " application . " In a very mathematical community , " application " may mean " figuring out what relevance this idea might have to something in the real world . In a very industrial community , " application " may mean " has been deployed at industrial scale . " The relative scale of theory and application is also nicely illustrated in <URL> . I think that you are doing the right thing by looking at past proceedings and asking , " Are these people interested in talking about work like mine ? " This is important not just for getting your paper accepted , but also for the value that you will get out of the meeting , both in terms of the feedback you get and also in terms of what you can learn and the connections that you can build . For a more efficient route to finding a good community , you can also talk to your advisor or other mentors you may have , who will likely know the communities better and readily be able to provide good suggestions about where to send your paper .
A common approach is to have separate sections in your CV listing academics works by type . I.e. , thesis , peer reviewed journal articles , peer reviewed full text conference proceedings , book chapters , books , conference presentations , etc. . Particularly for early career researchers , it is common to also include journal articles that are under review . These should be presented in a section distinct from published journal articles and should generally indicate what stage of review they are in ( e.g. , submitted , revise and resubmit , etc. ) . It is also often useful to make each section a numbered list , so readers can quickly ascertain how many works you have of each type . Using this approach you would list the journal article under the journal article section of your CV ( or in the " submitted journal articles " section as the case may be ) and list the conference presentation under the conference presentation section of your CV . Typical readers of an academic CV will know how to interpret this . In general ( and this may vary by discipline ) , journal articles ( and other full-text works ) speak to your lasting academic contribution . In contrast , conference presentations show that you are actively presenting your work . Typically , people evaluating your CV ( e.g. , for a job , promotion , grant , etc. ) would give different weight to different sections . Thus , organising your academic output by sections makes their job easier .
The reason why you 're publishing is because you think you have a new way of doing things that is better than the old way of doing things . Simply publishing a derivation of the new way is n't sufficient to convince people of that fact . You need to convince people that your new way is better . So yes , your derivation is a simple one to two paragraphs , but in addition to that you should spend several paragraphs explaining why your new way is better . Why was the old way used ? Why were n't the deficiencies not considered a problem until now ? ( Or if they were , how were they addressed with the old way , and why is your way better ? ) What are some of the objections that the people used to doing it the old way will raise ? Why might they not want to switch to your new way ? What do you say to those potential objections ? Are there possible use cases might your new way not be appropriate for , and if so , how do you choose between the old way and the new way ? You 'll probably also want to spend several paragraphs in an introduction , explaining how the field got to the old way , and outlining the deficiencies . You probably also want to include and example of using your new way , comparing it to the old way , illustrating why the new way is better . Basically , you think your paper is too short because you 're planning on just presenting the derivation and assuming its merits are obvious to others . They wo n't be . In all likelihood you 'd be chewed up in review - not because your paper is too short , but because you wo n't have convinced the reviewers that your new method is worthwhile . Fleshing out the paper with necessary background and discussion to presents a coherent argument for your new method can easily take you into the 1-2 page range which is the typical size of " brief communications " ( depending on field , journal , etc. ) Do n't pad your article just to increase its size , but do n't omit things which will bolster the arguments in favor of your new method . Edit : In response to comments , here 's an attempt at clarification : An academic paper is not just about presenting results . It 's also about presenting a story and an argument . How does this result change the field ? How should it change how the readers think about the topic ? I 'm guessing that the original questioner thinks their paper is only one to two paragraphs because they were anticipating presenting just the short proof/derivation of the new figure of merit . My point was that the proof itself is insufficient for a decent paper . In addition to the proof you also need to convince the reader that the new figure of merit is better than the old one - and to do so for people who may be unaware that there was anything wrong with the existing way in the first place . Doing this properly can easily extend the paper from 1-2 paragraphs into a size which is more typical for a standard journal article . Write a proper paper , and it 's no longer " too small to be publishable " .
My advisor , at two different points in my academic career , said : " I am your advisor for life . You can always count on me . " " I think it 's time for my old students to start finding new people to comment on their work . " I took away from this that your advisor should always be available at some level , it 's part of the point of taking on students . You are part of their scientific ( or otherwise scholarly ) contribution . At the same time , post-PhD you have to develop your own network of support , which is part of your growth as a scholar . But how do you know when to do this ? I think the best answer is simply to ask your advisor ( see , they 're always there to answer the hard questions ) . Hopefully they 'll give you an honest opinion - either to keep asking them for help or that they think you 're ready to fly on your own . Either , if you do n't feel confident that you have enough peers to count on , it 's probably a sign that you both can still ask your advisor for help and that it 's time to put some more energy into expanding your professional network .
Step 1 : Do n't panic I was in a similar situation halfway through my MSc . I was in a panic , sure that my academic career was in ruins . My supervisor calmed me down , reminded that a negative result was still a result , and and told me that a for a master 's degree , it was not strictly required that I make a scientific contribution or have a publication . In the worst case , in my thesis I would present my negative results , explain why this technique did n't work , and suggest what could be done differently by future researchers . ( Once I was relaxed enough to think clearly , I came up with new things to try , and everything worked out grand . ) I suggest you discuss the " worst case scenario " with your supervisor ; you 'll probably find out it 's not as bad as you think . Remember that this is research : positive results are not guaranteed . Step 2 : Think about why this technique is n't working . I 'm sure you 've learned something about why your technique is n't working . That should give you some ideas for what to try next . If you 're out of ideas , sit a friend down and explain everything to them . The friend does n't need to know anything about machine learning ; they 're just a sounding board . The naive questions they ask may give you ideas . Maybe you need a week off to recharge your batteries . Step 3 : Try something new . Take those new ideas you got in step 2 , and apply them . But now that you 're more experienced , think about how you could find out more quickly if the idea is feasible , so you can change tack again if needed .
As so often , this may be field-specific , so I 'm giving a CS perspective : Posters are not full papers . Often , it is totally acceptable that a poster presents work in progress , or preliminary results . While a paper adds some vague hints to separate future steps in continuing the research after presenting a finished contribution , on a poster , that can well be the other way round . Therefore : Use the opportunity to show what you have done so far and where you want to go from there on your poster . Reconsider what the gist of the poster is - you may have to give up the plan that the poster is about your results , and switch the focus of your poster to talking about your research process . That way , you can present the goal of your poster to collect comments and suggestions on how to retrieve some meaningful results in the direction you 're interested in . Like this , you are not presenting just so you can present , you are presenting because it is the best way to get concrete comments by other researchers . Of course , it depends on what exactly you have written in your poster abstract . If you explicitly said there that the poster will focus on results , the situation may be more problematic .
Edited : I found a better answer to the question , the original indicative answer is left below . <URL> , we have a statement from December 2006 regarding the number of submissions , rate of editor rejections and ultimate acceptance number . While slightly outdated , the acceptance rate of Nature journal does not seem to fluctuate widely between 2006 and 2012 ( always around 7-8 % of submitted articles ) , hence I believe the number is significant and valid : Nature receives approximately 10,000 papers every year and our editors reject about 60 % of them without review . ... ... In the end we publish about 7 % of our submissions . From that we have , that in 2006 about 40 % of submissions were sent out for peer-review . The original indicative answer : Not a precise answer , but can be indicative also for Nature journal itself : <URL> is a statistics of a decade 2002-2012 of publishing in Nature Materials in numbers , various stats are presented . Specifically <URL> shows that the ratio of peer-reviewed vs. submitted manuscripts is floating around 13 % . Out of peer-reviewed , about 60 % get accepted . This shows that their first filter , the editorial decision whether to review at all , is extremely aggressive and in fact is the filter in the publishing process . According to a note <URL> , Nature Neuroscience sends about 30-35 % papers for peer-review .
Keeping in time is mandatory In general , you can expect to be cut off if you are over the time limit , so you definitely should shorten your presentation - it 's very likely that important parts of your talk are at the end so it 's very important not to lose the ending ! In most fields , presentations are very , very different from the actual content of the paper - if someone wants to read the paper , they can do so at any time ; but the presentation should cover why they 'd want to read your paper afterwards and also explain things that might be easier to show or demonstrate rather than read about . Even if in your field tradition is to read the paper as-is , that is optional but keeping the schedule is mandatory . I would suggest to reduce some parts that describe the background/foundation/earlier results which would be known by the conference attendees but might be less known for a general reader of your paper . You should mention earlier work , but you do n't need to go into detail about that even if you do so in your paper . Keep the focus of your talk on the novel parts of your paper , and also make sure cover in detail the motivation of this research and it 's wider context in your field .
It should be the case that material are not dependent on brand and location , but in many cases , especially the biological sciences , they are . This is wrong and bad , but is also simply the state of the science at present , in areas that have not yet had standards and mechanisms for certifying those standards . For example , something as apparently " simple " as DNA synthesis has no established quality control standards , so when somebody uses DNA supplied by an industrial supplier , which supplier can really make a difference ! The same is notoriously true for reagents as well -- to the point where people will often put down not just the brand but the batch number . So , how do you know when you need to reference the brand name ? There are two answers to this which are , unfortunately , somewhat contradictory : Scientifically , you need to put it down whenever the expected variance in materials from supplier to supplier is might make a significant difference in the results that are observed . If you do n't know whether it will make a difference , you need to put it down . Note that this is also strongly dependent on the size of the effect that you are measuring : if you predict and observe a function with high precision and minimal variance , then the materials are much less likely to matter than if you are observing a 10 % variation in a noisy system and had to apply a significance test to determine that the result actually existed . From a cultural perspective , you need to put the brand name down anywhere that reviewers in your field will expect to see a brand name , whether or not it is appropriate . You can learn this by looking at papers , but it wo n't necessarily tell you what the scientific truth is , because there are often unsupported assumptions embedded in this cultural practice . The conservative approach , of course , is to give brand for the union of both , and that 's a reasonable strategy . As methods progress , however , we should move toward the point where the mechanisms and experimental methods are well enough established that the effects of the incidental experimental circumstances can be minimized ...
I varies with fields and journals . Some journals do allows posting preprints on one 's webpage , or on a preprint server . Some not , but they do n't care . ( And some academicians do put their papers on their websites , even if it is against rules . ) Some do n't allow and do care , so putting the preprint on your webpage may disqualify you from publishing this work . ( If it fits your discipline , why not using <URL> ? )
I would use some of the following : submitted under review submitted to ... and do not stress that there is already a revision going on . Even revised papers may get rejected , so being in revision is no guarantee to get the paper published . I also would not state the journal to which the paper is submitted to because I do not see how this says anything about the quality of the paper . If you think , that the paper is good and interesting for whoever reads the CV , make it available as a preprint and provide a link . I myself have a section " Preprints " in my CV where I list submitted but not published papers with links to the arXiv and add the line " submitted , month , year " .
The <URL> says that information on the outcome of the evaluation will be available in February 2016 . For reference : I applied in the previous round ( the timeline was the same give or take a few days ) and received a notice that the proposal was approved in the beginning of February . There was no communication before that , so I would n't read anything into that .
If this is an informal request for internal review -- definitely go ahead . It is common practice to have close associates review work , and your thoughtful comments will gain you respect . If this is a formal invitation from a journal -- it is a clear conflict of interest . It probably should never have been sent to you , quite honestly . This is not to say you could n't provide an unbiased , thoughtful review , but to an outsider this would really be questionable . I suggest you take the high road , decline the invitation , and send a letter to the action editor reminding him of your close association .
First contact the authors of the paper , and discuss the issue with them . When the flaw is small and does not affect their results too much , they might simply put an erratum on their website . When they are unwilling to do so , let it rest ( it is a small flaw ) . When the error is significant , you might co-publish together with the original authors a new conference article that addresses this ( it might even be called ' Erratum on paper XYZ ' )
On the one hand , it shows that you are engaged in this necessary part of scientific research that is peer-review . That 's one of the major reasons why people list it . If your CV is being viewed as part of a performance review or hiring decision , or even for awards , this constitutes " service to the community " and indicates that you 're a good citizen . It 's a noisy signal for the reasons you indicate , and so it does n't carry a whole lot of weight compared to things like technical committee memberships and leadership roles , but it 's part of the larger picture . Moreover , for more junior researchers who have n't yet had the chance to take on leadership roles , this is a good signal of service .
Learning is a life long activity . Graduating with a PhD is not a license to stop learning , it 's a license to ( eventually ) get paid to do research and learn more :)
end question
start question
Completing a PhD sooner : what does it take ?
The first thing you need to ask yourself is : do you really want a PhD ? At its core a PhD is nothing more and nothing less than " vocational education for researchers " . In a PhD program you will learn about and get some experience in doing real research . If you do n't want to become a researcher , then what is the value to you ? There is the status that some feel comes attached with the title , but is that really worth a couple of years of your life ? Assuming you really want to go through with this , then you need to realize that it will take at least 3 years and probably more . That is a long time , so you need to approach that more like a marathon than as a sprint . So do n't go in and start burning the midnight oil , because you will only burn out yourself before you are done with your PhD . This is a very common mistake among PhD students . The only PhD student I know who made it in about 3 years had a completely different approach . She had a plan that was realistic , and she stuck to it . Making a realistic plan for your thesis is very hard . She managged because she already had experience doing research and was already well versed in her topic . She was also extremely disciplined in how she managed her time , and this ment that while at work she worked very hard , but she would not work in the evenings and not work in the weekends . She was able to work that hard and that focussed for 3 years on end because she did not work in the evenings and in the weekends . I am not that person . I whish I was that disciplined , but I am not , and it took me 7 years to finish my PhD ...
At least in the US , a Ph.D committee will have 4-5 members , and there are rules about the composition of the committee ( there might need to be at least one person from an external institution , and at least one person from a different department , or variations thereof ) . The committee 's formal job is to assess the Ph.D student 's dissertation proposal , determine that the work being proposed is sufficient for a dissertation , and then evaluate the final dissertation defense and decide whether to grant the student a Ph.D or not . Informally , a Ph.D committee provides a set of resources/expertise for the student to tap into for advice , research directions and even contacts for future work ( yes , there 's life after a Ph.D :) ) . There 's <URL> on how to choose your committee .
The h-index is a measure of the impact of someone 's publication list . An h-index of 10 for example means that the person has published 10 papers with at least 10 citations . The total number of papers published may be higher , but only 10 will have 10 or more citations . Critics argue that this measure disadvantages young researchers who did not have time to publish a lot and whose work has not been published for long and thus may not have attracted many citations . Other criticisms include that it makes a researcher focus on how to increase the citation count for a paper that may be not that good but would increase the h-index . For more explanation , see for example the <URL> .
There is no problem in citing a conference paper in a PhD thesis . When selecting literature that you want to use in your scientific work , it is not uncommon to take the reputation of the hosting medium ( journal , conference , etc ) into account . The examiners of your thesis might question the quality of the work that you are citing when it origins from dubious sources . But that holds for dubious conferences , as well as for dubious journals . There are , however , many conferences with an excellent reputation . And there is no reason why you should not cite papers that have been published there . Furthermore , when you make use of a work ( paper or anything else ) that comes from a less established source , you are still obligated to refer to this work . After all , we want things to be verifiable in science . You might even cite a source that you are disagreeing with . Sometimes , an extended version of the conference paper is published as a journal paper , and then you may prefer to cite the journal paper instead .
From my perspective admitting students to CS PhD programs : TAing for CS classes will be a small positive signal that you did well in those classes and were well thought of by the instructor ( who presumably asked you to be his TA , or at least accepted your application ) . It might also let you get to know the professor teaching the class better , which will be helpful for your application if he/she can write you a letter of recommendation . But beyond that , it wo n't be a huge bonus in and of itself -- its mostly a signal correlated with other good things .
It 's the first conference in a series , or the conference that launches a project , or some other kind of start to something . Definition from Google : noun : kick-off a start of an event or activity . synonyms : beginning , start , commencement , launch , outset , opening " breakfast on the boat was a great kickoff to the weekend " <URL> of usage in the context of a conference ( emphasis mine ) : On September 2-4 2015 , the FIRES project was officially launched with the kick off meeting and conference organized in Berlin , in the Science and Technology Park in Adlershof .
First : a few people commented that thinking about your postdoc/Habilitation before even starting your Ph.D. is premature . I disagree . I have seen too many people coast along during their Ph.D. time without ever knowing what they are going to do afterwards , and certainly not preparing for their post-Ph . D. time , whether in academia or in industry . So I would say you demonstrate good long-term thinking . Already thinking about your academic career will help you prepare to work out a research program , network ( more on this below ) etc. . Second : there is no problem whatsoever with changing advisors between the Ph.D. and the postdoc period . To the contrary ! If you stay at the same place for almost ten years , you will need to explain why you never moved , never checked out other places to work , other approaches to research . Many , many ( most ? ) people will switch advisors at least once , or possibly even do postdocs in two different places . Incidentally , this is why I think it is a good thing you are already thinking about your long-term future now , because it is never too early to start meeting people at conferences with your future in mind . You may just meet someone at your first conference who you could collaborate with or spend your postdoc time with . So I would definitely recommend that you consider the older potential advisor . He sounds like he could introduce you to lots of people , and you will likely not need to pack up and move somewhere else during your Ph.D. period , which seems possible with the younger professor and which could somewhat mess up your personal life . Of course , these considerations are all not the highest priority . You should definitely keep other aspects in mind in choosing where to do your Ph.D. , like the kind of project you would be doing for either of the two professors , or whether the two of you " click " on a personal level , or what financing there is , or <URL> . Finally , there is no Habilitation in Germany any more . Nowadays , Germany has moved to a more American style in academic careers . You will do a Ph.D. , then a postdoc , then usually a Juniorprofessur ( roughly , assistant professorship - not tenured and limited to six years ) , then get your Ruf to a tenured position . It 's quite possible to skip the Juniorprofessur , though .
There are usually 4 ways to pay for a PhD in my experience in the US : Out of pocket with your own money or with loans Get a fellowship or scholarship Be a Teaching Assistant Be a Graduate Research Assistant None of these are necessarily mutually exclusive . TA and GRAships usually come with a whole or partial tuition waiver or payment of tuition . Fellowships and scholarships may come from the university , another government entity ( e.g. the US National Science Foundation or Department of Energy ) , or a private source . In my estimation , a GRA or fully-funded private fellowship is the best way to pay for graduate school for those whose focus is research because there are no teaching or grading responsibilities to take time away from working on your research . If you intend to go on to a professorship , starting with a TA for the first few semesters or years may help you learn something about teaching , but I would n't have wanted the TA responsibilities during the time I was writing up my dissertation . Myself , I had a GRA with my full tuition paid plus a small privately endowed fellowship administered by my university which supplemented my income . Also , at the time , having a GRA position gave me health insurance . TA and GRA jobs are usually limited to 20 hours a week during the long semesters in the US since you are likely to be in classes at the same time . My advisor frequently upped me to 40 hours per week during the summer and winter breaks to supplement my income further . Paying your own way , whether with fellowships , loans , or your own personal savings means that you are n't being paid by the advisor . A GRA position may be required to focus on a particular research project that funds the existence of the position . If the money comes from their start-up package or a private source , then you may be given much more freedom in your choice of research work , but either way , the GRA position is a job that allows the advisor to direct your work much more than if you fund yourself .
A number of people have correctly told you ( I can see the article ) that this is a collection of mathematical puzzles , rather than a research paper . So let me tell you a little more about this type of article . Martin Gardner is considered by many to be the biggest popularizer of recreational mathematics in the 20th century ( perhaps ever ) . For 25 years ( 1956-1981 ) , he wrote a column for Scientific American called <URL> . Many of his columns have been collected into books ( such as <URL> ) . Some other well-known examples of similar writing include that of <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
It would n't be unethical for your boss to fire you 8 months after you take the job , if he wanted to . Labor is an exchange you and your employer enter into voluntarily . So , you should n't feel bad quitting after 8 months if you want to . It 's not an ethical problem at all . It is more plausible to think there might be a personal problem if this is a small industry that you would plan to re-enter after finishing the degree . Do n't tell your boss up front that you might quit in 8 months , that is n't any of his business . If you do accept an offer to do a phd somewhere , then you should tell him promptly , just as a matter of courtesy . This is to allow the company adequate time to find a replacement .
The MA glass ceiling is real . I ca n't talk specifically to the situation at a Canadian technical college , but the same thing happens in the DC policy world I work in . A lot of think tanks and policy shops have researchers with years of experience who ca n't get promoted above a certain point that is practically entry level for incoming PhDs . Some places are starting to address this , recognizing that a PhD is not better than years of successful research experience , but it 's still a wide-spread phenomenon . So , I would n't be at all surprised to find out you do n't have any recourse . If anything it 's likely to be a harder ceiling since you 're actually at an academic institution . As for whether taking the time off to do a PhD is worth it , which I think is the root of your question ? That 's hard to answer . You could run down some hypothetical bullet points : If I did the PhD , and then got the SAME job at the same pay after , would it still be worth it ? That is , would the accomplishment on its own be gratifying ? If I did the PhD , and then got a better job but no more money , would it still be worth it ? That is , would getting through that glass ceiling be enough of a motivator ? How much more money would I expect to make after my PhD , and how much money would I be giving up by leaving the job market for 4-6 years , and would I be coming out ahead ? Also account for whether you can get funding for your PhD or would have to self-fund it all . In other words , the pure economics of it ( you say it would be a financial burden , but that 's not necessarily so in the long run ) . All other things aside , am I willing to make the sacrifices necessary ? You would likely have to temporarily give up lots of things to do this , like having disposable income and the ability to relax on nights and weekends . If you have a family that can be a hard adjustment , though lots of people do it , myself included . Good luck ! My overarching piece of advice would be that if you 're not passionate for the subject you should n't do a PhD in it . But if you can tick that box off , the rest is up to your preferences .
To answer some of your questions , a lot of this will vary from university to university , and vary by location . One major aspect is to determine your research focus as early as possible and plan long and medium term objectives , and how these objectives are to be met at the beginning , in consultation with your advisors ( that is the advice I was given ) . Duration There is usually an upper limit of how long a student can take to complete the dissertation , and it is generally expected that the research , experiments , dissertation write up is performed within the time frame dictated by the university . Note , the length of time taken to complete the PhD is not necessarily a measure of how credible it is . ( I completed my PhD in Physics in 2.5 years ) . Papers are often published in consultation between you and your advisor ( s ) . But , during my PhD I was advised that it is a good idea to get some publications completed while you are studying ( I completed 4 while completing the research ) . Courses This varies between universities and places , for example , I was not required to take any courses whatsoever - just pure research . That is something you will need to check with any university you apply to . I did my PhD while working full time in an unrelated field , so I arranged regular ( fortnightly ) Skype meetings with my advisors , where short term goals were set and the medium and long term goals checked up on . As you are doing sciences by the looks of it , it will involve a considerable amount of experimentation ( potentially ) - some of it can be tedious , make sure you plan and get into that as soon as possible , while ensuring you get the most accurate possible data in a safe and efficient manner . Completion You complete your research when you have met your objectives and have , through research and experimentation , ' answered ' your research focus . What happens then varies between universities , some you will be expected to defend your thesis , and some , as in my case , your thesis is peer-reviewed . Once all that is done and your advisors and the university are satisfied , you will be told that you have passed ( in my case , I received a letter stating as such ) . But , the research never really ends , once you have that passion for that topic - you may find that the research continues , but now to be published as papers ( this also has been my experience ) . Find a topic that ignites the fire in you and you 'll find that the PhD is just the start of the journey . Finally and critically , make sure what you are doing is something that you find fascinating , something that you wo n't mind putting in many hours of research and work into . Choose something that is either your passion or something related to it . Get ready to challenge yourself on a regular basis . I hope this helps .
OK I must also point out before you read the rest of the answer that the Editorial decision has not come yet and this is likely the Editorial decision after minor processing ( sorting , subject headings , keyword checks ( maybe/maybe not ) ) and a Technical editor shortlisting it for further review when the editor decides on how to proceed ( EE decision ) This is now Obviously the Editorial Decision . He can send it for review if it is a blind peer to peer review journal or reject it outright . Thus the EE decision would be completed by the editor or designated person after going through the paper and deciding if he has to send it to a reviewer , if he has reviewers for the subject matter , if he can return directly to the author for modifications/rewrites or if he wants to accept it for publication ( unlikely without a blind peer to peer review .
First a disclaimer : I personally do not agree with some " ways of life " I am going to describe and already upvoted other answers :-) . is it possible to be a researcher without concerning about " Publish or perish " ? YES , albeit probably only in atypical settings . firstly , at this site , we tend to forget that academia is not only the first league of the few top-notch research universities , but includes a MASS of smaller universities and research institutes in all sorts of small , hidden corners of the world which tend either not to produce academic output in terms of journal articles , books , conference papers , etc. , but at which they live and breath by e.g. , primarily education , local politics , etc. . Yet , on paper they claim to do research , so working there , you would be officially a researcher . I am speaking for instance about universities in countries , where rigorous science and high education , for whatever reasons , does not have a very strong tradition . At such places , doing research would resemble a kind of a <URL> . Most often , at least at some stage in the career , you still need to publish something . E.g. a dissertation would probably suffice . But often an interview with such a researcher in a local newspaper would count at the place more than a first-class academic journal . Being coined an expert on X by the local media a single time would allow you to survive at such a university for a decade ( at any level from a PhD student to a Full Professor ) without being concerned with perishing . If there is a desperate lack of teaching staff , then you do not have to care even for being any good teacher either and you would n't perish . I know personally people who are are doing some research ( or at least everybody around says so ) for decades without moving from a place and without publishing even a technical report and do not perish . to a more optimistic note , though being pedantic now , you can easily be a researcher and not publish in the industry . Many industrial researchers do not primarily work for the benefit of the humankind ( as you could see said in academia ) , but for the benefit of a company . finally , I speculate there could be some special professorship positions where you do not have to worry about publishing anymore , because you are not about to perish anymore .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> and other indexing services have their own ways how the papers get into their database . For Scopus , the journal has to be registered there , and then actively send the data . It 's similar for Web of Knowledge I think . Google gets the data from who-knows-where and I doubt you can control it efficiently . In general , it takes couple weeks to several months . As dgraziotin pointed out in comments , Google Scholar indexes citations from <URL> quite quickly , in couple days . However , by many people and many institutions , arXiv papers are not considered at all regarding citations , unless they are published properly elsewhere and properly Journal-ref ' ed ; even then , many people do n't trust that the arXiv version is correct , because nobody makes any check of this ( I mean , you can put whatever Journal-ref to whatever your arXiv paper , so it 's not trusted ) .
It could be either , but it usually goes back to the reviewers that requested the major modifications . Whoever the editor sent it to , it means that it is being reviewed again in full .
There are a lot of reasons why a professor may publish a paper without co-authors : ( 1 ) he did the research by himself and wanted it to get all the credit for that research instead of sharing it with some co-authors that he could have invited on his paper , ( 2 ) he did not have students , ( 3 ) he does not have good social skills or his project appear uninteresting to others and thus he could not find collaborators ... In general , it is beneficial to have collaborators . They have different ideas which can improve the quality of the paper , and they can help carrying the reearch and writting and thus reduce the amount of work by the main author . Thus the main author can then do more research . Some researchers will see it as a negative point if an author has too many papers by himself and do not collaborate .
The other answers make good suggestions for the asking of questions or posing ideas to professors . Most professors are open to questions and new ideas . I personally love it when my students come to me with something that I had n't thought of before . As for getting recognition , it depends on the relationship between the Ph.D. student and the professor . If you , as a grad student , ask a poignant question at a visiting professor 's lecture , and then the professor returns and gets his or her group working on the matter , the you will very likely not receive any further communication about the matter . You will , however , be able to determine if your question had an effect when the publication came out . If nothing else , you can have that warm little feeling that something came of your question . If you , as a senior graduate student , pitch something to your adviser that is relevant to your project , your adviser should listen . At some point you know more about your project than your adviser does . I pitched many things to my adviser over the years . Sometimes I was shot down , and then did them anyway . One of my questions , however , transformed the direction of my thesis work . I started and finished a whole new project in my last year based on an idea I pitched . Senior graduate students weighing in on other projects going on in their group also tend to get listened to , and occasionally acknowledged in the publication for " helpful discussions . " Yes , sometimes those names are graduate students . For one example I know of , see the acknowledgements in <URL> . " The authors would like to thank ... ... Mr. Benjamin N. Norris for helpful discussions . "
I do n't think this is quite true in Germany either - or at least not in the generality that I read into your question . Here is <URL> ( Promotionsordnung ( PhD bylaws ) for psychology and sport , Muenster ) , and another randomly selected <URL> ( Promotionsordnung math , Bonn ) . Both stipulate much more restrictive conditions that relate to your question . They somewhat overlap , but not completely - so there is also no uniform answer for Germany . Simply stepping away from a PhD early on would not be a problem in either case . The restrictions on the number of attempts to be successfully awarded a PhD are as follows : Example 1 : you get one and one only attempt to resubmit a declined thesis , and to re-take the oral defense each Example 2 : no restrictions are mentioned on the number of failed thesis attempts . You get one attempt to re-take a failed defense In particular given that even these two sources do n't agree , you just need to pull your program 's Promotionsordnung , and confirm which rules apply to you .
The reason why it is difficult to tell what workshops are about is because it is a catch-all category that many different types of academic meeting are labelled as . To illustrate , let me give examples of the nature of some of the events that I have attended in the last two years that all use the same word " workshop " to describe themselves : A " baby conference " attached to a full-size conference , where the small meeting simply is n't large enough to meet on its own yet . A project meeting for researchers who are all funded by the same large grant A planning and discussion session aimed at helping determine the direction of a field A joint industry/academia fact-finding meeting sponsored by an industry consortium A specialty conference attended by around 100 people A premier conference attended by several hundred people A working meeting by a standards development group The length of these meetings ranged from a single afternoon to a full week . Their programs ranged from nothing but loosely structured discussion to a full-on tightly packed conference schedule . The level of peer review ranged from non-applicable to minimal to full-on single-blind review and revision . In short : a workshop is whatever it wants to be , and different ones serve different purposes in the academic ecosystem .
end question
start question
I have no publications or professional experience , will my short CV look bad for US graduate admissions ?
It definitely is n't unheard of to have a short resume/CV coming out of undergrad . Also , having just one page is perfectly fine and is actually about what I would expect from most people . If you must fill space , I usually recommend adding course projects or personal projects relevant to your field .
Yes it definitely can be done . If you have an idea then do a literature review of the subject and if you have a contribution that builds on the activity in one of the journals you find then publish there . Perhaps also look into doing a conference paper first . See <URL> for the difference between the two . The best co-author for your case would probably be a professor or grad student at your university . No , co-authors are not required . They can be useful though if you need their help/skills in the project . In computer science , journal papers usually occur during one 's PhD . Bright Masters and Honours students usually start publishing conference papers , but journal papers are not unheard of .
Nope , and I doubt anyone would notice or care . Everyone can be a member , all it takes is a bit of money .
In terms of status-enhancement or proof of merit , the actual giving of the talk is of almost no consequence . The invitation is the thing that " proves " status and merit ( such as they may be ) . So , yes , list it , all the more considering that you probably do n't have many such episodes to put on your CV . For that matter , if you yourself had some ( unfortunate , presumably ) reason to cancel from your end , still , you did get the invitation . From their end , to cancel your talk after issuing the invitation would be a fairly severe gaucherie ... so I 'd bet it wo n't happen . Even if it did , almost-surely the official reason would be some funding problems , not that they 've discovered that you 're a poseur and a bad person , etc. . So the status and virtue leading to the original invitation are not diminished . Being invited to give presentations is a kind of proof of one 's relevance to the research community . There are rumors of " an internet " , supposedly allowing easy , massive , long-distance asynchronous communication without the expenses and perils of long-distance personal travel , but until that possibility is assimilated into the academic community ... much like the notion that " publication " could mean literal publication , rather than running a status-and-merit gauntlet ... :) Joking ( ??? ) aside , it 's not the literal giving of the talk , and is not the literal publication in refereed journal , that confer status or prove merit , but the invitation ( resp . acceptance ) .
If you do not have publications ( including papers " in press " ) then the publications list can be left empty . If you have papers . You can , however add headings for publications " under review " , if you have any or " manuscripts in preparation " , again , if you have any . You may also have unpublished reports of different types . Such contributions can also be listed under a separate heading . What can be included is difficult to say but in my case , I used to include annual reports I had to write to a super-computer center and a research station , both which were collated with others and printed by the organising body . So any report sitting in a drawer is not valid . Obviously the a " manuscript in preparation " will not be very strong but it will at least indicate that something is ongoing . But , note that a manuscript in preparation should be something worth reading to make it to such a list . In a situation like yours any written material prepared for some official body and with some distribution , can be used to indicate your activities . There is a grey zone which is undefinable ( which is why one generally avoids such listings later in the career ) , so do not put in anything . In short , you need to be able to show these " claims " .
In a one-sentence statement , I want to state as precisely and concisely as possible as much relevant detail about the project I was working on . For instance Analysis of Widget Manufacturing does n't tell me much about what you did . On the other hand In-situ XYZ Experiments and Numerical Modeling of the Parametric Influence of Temperature , Humidity , and Cooling Time on the Strength of Widget X under Load-Bearing Conditions tells me much more about the problem you 're working on . If you have perhaps a paragraph , then I went a short summary of your work . You should provide : a motivation for the problem , an overview of what you did , and a summary of the main methods , results , and conclusions of the work .
Google scholar works pretty well , though with all of these things there are edges cases that cause problems ( non unique names , random poster presentations showing up counting as citations , etc. ) I find that ResearchGate tends to be pretty good . People can comment , annotate , and more generally fix up the metadata issues on this site in a social media style , and so it tends to be pretty accurate . However , since it 's still quite new most papers are missing from its databases ( though it still tends to count citations correctly ? ) .
There is substantial variation between universities , and to an extent departments within a university , about what counts towards tenure . The best way to find out is to ask your department chair , a mentor , or someone on the tenure and promotions committee about what counts . That said , there are ethics regarding what affiliations should be listed on publications . If your " pending publications " are in press or far along the review process , it would be unethical to switch your affiliation . If you are still writing the manuscript , or the reviews require a major revision , and you do additional work while at your new university , then it would be appropriate to add an additional affiliation .
As an admissions-committee person for an R1 math dept , this would look to me like an obsessive-compulsive waste of time . For most people the years they 're in undergrad school are an enormous transition , and things that happen freshman year are ( hopefully , and , mercifully ) not strongly related to what happens later . People understand this , and often look with some interest on the very contrast between " freshman year " ( and maybe sophomore ) and what happens junior and senior year . While it might seem virtuous to " go back and repair " a bad performance early on , this is a vastly sub-optimal investment of one 's finite time and energy . Look forward , not back . Learn new things , do n't worry about perfecting things that really do n't need perfecting . And , indeed , grad admissions people exactly try to appraise candidates ' sense of " forward " rather than " back " ...
I have limited knowledge about this and I speak from experience as a graduate student who has gone through a similar situation ( from the outside ) as well as being the student representative on our graduate admissions committee ( on the inside ) . Obviously , a professor or academic with much more experience than I have can attest to this in better ways . In general , formal education is given preference . Grades in relevant courses are given more importance than others . Note that there is a lot of competition for slots in a PhD program . Self study is a very fuzzy area and there is little scope for the graduate admissions committee to evaluate it . There exists of course , two mutually non-exclusive ways exceptions to this general norm : A respected recommender in the area attests to the fact that you did engage in significant amounts of self study and that has contributed to your overall knowledge . You do self study . Then you do research based on it . Then you publish in a non trivial journal or conference . That automatically attests to your knowledge in certain ways . Otherwise , ask yourself this , why would graduate admissions committees believe you , especially when there is usually bound to be a few more well qualified applicants with good scores in relevant courses ?
My question is : will this have any positive benefits while I 'm applying to graduate school ? I think you are asking whether it will make your application more competitive . Answer : not much . At many/most universities , anyone can audit any course at any time , and it does n't certify anything more than that they showed up for class -- in some cases not even that . I had an auditor in a course this semester who showed up for the first half of the lectures and not for the second half . My response : ok . It shows up in my records -- so presumably also hers -- that she audited the course . I am not asked to assign a grade of any kind . Or would the admissions committee assume that I did n't learn as much as someone who actually took the course , and take it with a grain of salt that I know the material ? They would probably not assume anything at all . They would certainly not regard this as being evidence that you learned the material : getting a poor grade in a course certainly does not demonstrate learning of the material , and auditing shows less than that . Of course you can learn things by auditing a course . But you can also learn by outside reading and in other ways . However most students at this level learn more by actually taking a course , and of course if you do well in the course then that knowledge gets certified ( to an extent ) and can be used advantageously in your graduate application . Story check : you say that you have two years left of undergraduate study and ca n't find time to officially take one course that you think will be beneficial to your intended graduate study . This professor who read graduate applications for several years finds that hard to believe . In two years you should be able to work in the time to take one extra course , e.g. by ( i ) taking courses over the summer or ( ii ) getting excused from one course in a sequence , say by taking an exam which shows your competence . This is something to talk to your undergraduate advisor about .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
First , note that a course on OOP is probably not the same as a course just on C++ . The C++ language was designed by Stroustrup to support the developer in multiple styles of programming , including OO . C++ today has become such a huge and complex language , moreover one for which which professional programming style has significantly evolved since the 98 standard . For example , its support for and take-up of functional programming has grown significantly . I 'm assuming you want to do well on the course , as opposed to simply learning skills . Now , it 's a long while since I 've had a look at Deitel and Deitel , and I ca n't say I 've good memories of it . However , hopefully the book is recommended because does take an approach supporting the OOP of the course and the subset of C++ you are expected to learn on the course . So go ahead and get the book . Having said that , if you really want to learn C++ itself well enough to be able to use it as a professional , be prepared to buy a few more books and put in a lot more work after you 've done this introductory course .
I 've seen a lot of CVs include guest lecturer . You would include it in the Teaching section of your CV . A quick google for " guest lecturer cv " will show you some examples . Do note , this is generally different than an invited speaker though . A Guest Lecturer comes and teaches a class where as an Invited Speaker comes to give a talk or seminar or colloquium . If this is an invited talk then you 'd still list it on your CV , but in the Invited Talks section .
Applying for multiple programs is common and unlikely to reflect badly upon you . Applications committees for different programs are usually made up of different members and it is highly unlikely that they will even know that you applied to both programs . The only time it might be revealed is when it goes to the administrators who send out the letters , and frankly they could care less . Something to note , which affects both this issue and your overall considerations of a program , is that schools usually look for different things in a PhD program vs. an MA , and that affects how they conduct their admissions . At many school , MAs are not just less-capable versions of PhD students , they are completely different type of student . Terminal MA programs are usually unfunded , and include people who are less likely to conduct independent research . Some MA students will go on to a PhD program , but probably not at the institution where they get the MA . For this reason , MA programs at many schools are called ' cash cows ' and admissions to those programs are less of a priority for the full faculty , with a lot of the sorting done by administration , focused on funding potential , and stricter considerations about things like GREs , etc. . PhD programs are research training to become academics , or at least independent researchers , and most PhDs are fully funded . Since the university is investing in you , and the faculty will be stuck with you in person for 5-10 years , and reputationally forever , the faculty care a great deal about this . Considerations like the ability to pay , and even strict measures of capacity like test scores , take a secondary role to creativity in the field , goodness of fit , and so on . Simply put , in many schools you have to impress two different sets of people to get admitted , with overlapping but different priorities . There are idiosyncratic reasons why you may be admitted to one program and not the other , and sometimes it might even be that you get into a PhD and not an MA . ( On balance , however , admissions to an MA program is more likely than a PhD , simply due to the volume of admissions . )
No , and no . You should not try to hype up yourself with subjective comments in your CV or elsewhere in job applications , say . Other people do n't do this , and if you do you will seem strange and possibly desparate . Your CV should be a list of objective information . It is the job of your references to compare your work to other people 's and say how impressive it is . About the most you can do is keep the review in a personal " feel good " folder and look back at it when you need self-encouragement .
Work experience normally refers to internships or part-time jobs you 've done with companies besides your university , or actual employment positions in your university such as working in the library or grading papers . Research experience is related to academics , so it should be treated as such . I know you get paid for it , but it 's used to augment your undergraduate experience and thus adds value to your degree .
Will the non-degree option help my chances at being accepted to university A 's MS program ? No . Will the non-degree option hurt my chances at being accepted to university B 's PhD program ? No . Will they need to know about the non-degree if I 'm eventually accepted to the degree option ? Do well in the course and then you 'll be proud to share the transcript with them .
I believe you may get some tips from the answers to a question of mine on this very site : <URL> As for myself , I list the peer-reviews I have done in a " Administrative and collective duties " or " Community involvement " . Or , in a short CV which does n't have such divisions , I put it with the broader " Other skills and activities " section ( i.e. not teaching , not research projects ) . What I include is : list of journals for which I act as reviewer ( " Regular reviewer for many chemistry journals , including ... " ) funding bodies ( NSF , private trusts , etc. ) for which I act as expert ( including , e.g. , NSF division , but not the exact programs ) evaluation committees on which I sit It feels obvious , but it 's always worth repeating : do not include any confidential information , such as titles or author lists for reviewer papers or projects . I think it 's safe to list the number of reviews performed for each outlet if you want ( but I do n't do it ) .
The key factors here are that it 's a contributed presentation ( not invited ) and it 's in a huge meeting with many presentations of differing quality . It sounds like you may be talking about the APS March meeting , but similar things are true in many other cases , such as the AMS/MAA joint meetings in January . How valuable such a presentation would be on your CV depends on how far along you are in your career . If you are coming up for tenure , then you 'd better have far more impressive things to list on your CV , and presentations like this would be inconsequential . ( The only value on your CV would be in demonstrating continuing scholarly engagement if your job is almost entirely focused on teaching . ) If you are a college sophomore , then presenting at a meeting like this would be noteworthy . To a first approximation , if you 're an undergraduate then these presentations are worth highlighting on your CV ( unless you are lucky enough to have something more impressive to emphasize ) , while if you 're a grad student they are worth listing but probably wo n't be very important . However , it 's worth asking a mentor for personalized advice .
end question
start question
What specific techniques can help someone facing mental health problems ( depression , anxiety , ADHD ) have a productive academic career ?
First , please know that you are not alone and that it is possible to pursue a graduate education even with mental health issues . Several studies have actually indicated very high rates ( as much as 40-60 % ) of anxiety and depression among graduate students ( Arnold , 2014 ; Bernstein , 2015 ; Wyatt &amp; Oswalt , 2013 ) . So , there are students who have mental health issues who are still pursuing a higher degree . That said , just because it is common does n't mean it is accepted . Stigma is common in academia , as it is in the rest of society ( Pescosolido , 2013 ) , and students may fear being stigmatized if they discuss or reveal their condition . Also , mental health issues , like any physical illness , bring additional challenges that must be managed . Fortunately , there are several things you can do to identify the self-management approaches that may help you succeed . ( As personal context , I have a neurological condition and have experienced periods of depression . I am successfully engaged in a doctoral program ) . Take care of yourself You rightly noted that some of your cognitive difficulties may be due to your mental health symptoms . Depression , anxiety , and ADHD have all been shown to compromise executive function , such as attention , concentration , memory , and problem solving ( Biederman et al. , 2006 ; Castaneda , Tuulio-Henriksson , Marttunen , Suvisaari , &amp; Lnnqvist , 2008 ) . As you continue with treatment , you may find that some of these difficulties begin to resolve . Whether you pursue graduate school or work , prioritizing your own health and wellness is key ( Myers , 2012 ) . Some graduate programs are notorious for suggesting students engage in " self-care " but have such grueling schedules that this is difficult . Guard your well-being ruthlessly . If your physical and mental well-being suffer , so will your performance in other areas of life . Specific suggestions : Be open with your mental health providers about your academic and career intentions . Discuss treatment options in the context of being able to effectively function in a graduate school environment . If you find certain medications are causing side effects that impact your academic functioning , bring it up and address it . Determine whether there is a risk of developing a tolerance to your medications so that they would become ineffective . If that 's the case , work to identify two different medication regimens , so when you develop a tolerance to one in the middle of the school year , you can seamlessly switch to the other . I have found many professionals are sympathetic to students who express interest in higher education and was able to effectively partner with my providers . Identify a routine that contributes to your well-being and stick to it . For example , if you know that an irregular sleep schedule contributes to your anxiety , make your sleep schedule a priority . If you know your depression worsens when you do n't get enough light , and realize you 'll be working in a dark , interior office , ask your provider about light-box options . Consider tracking your schedule ( sleep/waking times , eating times and amounts , etc ) and symptoms on an ongoing basis , or in periods when your symptoms seem to worsen . This can help pinpoint instances where your routine has become disrupted . Operationalize your academic challenges , then identify possible solutions First write down a detailed , specific list of the ways in which you are struggling academically . I posted several follow-up comments to your initial question , because it was n't clear to me how your studies were being impacted by your symptoms . Determine if there are specific activities or tasks that seem to have become harder in recent months . Once you have list of specific examples , it will be easier to identify specific solutions . Some examples include : Problem : Low energy/motivation . Possible Solution : Create a concrete schedule , identifying when you will complete brief , manageable assignments . Unlike a to-do list that is open ended , this involves scheduling writing your methods section for your biology paper at 6pm on Tuesday . Rather than dread completing a task at some point , you 'll know exactly when you need to knock that out . Problem : Poor concentration makes it hard to focus on long assignments . Possible Solution : Break tasks into smaller components ( e.g. , breaking a paper into individual sections ) , and take breaks in between . Remove other distractions ( cell phone , email , TV ) from the area where you are working . If you ca n't resist temptation , go to the library and leave your phone at home . Problem : Poor attention makes it hard to take notes during lecture . Possible Solution : Audio-record lectures so you can listen to them later at your own speed . Join a study group where you can compare your notes and understanding with other students . Problem : Difficulties with memory impact school work . Possible Solution : Identify new ways to study , such as taking more extensive notes , re-writing your notes ( this is more ef
This answer is under context that the OP 's preprint was submitted primarily by him as a game piece in a competition with another group . . We uploaded the manuscript because we were scared of being scooped . We thought that by uploading the manuscript , it would make it impossible for another group to publish the same results . This answer uses the context that two or more groups were working on similar measurements in competition , simultaneously and independently ; likely there was awareness of each other as the competition for this result ; and that the only effect on group B ( if they even saw the preprint ) is ' lighting a fire ' under someone to finish the write up the results to try to either beat a submission date to publication ( just in case the OP 's preprint was prematurely posted to try to bluff the competition ) or to try to show how close both groups were in time and get an ' also ran ' credit . Notice that there was no mention of which group thought of these experiments first , or giving credit for the ideas . Yes , It is ethical for group B to submit a paper for work done independently even knowing that there is a ' preprint ' floating around from group A who appear completing their independent results simultaneously . Most of the fixup would occur after one or the other published articles appear . Giving everyone in this particular situation the benefit of doubt ; a solid assumption is that each group expects the other to submit any solid results for publication . ( and that both would prefer the published articles to be citation-of-record ) . It might be nice to cite a preprint in this case as a placeholder . But , the real issue occurs when the first paper gets ' in print ' and the still-waiting group can compare submission dates . Will group A or group B do their duty ? ( As it turns out from additional comments in the OP 's post , group B submitted their work before the OP 's preprint appeared . . The OP should add a citation to group B in his in-review paper . ) . To expect the preprint to be treated as the priority game changer between the two groups in this very artificial situation is not fair . It was posted as a game-piece in the race to establish priority between neck-and-neck groups doing the same experiment . Either group here could have abused a preprint posting ( e.g. , putting something out that is not ' ready ' or full of minor or major errors to establish claims like a patent troll ) and then fixing it up in a later version . If we are using traditions still mostly in play , when it is a ' race ' for priority , what will count to the community in establishing priority is when was the paper submitted to the journal . ( If someone tries to publish to early , and their work is not ready , there is chance it will get rejected , giving some checks and balances ) Finally - Journals will care about the submission date , not a preprint posting date . OP 's paper is still in review , with group B 's paper appearing first . It is usually is not a reason to reject group A 's paper . Group B 's paper had not appeared when the referees started reviewing . Traditionally , what would happen when the dust settles is that group A and/or group B 's paper would add citation or corrigendum . Pretty much for everyone else , if two papers with similar important results appear about the same time , they both will be cited more or less equally and/or together . The moral being , ( in this case ) that if one is worried about establishing priority in a race and trying all possible gambits , the ( ready to publish ) paper should be submitted for publication immediately after being posted on preprint server . Then it has what protections are currently possible under traditional model and any newly evolving models . * I likely will get negative comments saying that I imply to ' ignore at will citing or acknowledging unpublished ( but reliable ) preprints ' . ( No , I am not ) . But this case seems to be about independent , simultaneous competition where the preprint was used by group A to either 1 ) pretend they had already had version ready to be submitted for publication to psych out competitors from submitting their own , or 2 ) indicate to community that version was just submitted for publication and anyone who thereafter submitted would not have the priority when the dust settled . * In clarification - in later comments to the original posted questions , here is timeline deduced after my original answer was created . Group A ( the OP ) and group B at conference in their subfield . OP or member of group A shows their results in their presentation . From OP 's comments , it is pretty clear that any ' published ' conference abstracts available before or after conference do not present any details of results ( which usually means that presentations standard may be work-in-progress - no one in audience is going to complain or ask for a ' talk ' retraction later if results or understanding evolves between talk and a final publication . Group B submitted their work for publicatio
The definition of sabbatical in Wikipedia refers to labor terminology rather than academic sabbatical leave . As a privilege to employees , they can have temporary unpaid leave ( for any personal reason ) without losing their job . However , academic sabbatical historically is somehow different . When a scholar needs peace of mind to focus on a challenging issue , s/he will visit a new institute to experience a new atmosphere . While still being in the academic environment , not having heavy official duties . There are several motivations for a sabbatical leave ( at least as I have seen ) : A manager finishes an administrative position ( e.g. Dean ) , and wishes to rest in a different atmosphere , but not far from academia . A researcher working on a new idea , prefers to focus on his/her work somewhere with less commitments on everyday responsibilities ( e.g. teaching , advising , etc ) . A researcher is exploring new possibilities and opportunities , spend some time in a new department to live with new colleagues for a while . A researcher is collaborating with another group and spend a year in the host research group as a visiting scientist/professor while being on sabbatical leave from his/her institute . A professor in a mid-level university finds a temporary position in a top university . This is the base for many visiting professors in the US universities , e.g. international professors can experience working in the US universities . Even there are associate/assistant professors who find a post-doc position in the top universities , and use sabbatical leave , not to lose their job at home . In any case , sabbatical allowance mainly depends on the university employment rules .
It 's an old adage that " You do n't truly understand something unless you can explain it completely to someone else " . Writing notes effectively forces you to explain the topic to yourself . Oftentimes , when writing over notes from a class or from what you 've read , the simple process of re-explaining it to yourself will clarify points that may have been confusing earlier . For this purpose , I try not to write notes as I 'm reading , but rather I 'll read a section and them summarize that in my notes . Having read the full picture , I can then ensure that my understanding of the topic is more complete , and my notes should reflect that . On a different note entirely , repetition enhances retention , and writing notes is at the very least doubles the number of times you 'll see it ( once in the book , and once as you write it ) , which should help your remember it that much better .
There is no requirement to disclose and given the current climate around mental health , I would not suggest disclosing . I would say that you had health problems that resulted in your having to leave your former school , but that these issues are under control and you are confident you will succeed at your new program . I would be sure you tell your letter writers to also use the vague rubric of " health problems " as some may inadvertently disclose without thinking about how you want to be framed .
Of course , you 'll get there by engaging in a lot of activities where you will meet new people and work with people who will learn to know you . I recommend choosing them according to a few criteria : Activities of a seemingly technical ( or practical ) nature . As a PhD student , you probably do n't want to be on boring committees , board-style meetings , interdepartmental seminars . You will meet people , but not in a way that fosters collaboration . ( However , you may want to attend these events for other purposes . Meeting key people involved in hiring decisions at a given institution is one such purpose that comes to mind . ) Informal settings . This favors meeting new people and getting to know them much better . Favor small meetings over big ones . Aim for a few persons you want to meet . Identify people you would like to approach ( at a big event ) , then check what events they attend . Manage to invite people for talks at your institution . Okay , this one might be a bit difficult for a PhD student in some places , but if you can manage to get someone invited for a day or two , get him to give a talk and discuss your research and his , it will be worth it . Do not shy away from " learning " events : tutorials , " hands-on with XXX library " type of things . All in all , I think the kind of events you want to engage in are : Open source projects : you listed that one already Workshops close to your research topic : these typically involve few people and long discussions . Many of my strongest collaborations ( and a few friendships ) grew out of workshops . Tutorials organized on topics related , but not too close , to your research : you will learn stuff , meet people in a relaxed setting . Do n't be shy of going to workshops where you already know some of the stuff , if only to put it in practice and discuss with the best experts . Also , be ready to present your own work and identify convergences with lecturers and other participants .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all have thriving basic research labs that regularly hire PhDs in theoretical computer science , and whose members regularly publish in theoretical computer science conferences and journals . Yes , research at those labs is colored by the needs of their parent companies , but not as much as you might think . All four companies ( and several others ) have thriving internship programs . As with any other research job , your best bet in finding opportunities is to talk personally with people at the labs . Go to FOCS/STOC/SODA , sit at the same lunch table as David Johnson or Muthu or Ken Clarkson or Yuval Peres , and just talk to them . ( It obviously helps if you have some research results that they care about . ) Ask your advisor to introduce you if you do n't feel comfortable just introducing yourself . ( I 'm about to get some angry emails from David , Muthu , Ken , and Yuval , are n't I ? )
This is a rising <URL> topic in the area of <URL> and <URL> . Last year there was controversy with <URL> . There is no set policy , though they are being devolped . Most recently there is the <URL> The <URL> principles state : Awareness . Scientists have an obligation to do no harm . They should always take into consideration the reasonably foreseeable consequences of their own activities . They should therefore : always bear in mind the potential consequences -- possibly harmful -- of their research and recognize that individual good conscience does not justify ignoring the possible misuse of their scientific endeavour ; refuse to undertake research that has only harmful consequences for humankind . The US NIH <URL> is often consulted for such research concerns and has a report <URL> and has a series of <URL> . The <URL> does not address publication restrictions/censorship .
It is clear from your recent questions that you feel exploited in your lab , and it is good that you want to do something about it . However , first things first . What is your agreement with your current mentor / lab head / whoever ? Essentially , what is your " job " ? If you have been specifically hired to " help out with the programming " , or something like that , it will be difficult to convince whoever is paying your salary that you now actually would like to do something different . Not impossible , but maybe also not easy . On the other hand , if you have actually been hired to do research , but now end up being more of a scientific programmer because that 's what the lab currently needs , it is time for a good one-on-one meeting with your lab head . You wrote in a comment that you do not foresee this going well , but I really see no way how you can change your situation without talking about it very explicitly to your lab head . It should be easy to see for most sane persons that not only your lab has needs , but you and your career have needs as well ( and working as a scientific programmer can easily be a dead end for an academic career - no first-authored publications , no faculty job ) . Try to make a plan for a suitable compromise between you helping out the lab with your programming skills , will still being able to progress your own career . Should your lab head really not be willing to compromise at all , it may be time to move on . Possible compromises could include : Hiring an actual scientific programmer , perhaps with funding that you help acquiring You training some of the junior staff to do their own programming You helping others in their programming problems , but ultimately let them do the majority of it themselves You supervising some undergrad or master students that can help out with programming tasks etc. . that they appreciate more ( because they are their own PhD students and now postdocs , it 's emotionally logical , I 'd say ) That 's not logical , that 's BS . A lab where people " coming from the outside " are valued less than those that " have always been there " is a terrible , toxic environment .
You should look for faculty working in the field that you are interested in researching , and then pitch your research idea directly to them . Make sure that you do a good job with a preliminary review of the literature for your idea and understand the professor 's specific research interests , so that your letter does not sound like any of the hundreds of mail-merge messages that professors get every week . If your idea is really worthwhile and you do a good targeted job of pitching it , changes are that someone will agree to work with you on it . However , the reality is that most students come into a PhD without a really good sense of existing literature or the feasibility of their ideas . It is for this reason that there is great value in being open-minded about your PhD thesis . Many students make the mistake of thinking that the PhD should be the pinnacle of their career , solving some grand problem in human existence . This might happen for a few figures in history , but , more typically , the PhD is the start of a research career and not the end of it .
It 's always good practice to cite as closely as possible , especially in a book . LaTeX makes it easy to do this with the form . For a paper , it 's often not necessary since one typically cites the main result of a paper . But even with a paper , if what you 're citing is a lemma buried inside ( and that is not obvious from the abstract ) it 's good to say or something like that . As to why people do n't do it , AnonymousMathematician already answered that above .
In the German academic system , assistant professor positions were introduced only in 2002 . Recently , there have been studies evaluating how well these positions have been established , and how it affects the career paths of junior researchers . One example is a project by the Center for Higher Education ( CHE ) , which is described here ( in German unfortunately ) : <URL> . Scrolling down to publications shows references to articles where data from this study have been published ( again only in German ) . One difficulty in interpreting this data with respect to your question is that tenure track positions are rare in Germany ( an estimate I remember , but do n't have a reference for now , is that 10 % of assistant professor positions are tenure track ) . On the one hand , that means that " being denied tenure " is almost the norm for these positions . On the other hand , it 's also possible that professors become tenured even though they have n't been on a formally tenure track position . Also , the statistical population for this study are persons who have been assistant professors in the past , not only those who have been denied tenure . Thus , the study does not give directly the percentages for all the positions in your question , and some data ( e.g. field of study ) was not collected or published , but still , the results can be used to estimate some of these percentages . So let 's get to the key conclusions that can be drawn : For 1. , 85 % of former assistant professors have a tenured professor position now ( either through tenure track or at another institution ) For 2. , 6 % of all former assistant professors have a non-tenured academic position Summarizing 3 . - 5. , 9 % have a position outside academia .
What you should do right now depends on the nature of the improvements that you have made : If your new algorithm achieves its improvement due to some shift in how you represent or think about the problem , then it 's probably worth publishing . You do n't need to be in any special position to publish : anybody can write a paper . Look at where the competing algorithms that you outperform are published , and how they are presented and evaluated in those papers , and you 've got a good template to start from . If your new algorithm is mainly an improvement because of a whole bunch of little tweaks and optimizations , or because of how you 've coded it , then it 's probably not worth publishing , but definitely worth sharing as a software engineering artifact . It may not be scientific karma , but it 's definitely computer programmer karma . Getting a Ph.D. is a whole different matter , which involves a lot more than just doing a piece of research ( though that 's certainly part of it ) . If you want to pursue a Ph.D. , it will be a multi-year process with a lot more scientific contributions involved . This work that you have done , however , could definitely be helpful evidence of research ability and help you get admitted to a program .
First , regarding your comment that " if [ the paper ] was so bad it would not have been published " : in my experience , pretty much anything is publishable , it all depends on the journal . Do n't overestimate the field : there are journals out there that publish absolute crap . And that is not only my opinion , e.g. in many cases , <URL> publish articles that no legitimate peer-review journal would accept Now , the initial question is : how bad can it be ? Well , it can be bad . As a researcher ( or wannabe researcher ) , your publications list is like an artist 's portfolio . When you look for a job , apply for a grant or try to recruit new team members , this is what they will judge you on . Now , for a young student ( say undergrad or MSc level ) , one weird paper would not completely freak me out . It would mostly speak to me about the quality of the tutor/advisor/program director : a newbie can sure get a wrong idea at some point , but how come none was there to tell him it was a wrong idea ? On the other hand , if he was told and did not listen , it might speak to his character !
Obviously you should check for yourself with whoever you attempt to publish the manuscript with , but I 've never seen a journal state that the title of a publication must be unique , and I have publications which have appeared in some form as posters with the same title . It actually makes some sense to keep the titles the same . Any buzz that you might have generated with the poster may increase readership of the article . If you have separate titles then potential readers would n't have the association .
First , I 'll remark that ( at least in fields close to me : physics and chemistry ) , the process for submitting review articles is typically handled in a different way than other articles ( which I 'll call " research articles " ) . Review articles take a lot of effort to write , and that their publication may depend not only on intrinsic quality and scientific criteria , but also on editorial policy : if the journal has already hosted a review on a given topic , it is unlikely to publish another soon afterwards . So , the common practice is to come to an agreement with the editor before writing the full article . Either the editor contacts a scientist to offer him to write a review on a given topic , either an author sends an abstract to the editor asking if the journal would welcome such a review ( with no guarantee as to the results of the peer-review process , of course ) . This has an important consequence for your question : you can actually ask the editor of the journal of your dreams if a review by you and your co-authors would be welcome . Practices may differ between fields , journals and editors , but asking exactly the person who is going to make the decision is the right course . Then , we come to what I would call the " customs " . It is indeed typical to gain some authority in your field before writing review articles . This usually means working for a few years in a given field , publishing some articles of your own , in short : getting noticed by your community . As such , it is not a typical thing to do for a graduate student . Maybe at the end of your PhD , jointly with your adviser . Most probably , later in your career : either as an experienced post-doc , or after having gained a faculty position . With more than a few years of experience , my personal experience is that you perfectly write reviews ( and the editors will accept if the work is good ) . However , it gets easier with seniority , as you will ( i ) more easily have your work accepted in more prestigious journals , and especially ( ii ) more easily get invitations to write reviews .
Generally speaking , the name of the person registering does not have to be the same as the name on the credit card . You can pay for your co-author 's registration if you want . the IEEE discount applies if the person registering is an IEEE member , regardless of who is paying . If your co-author is registering to attend the conference , it 's fine for him to use your credit card ( if that 's what you want ) and he can still get the IEEE discount , since he 's an IEEE member . If you 're the one registering to attend the conference , you ca n't get the discount if you 're not an IEEE member .
When you get an academic degree from a German university , you usually get two official certificates . One ( labeled Urkunde ) is official proof that you hold the degree but does not include a grade . The other ( labeled Zeugnis ) is official proof of your grade but ( according to some bureaucrats , though I suspect they just like to make life difficult ) not of the degree . I think for doctoral degrees it is common that these two documents are combined into one , which is then also labeled Urkunde , or in this case Promotionsurkunde , but includes the grade . The grade for doctoral degrees is still often in Latin , in which case the best grade is typically summa cum laude , followed by magna cum laude . A normal practice to make sure applicants actually hold the degrees they claim to hold is to ask for photocopies of their degree certificates along with the application . This timing makes it less awkward to ask for proof . Also , faking a certificate , even if it 's only a fake photocopy , is a more serious offence than just lying about a degree , and at that point the reward of this more serious fraud is n't even certain yet . It is also possible to ask for a certified photocopy . I am not sure why this is done ; maybe it repels a few more liars . German universities are in fact not allowed to hand out any data about their faculty and ( former ) students . I would consider the spreadsheet linked above a weak form of corroboration . Weak because it looks more like someone 's personal effort than an official list . ( Even two dissertation titles are missing . ) Of course , technically even a valid doctoral certificate is not proof that the holder of the certificate really holds the degree . There might have been a subsequent revocation . One factor that may lead to even competent people committing fraud is the requirement of thesis publication . Once all other requirements have been satisfied , people usually get a warning that they are not allowed to use their degree before publication of the dissertation . As far as I know this is done quite consistently because even with the warning it does happen occasionally . Of course this is less of an issue nowadays , as the publication is often done electronically . ( I earlier wrote that standard practice was to hand out the certificate before publication . Some people protested , and I must agree that what I wrote was obviously wrong . It does n't make sense for universities to hand out proof of something that is not true yet , and they do n't do it . Sorry . )
First , you need to decide the purpose of your blog / your targeted audience . If you are writing something so your class can be more interactive , you would clearly write it one way ( being very careful not to embarrass anyone ) - simply removing names might not actually hide identities in a class of 20 students . In this scenario , I do n't see a reason to hide your own identity . If you are writing something for other teachers , to discuss pedagogical issues , then you would write in a very different way . In this case , anonymizing your student names is very important ( for different reasons ) and you might want to hide your own identity as a way to stop your students or anyone else connecting your writings to a particular group of students .
It depends what you are asking them to do . You should definitely ask someone ( maybe multiple someone 's ) to read your paper , give you comments about what was confusing/particularly clear/incomplete as well as suggestions on how to improve the paper . ( In fact I would recommend this to anyone writing a paper at any stage , not just an undergraduate . ) This might be done by your advisor if you have one , and you should thank them in the Acknowledgements section for their help ( and personally too , expressing gratitude is always good ! ) You should not ask someone a non-co-author to actually edit your paper and make changes to it themselves . Any actual editing should be done by you or your co-authors , otherwise plagiarism becomes a concern .
end question
start question
Is it considered unusual in the United States for a professor to run a class outside on the grass ?
There are always exceptions to the rule , but there is still a rule . Asking a like question in the U.S. creates uncomfortable reactions , and usually denial that classifying people or countries or ... is not possible ! , as you notice in reply to your question ; and this is similar at Academia SE . That all said , I 've studied in Germany , France , and the U.S. , and spent about half my life in both Germany and the U.S. By and large , all your original questions should be answered " Yes , yes , yes , and yes . " The main reason lies probably in rules that apply in most colleges - you are held to live in university housing , while sharing a room with a stranger for a year or two , in many cases hundreds or thousands of miles away from your hometown . Even when attending universities that , for space reasons , ca n't have housing on campus ( e.g. , Columbia in Manhattan ) , you will usually choose ( if only for rent price reasons ) a university provided off-campus dormitory type facility . This would have been terrifying for young , shy me , but has some very good consequences in that , by and large , Americans learn to deal with imperfect living accommodations , and to get along with people you have little in common with ( my first room-mate was just back from a Mormon mission ) . Even when I lived in a dormitory at my undergrad alma mater , I had no room-mate , and close to no contact to the other dormitory residents . There is also a tendency to use college years as the years you go craaaaaaaazy , which is accommodated by the many campus universities which often look like a large park ( google Berkeley , or CalTech , say ) . I 've seen a guy run around campus naked , covered in peanut butter head to toes , as part of his campaign to become the football mascot ; that mascot ( costume ) was ' kidnapped ' by the rival university ( which led to some pompous administrative reactions ) ; one day each year Freshmen caught in a particular spot were supposed to be kissed ; and the school band occasionally mooned the opposing team , and performed other ' look how crazy we are ' acts . Things have . I think , gotten more Puritan in recent years - I am fairly sure the weird annual kissing tradition stopped . But it existed as recently as about 10 years ago . As you 'll know from your campus , that is a far cry from typical European experiences . My undergrad campus , as an 18th century castle built to resemble Versailles , had ample lawns , and a good amount of parties ; but the events mobilizing students were the frequent political demonstrations which pulled tens of thousands of students to the castle and the surrounding streets . Finally , giving a good , entertaining lecture is valued much higher in the States . This is a good thing : all the professors that truly impressed me I met in the U.S. . As part of this , lecturing outside happens , but is not common . The world is getting smaller every year though : Europeans teach in the U.S. , then go back to Europe - and vice versa ; and the Information Age removed barriers that used to be high . So obviously , the stiff Dr. Unrath no longer teaches in Germany either , and I 've had classes outdoors there too .
What a nice idea ! This professor mentored you in the early days of your studies , so he will be pleased and interested to hear that you are continuing to progress in his favorite topic . Also , consider that your article having been selected to be published is good news for those who work in that area at your institution . So he will be pleased in that regard as well . It 's important to learn to be courageous in this way . You will benefit greatly over the years from ' networking . ' Sharing your good news , by giving him a copy of your publication , is an example of networking . A nice touch would be to write a personal inscription on the copy you plan to give him , thanking him for the mentoring he gave you back in 20xx , and for sparking your first interest in the area . Something like that . The best gift of all is a sincere thank-you .
Many universities in the US have policies that prevent students with a 3 year bachelor 's degree from applying for graduate admission . To get into one of those programs you would have to complete at least one more year of study before being admitted to the graduate program .
It 's rapidly becoming the norm at least at larger research universities ( R1s ) for all junior faculty to have assigned mentors from the senior faculty . At smaller institutions , they may not be assigned and so junior people have to find a mentor themselves from within the college , go externally , use their thesis adviser as a continuing mentor , or choose not to get mentored altogether . I 'm currently serving as a senior faculty mentor to a junior colleague ( I was assigned this person by my Chair ) and am an informal mentor to two others . As I see it , my roles are to : Show an active interest in my colleague 's work . Read their published and unpublished work . Go to their internal talks and try to go to their annual conference talks . Provide feedback . Serve as a soundingboard for my colleague -- which journal should they publish in , should they change the structure of their article , what should their publishing schedule be . Suggest , but do n't direct . Serve as an advocate for my colleague at senior faculty meetings and to the university at promotion and tenure time Take the colleague out for lunch from time to time . In general , try to be a decent human being to them . Especially at the larger R1s , decent human beings are rare so this takes quite an effort . :-) Note that I 've seen a lot of bad mentoring by senior faculty . I 'm not sure if they do this because of spite or because they are Evil People  . In my mind , bad mentoring is worse than no mentoring , so I 'm not sure if mandatory mentoring programs such as at my institution are a good idea .
As a faculty member , I try to respond to all prospective students but many times the questions are too vague , tautological , or impossible to answer : Will I get in ? Impossible to answer . Will you work with me if I get in ? Tautological . If you are in my field of study and you get in , it 's likely because I want to work with you . But I do n't want to say yes because that may be misread as saying that we will accept you . What are the strengths and weaknesses of your program ? Not easily answerable , self-serving if I deem my own area strong and likely to insult faculty in the areas I deemed week . Tell me more about your research . Too open ended . My CV is online . I do n't mean to sound harsh but questions that can be easily answered are the most likely to get responses . Faculty do welcome e-mails from prospective students , especially those in our fields . When you get 150 + applications , it might be easy to miss someone in your specific area , so a personal message saying that you are applying is always welcome ( especially early in the semester -- Sept or Oct -- before things get crazy ) . Questions that are n't answerable on our website are also welcome ( for example , not all department websites list which students are associated with which faculty ; asking about our team members in those cases is welcome ) . If you pique our interest ( and we have the time ) , we may ask for further info from you -- for example , a paper you wrote or other writing sample . While I try to send a simple " thanks " ack message to these responses , I may be asking for something in November that I wo n't look at seriously until February with the other application material . So do n't take the lack or brevity of acknowledgement to mean anything significant . Note that we may not want to send an e-mail prematurely closing down discussion as we may feel that this is rude to an applicant who may have more questions . So we are in essentially a typical asynchronous communication hang condition . That being said , I do often wish that I could respond in http status codes :
I came across the following study : T McElroy , L Mosteller The influence of circadian type , time of day and class difficulty on students ' grades . <URL> In the conclusions of the work , they mention that the students have a best performance if their optimal time-of-day ( i.e. , if they are monrningness type or eveniningness type ) coincide with the class schedule . By contrast the classes that require less cognitive functioning are less sensitive to the advantage and disadvantage of optimal and non-optimal time-of-day .
As Aleksandar says , you do need to learn the terminology in order to search effectively for articles . And in fact , you 'll need to know the terminology in order to understand those articles . When I 'm exploring a new subject area , I do n't start with the journal articles ; I start with books , web tutorials , etc. , to get the basics . For learning the terminology , I also suggest reading the relevant articles in Wikipedia or Scholarpedia . They will also have links to journal articles ; get hold of those articles and see what keywords they use . Anytime you find a useful article , note the keywords , and what journal it 's in . This will help you find other useful articles , and places where you might submit your own articles in future . Also , your college librarian may be able to help you figure out some of the keywords to use . They usually know a little about a wide variety of topics , at least enough to have some ideas of what search terms might be useful . If you set up an appointment , they may be able to spend some time with you , helping you find some sample articles and working with you to figure out a good search strategy .
This depends a great deal on the professor and course in question . Better to ask first if you plan to do this . Also , check the syllabus if there is a stated policy regarding help on homework .
First , ask yourself whether you are sending the right email . One of my professor mentors had a very useful heuristic for ensuring effective communication with busy people . For any busy person , email typically gets triaged into three bins : Email that can be safely ignored . Email that can be responded to with trivial effort , thereby clearing it from their " todo list . " Email that requires non-trivial effort to respond , and must be put off for later ... and later may be a long time , because now it 's competing with their other " large " duties . If you want a response from a busy person , write a short email that includes precisely one question , and make sure that question is easy to respond to . For example , in your case , if you send email saying : Here is my research proposal , as discussed . Can you please send me feedback ? then that might get no response until the professor has the feedback ready , and preparing your feedback may get pushed off and pushed off again . The professor might also misremember the deadline and have a lesser sense of urgency . If instead you write : Here is my research proposal , as discussed . Please recall that I must submit before the deadline of XXX , and I would like time to revise if necessary . When can I expect your feedback ? In this you 've posed an easy question , which should get a response , and also gotten them to commit to a specific date . If you do n't get a response in a day or two from an " easy " email like this , then you need to wonder whether this person is actually somebody you want to work with . What , however , if you send the right email , get them to commit to a date , and then they fail to either respond or tell you they need more time ? At that point , I would recommend against either emailing or calling on the phone . Instead , go find the professor in person . I have found that with busy people who fail on their commitments , that finding them in person is the best way to get yourself back in their queue . Again , however , you should ask yourself whether you really want your whole Ph.D. to be this way , because it is likely to be a pattern ...
Yes ! In fact , it would be inappropriate not to ask at least one professor at your current university for a reference letter , as direct evidence of your success .
Plagiarism involves dishonesty : taking someone else 's work and leading others to believe it is your own . In the case of unpublished teaching materials , I do n't think it 's assumed that all the examples , etc. , a professor uses are original unless an outside source is cited . So I would n't strictly consider this plagiarism ( though citing outside sources is definitely preferable to not citing them ) . It 's possible that in your academic culture it is assumed that all of a professor 's materials are original , in which case , the above would not apply .
TL ; DR : yes there are metrics that evaluate standards of teaching , but there are many and they vary widely . For the UK , the <URL> collects performance indicators that include teaching outcomes . Because of these differences , the impact of these metrics vary , too . There are two crucial problems . The first is : how you define impact ? A good teacher can impact a student by inspiring to do great things - inside or outside of academia . If students leave university , how do you know what they do is a function of the teaching they have received ? And even if it was that straight-forward , how do translate macro-level successes onto individual teachers ? The second is : how do you compare such measures across institutions , disciplines , countries ? Most measures that try to evaluate the quality of teaching tend to be on the macro level . For instance , university league tables approximate quality of teaching using student-staff-ratio , teaching satisfaction and course satisfaction . See for example the <URL> or the <URL> . The THE explains <URL> : the Teaching metric is measured by five performance indicators : a reputation survey , the ratio of staff to students , the ratio of doctorate students to undergraduate students , the number of doctorates awarded per academic staff , and institutional income All of these are approximations and make some assumptions about what is affected by teaching . For example , the number of PhDs awarded per staff : is this a function of teaching ? In the US , where PhDs usually encompass 1-2 years of classes , this makes some sense . In the UK , where PhDs are much shorter , this is already a problematic measure . Internal feedback mechanisms Many UK universities use internal systems : at the end of each course , every student receives a feedback form with questions about how well they though the course was run . This differentiates lectures from seminars/classes/labs , differentiates Teaching Assistants ( TAs ) from lecturers ( if applicable ) and includes questions on how quick the feedback on homework was , how well-prepared classes were , whether or not the TA made the subject interesting , whether they felt engaged and so on . In my institution , every lecturer/TA gets sent their evaluations after each term , in addition to the departmental average . This way you can gauge how well you are doing according to your own students , and how well you do in relation to your teaching peers . As with any questionnaire or survey , methods are imperfect ( students that do n't turn up do n't get to take the questionnaire etc ) but it serves as an approximation . How well you do does impact your chances of promotion ( this is anecdotal , however - this will likely differ from place to place ) . External measures of teaching The UK government plans to implement the Teaching Excellence Framework ( TEF ) , akin to the Research Excellence Framework ( REF ) . See here the House of Commons report <URL> Inside the report , page 5 reads : There is no commonly agreed definition of what constitutes good teaching in higher education . In a diverse higher education environment , we heard that excellent teaching may look very different across different subjects and across different autonomous institutions Instead , the government wants to introduce metrics that can approximate the quality of teaching . The more recent <URL> reads : We define teaching broadly - including the teaching itself , the learning environments in which it takes place , and the outcomes it delivers . Such things can be measured : students assess their satisfaction with their courses , retention rates are a good proxy for student engagement , contact hours can be measured , employers choose to sponsor some courses , or work with some institutions , because of the industry-relevance of their offerings , and employment rates can be measured The TEF is not implemented yet and reactions have included many concerns about the usefulness of the proxies and the bureaucratic burden that collecting these measures will imply . The consequences of TEF include for example that universities can raise tuition fees if they do well . Practical issues collecting teaching data : the example of retention Since retention and drop-out rates ( especially among minorities and working-class backgrounds ) are very important in measuring teaching quality , the easiest way to collect that data is by recording student attendance . Both manual and electronic measures have their pitfalls : manually calling out 150 students in a lecture is time-consuming , electronic systems prone to failure or abuse . Assuming that this is not a problem , the next question is : what to do with students that have missed classes ? Recently , my institution has been obstructed to see to it that every student that misses two classes in a row , will have a personal meeting with their tutor . This has created huge pressures on tutors who have to see up to 60 students per week . A common problem of this system for example is that stu
I doubt anyone would consider a table format as plagiarized when used to show new data . It would be akin to saying use of Tukey 's box-and-whisker type plots would be plagiarism . The question is understandable , however , since someone could arguably claim some such structure as intellectual property . I think the key here lies in what is being copied . You are copying the structure but not the content . To protect the form would be quite pointless since no-one would buy the rights and it would be simple to make sufficient variations to argue it is not the same form . I am sure this could be discussed at length by lawyers . Although , not within the scope of your question , most author 's will be happy to see something they produce becoming reused and maybe even a standard . I had a figure in a paper that was picked up by IPCC and used to show something different than my original but still unequivocally based on my design . So in the end , as suggested in comments to your question . you can pay homage to the original by acknowledging the idea of the table in your acknowledgement or by citing the paper and stating the table is based on their table . Which makes most sense , will depend on circumstances in your paper .
Getting a paper accepted for publication in a normal journal is a matter of credibility : you must be able to convince the peer reviewers that the content of your paper is both true and novel . Very high status journals such as Nature or Science work somewhat differently : there you can not reach the peer reviewers until you first convince the editor that your work is " important " and " broadly interesting " enough to consider , which is a somewhat arbitrary process . Let us consider only normal journals , however , where the bulk of all publication takes place : they still have an editorial filter , but it is generally only to ensure a submission is at least vaguely on-topic , not plagiarized , and basically sane . These are pretty low bars to pass , though they are definitely affected by being known . If I see a paper that has come out with a well-known PI as author and that looks like a logical extension on their prior work , I 'm unlikely to scrutinize carefully for being on-topic or sanity : it would be such a blow to the reputation of the PI to misbehave there that I am comfortable to take the small risk that the reviewers might get annoyed because the paper turns out to actually be crazy or off-topic . Not being known wo n't generally hurt an author here , it will just mean their paper is more likely to actually get checked for topic and sanity , rather than simply trusted . The peer reviewers are another matter . Peer review is a very noisy process , and even when double-blinding is used , it is often possible to have a good idea when a well-known person is involved based on the methods that they are using . Most peer reviewers are conscientious and try to do a good and neutral job , but a ( frustrating ) minority are <URL> . Even for those who are trying to do a good job are human and thus are subject to same standard cognitive flaws we all are , like <URL> . All of this means that an unknown 's credibility will likely be assessed differently than a person who is well-known as a good and careful researcher . The unknown person will generally either have to present stronger evidence to be believed or will have the evidence that they do present scrutinized more carefully . That unknown will actually be better off , though , than a well-known person who has a history of sloppy or controversial work , who will typically have an even harder time convincing peer reviewers . Do not draw the wrong lesson from this , however : a person most certainly can publish well as an unknown , early in their career , without relying on the name recognition of co-authors . Many of us do exactly that . It 's just going to be somewhat harder than after one has already established a reputation as a careful and productive researcher . Final note : if you ever find yourself saying " They only rejected my paper because I 'm not [ well-known / popular / one of the cool kids / etc ] " then you are probably wrong and engaging in sour grapes kvetching . If they rejected your paper , then you should also have been provided with clear information about what types of evidence would improve your ability to get accepted . Do that instead .
Generally foundations " request " that you inform them if you receive extra funding for the same budget . They probably expect that you apply to several foundations simultaneously . However , if you negotiate with foundation I to change the scope of the funding ( such that it does n't go towards your salary , which is presumably already covered by foundation II ) , then I think you 're in the clear . Alternatively , if foundation II did n't fund your full budget , then you could accept part of the funds from foundation I to cover the remaining costs , then inform both foundations of the arrangement . That should also be uncontroversial .
Some universities and faculty are more interested in getting undergraduates involved in research than others . I 've had quite a few undergraduate students do research with me with great success ( publications even ) . I 've never taught at a university with a PhD in CS though - my institutions encouraged undergraduate research and often even provided funding for it . I would recommend against approaching PhD students to work on their research unless directed to do so by their advisor - they are focusing their time and energy on finishing their degrees as well as any research/teaching duties assigned by the university . You can ask graduate students for advice on which professors are interested in working with undergraduates - they usually know the faculty pretty well . As far as professors , there are a few different approaches . Your department should have research seminars - probably more than one - have you been attending ? They are usually open to anyone who is interested and it 's a good way to hear about interesting research . If the faculty member you are interested in working with has a research group with a seminar series then sitting in on that is also a good way to show that you 're serious about doing research with them ( but ask if that 's ok ! ) . Figure out a specific faculty member or research group you 're interested in - you 're more likely to get a positive response if you can demonstrate knowledge of what they are doing and genuine interest ( in the research - not just in getting a recommendation letter ! ) . Does your department have programs for undergraduate research ? Many have summer scholar programs that partner students with faculty or with research labs . Faculty who have grant money can often get extra funding to pay an undergraduate to work with them . The other thing you can do is to look into Research Experience for Undergraduate programs - summer programs where you 'd go to another university to do research . They are competitive to get into though so it 's another situation where you 'll need a letter of reference . This can be from someone whose class you 've taken ( I 've written them for my students ) .
From my experience in the US , it is typical for a postdoc to be on a fixed " short term " contract where there are certainly no " promotion " raises , but might or might not provide cost-of-living increases . A one-year contract will almost certainly contain no salary increase ; for a 2 - or 3-year contract , they will be minimal at best .
UK PhD programs pretty much universally require a MSc or equivalent so I would expect a MS to be required . For some lower ranking universities you may be able to make a case based on the differences between US and UK bachelors , but I think even this is doubtful . Thinking about it this is not entirely true . There are some <URL> which offer combined masters and PhD courses for which you do n't require a Masters , but outside these a masters is required . Academically , I expect top UK institutions have similar requirements to top US institutions . Specially , they will require a 2:1 or equivalent , with some top universities requiring a 1st . There is no simple conversion to GPA or other systems . But , roughly speaking at 2:1 / 1st corresponds to 3.2 / 4.0 in GPA . However , academics are mainly just a minimum requirement . The main determining factors are the enthusiasm you can show for research , particularly related to the area you are applying for . Most UK applicants will have at least some research experience from experience from their course and the majority will have also done a summer research job or similar . I would still expect applications for to places to be quite competitive . Less in terms of raw numbers compared to undergraduate , but more the quality of applicants . Some interesting numbers for Cambridge can be found <URL> . About 1/3 of applicants get an offer and about 1/4 applicants start the PhD ( the difference presumably fail to make their grades or take another offer ) . This is much higher than undergrad , where a low estimate would be 1/10 get an offer .
In the U.S. , " professor emeritus " simply means " retired professor " . It 's a courtesy title offered to retiring professors to acknowledge their continued scholarly role even after formal retirement . It typically includes library privileges and a computer account , and emeritus professors may also have offices ( this depends on departmental policy and the availability of space ) . It 's sometimes possible to teach , but this is a special arrangement rather than a job requirement . At many universities every retired faculty member is offered this title , with rare exceptions for people who committed misconduct or angered the administration . At other universities one has to apply for the title and make a case for why it is justified . In particular , professor emeritus is not a higher title or special distinction . It can be viewed as a retirement incentive : even after retirement , you 'll still have a respected role as well as necessities like library access . However , there 's no advantage to becoming an emeritus professor beyond the benefits of retiring from your job ( i.e. , giving up duties and focusing only on what you prefer ) .
At many ( most ? all ? ) universities , a committee is required to have at least one professor from outside the department ( other than the chair , if the chair holds a joint position ) . Other requirements are to have at least one professor at rank higher or equal to the rank of the chair ( the advisor ) .
end question
start question
Should I include PhD experience in MSc application ?
You joined a PhD program without a master 's degree ? Well ... a master of science is about doing an small version of a PhD . In that sense , it could be beneficial to show that you do have some experience in research . On the other hand , the fact that you left , probably without results or something to prove how well did you do it so far , might not be so positive . But anyway , honesty should be the most important thing , and you should n't hide what you have done before . Also , it is definitely more beneficial to fill those gaps on your CV with the PhD time , instead of letting them think that you were just lounging around ...
Many ( if not most ) academic CVs have a section labeled " Service " that lists committee memberships , reviewing experience , outreach activities , and other university and community service . You could also reasonably include a brief " service statement " , as an addendum to your teaching ( or research ) statement , that explains those service activities ( and future goals ) in more detail . But keep in mind that you 're not describing who you are as a human being , but rather who you are as a potential colleague . The service activities you describe should have direct bearing on your suitability for a teaching job in a university mathematics department . So coaching your daughter 's robotics team could reasonably be included , but coaching her baseball team probably should n't . Also remember that your service activities are almost certainly less important than your record in teaching and research . " Service " should be the last section of your CV , and any service statement should be significantly shorter than your teaching or research statements .
Excellent question ! I put it down as experience anyway , but it seems to be shrugged off more often than not , as it was considered necessary as part of a degree . When I was applying for jobs , I got a call from one where the guy went over my resume over the phone , saying things like " And you do n't have ANY industry experience ? You did n't even do an intership ? What were you doing over your summers ? " to which I could only give the flabbergasted reply " Doing ... research ... " So , yea , I 'd definitely put it down as experience . But do n't think that people will necessarily take it too seriously , sad to say .
Work experience normally refers to internships or part-time jobs you 've done with companies besides your university , or actual employment positions in your university such as working in the library or grading papers . Research experience is related to academics , so it should be treated as such . I know you get paid for it , but it 's used to augment your undergraduate experience and thus adds value to your degree .
I 've seen a lot of CVs include guest lecturer . You would include it in the Teaching section of your CV . A quick google for " guest lecturer cv " will show you some examples . Do note , this is generally different than an invited speaker though . A Guest Lecturer comes and teaches a class where as an Invited Speaker comes to give a talk or seminar or colloquium . If this is an invited talk then you 'd still list it on your CV , but in the Invited Talks section .
Almost anything will be fine , provided you feel comfortable on them . The clothes you are wearing will influence the first impression , but you are going to be talking about your project for at least 20 min , and the confidence and clarity will wipe whatever the first idea was . Make sure they are you feel good on them , and do n't use them for the first time this day in case they itch or something ( specially important for underwear ! ) . The right level of formalism is very dependent on the culture and setting , but it is probably not so important . It will also depend on whether the event is public or not : if the audience are going to be the people that have been seeing you in normal clothes all year round , or if the public is going to attend and the University wants to shine . Of course , a frock and a top hat or just a swimming suit will look ridiculous , but anywhere in the middle would work . For reference , I have been present to two PhD defences in Sweden ( where they are quite lax in formalities ) . In one , the doctorand was wearing plain business-like clothes , slightly more formal than a normal day ; in the other , he was wearing a normal shirt , quite less formal than his normal attire . And , for the record , both passed . Edit : Jigg is right in pointing that some universities do require a certain dress code . In this case , it will probably be clearly stated by the centre . Being rejected is possible , but extremely unlikely , as it can get the university in all sorts of legal troubles . Also , these regulations can get to <URL> ( the story seems to be a legend , but the third comment may be legit ) .
There is an obvious downside of staying at the same university -- you will only work with one set of advisors and contacts throughout your career . That will mean that you may not benefit from the experience and diversity of viewpoints and philosophies that comes from working with different groups of people across the length of your career . However , if there is a compelling reason to remain at your school , that 's a different situation . This could be financial , personal , or educational . For instance , a family member may have a job that makes it difficult to relocate , or a new project may be starting up that provides a unique educational opportunity . Beyond that , though , I would lean towards going somewhere else for your PhD program !
I would thank him in the acknowledgments . Although there is no set standard for what is required to be an author , it is generally accepted that they must make a research contribution . Proofreading definitely does n't meet that criterion ( or any of the other criteria that I have seen ) . I did this in one of my recent papers . I just said : We would also like to thank Bob Bob for his helpful feedback on a draft of the paper .
My supervisor asked me to make an Abbreviations and Symbols part to my thesis This is a reasonable request : when there are many symbols , a list can be definitely helpful to the reader . Now , obviously I wo n't put every variable ( and abbreviation ) into this list . You wo n't put every variable , but you surely want to put any abbreviation . What should the criteria be for putting an entry to the list ? I suggest you to put : special quantities which are defined in your work ; special operators and functions ; mathematical spaces ; and all the abbreviations , even those you think are well known in your field . I also have tried to explain the variables where I 'm using them , is this now redundant when done in conjunction with the list ? No , it 's not redundant because a list of symbols does not typically give the complete definition , but just a short one . Actually , it would be also useful to list the page number where a certain symbol has been defined for the first time . Additionally , should the symbols and abbreviations appear in the list in alphabetical or appearance order ? If you can define an alphabetical order , go for it . Unfortunately , this is not always possible ( in a universally recognized way ) with symbols . In any case , I 'd separate symbols and abbreviations .
" Academic misconduct " is not the same as " Lack of academic performance . " " Academic misconduct " is things like claiming undue credit , fabrication of research or sources , outright plagiarism , etc. . Simply not making the grades might reflect on your academic aptitude , but ( unlike academic misconduct ) does not necessarily reflect upon your character .
So long as you meet or exceed ( but not by too much ! ) the graduate admission requirements of a department , there 's no reason you should n't be able to study there . There 's no fixed rule that says that you ca n't do a master 's in India then do one in the US as well . ( If there is such a rule , it applies only to the departments or universities that impose them ; there are no universal rules that govern US graduate admissions . ) The best bet is , of course , to contact the schools you 're interest in attending and ask them directly what their policies are .
If you are going to cite your scores , then you should check to see if there is a reporting mechanism from ETS that will allow you to send official copies of the scores to the recipients . For instance , NSF had a " college code " so that you could send a report directly to them . Other fellowships may be similar . One caveat that should be mentioned : if a university or fellowship specifically instructs you not to send something , do n't send it . I know that some schools do not want and will not accept additional letters of reference , award citations , publications , and so on . If this is the case for the specific application you 're completing , then you 'll want to find some other way to provide the information . This might be in the form of a mention in one of your essays ( if appropriate ! ) , or in a " supporting information " box in the application .
I always use Dr. ______ whenever I am e-mailing someone at a university and do not know if they have a doctorate . If they do have a doctorate , I have n't insulted them . If they do n't , they chuckle and are pleased .
As someone who hires research assistants in my own department , here are some concerns I would have about such an offer . There are students in my own university who would appreciate the research assistantship . My department has more qualified students to do research than supervisory capacity to give them all that opportunity . I have an aversion to taking on a student who has not made any real commitment to the job and has no accountability . ( I will only take on students who are either getting paid or getting credit for their work with me , partly for this reason . ) I strongly prefer to work with students who will stick around for a while , e.g. undergrads who still have a couple of years left , or M.S. students who may be interested in doing a PhD in my department . Working with research assistants initially takes a lot more time and effort than they save me , and I 'd rather do it with someone who has a chance of sticking around long enough to give me some return on that investment . So for me to consider taking on a research assistant in your situation , you 'd have to assuage some of those concerns . Tell me what skills you already have that will help me and my students advance our current research efforts in the short term . ( This obviously requires that you do your homework and know what my group has been working on recently . ) For example , when you say " I am interested in learning about X , which your students are currently doing , " I hear " This is someone who I or my current students will need to spend a lot of time training to do X - which we do n't really need , because we already have students capable of doing X - and who may or may not stick around long enough for it to pay off . " On the other hand , when you say , " I already know a fair bit about Y , and I think it could advance your research in Z that your students are currently doing , " I hear " This is someone who offers a promising risk - benefit ratio . We wo n't have to spend a lot of time on training , and he/she will bring something useful to the table immediately . " Are your plans to go to graduate school fairly firm ? Do you have a timeline in mind for applying ? If I think that you are committed to the work because you really need it to bolster your graduate school applications , I 'm a little less concerned about you disappearing as soon as something gets difficult , or your day job interferes , etc. . Are you seriously considering applying to grad school at my institution ? If you are , you should definitely say so .
If you know you 're going to continue on to a PhD , then there is no need to pick up a MSc , unless a specific program you 're interested in requires you to acquire the MSc before continuing on to a PhD . Some people want to have the flexibility that comes with acquiring a MSc , but this is a matter of personal interest , rather than a requirement . The danger is , of course , that if you decide to stop your PhD studies , then you run the risk of having worked for several years without any degree at all .
Since you intend to do it on CS I want to point out that the GRE Subject Test on CS ( the one usually asked ) will not be administrated anymore . According to the ETS website : The last administration of the GRE Computer Science Test will be in April 2013 . The test will be discontinued after the April 2013 administration . Scores will continue to be reportable for five years . ( <URL> ) I wanted to say this in a comment ( since it 's not exactly an answer , but I think it 's an important information to you ) , but I ca n't since I do n't have enough reputation on this website to do it :( Therefore , even though I think you wanted more a opinion from people already in academia , I feel obligated to put some more thought on my answer : I 'm a student , currently undergrad ( will graduate at the end of this year ) and I 'm " kinda on the same boat " ( from a third world country , wan na do a Ph.D. on in US in CS and I 've being somewhat lost regarding what to do ) . Here is a compilation about what I have found so far that may be helpful to you : The notions of PhD and MSc in the US may be somewhat different from what you are used to . Quoting from something I 've read in a university website ( ca n't remember which one right now ) " Masters is about breadth , PhD is about depth " . At least in my country ( and I 'm guessing it may be the same for yours ) , both are pretty depth-oriented . - > Keep in mind that , some MSc are breadth oriented , these may not be the droids you are looking for . Also , the programs vary a lot from place to place ... ( And if you are used to the fact that you have to do a MSc prior to the PhD , this is not true for a lot of PhD programs in the US , you can join then directly if you have a bachelor 's degree ) . Example : At CMU , the masters degree is " breadth-oriented " , meaning that you take a lot of advanced courses in various topics , and the PhD is totally research-oriented ( average 6 years , in contrast to the average 2-year MSc + 4-year PhD in my country ) . But in MIT , as far as I 've understood , you apply for grad school , if you are accept and you do n't have a MSc , you are put on a MSc program , if you already do , you are put on the PhD program ( so , seems to be a lot research oriented on both programs ) . - > Make sure you read thoroughly how the programs in the universities you intend to apply are , cause there 's no " standard " . About the " money " part of your question , as far as I 've seen , it goes something like this : MSc : You have to pay for tuition , you may get a paid TA-ship ( Teaching Assitant paid position ) , you may get an RA-ship ( Research Assistant paid position ) , but nothing is guaranteed . PhD : Top universities usually pay you monthly and if the professor that is orientating your research does n't have funding , you need to get an RA or TA job . On other universities , you may need to narrow your options to professors that have funding . - > Keep in mind that , PhD is a better option money-wise , but harder to get in . As pointed on the comments , research capability is a must ( for the " depth " programs at least ) and matters even more than grades . Quoting from a CMU professor on the " Grad School Talk " available at their website : It does not help you , in my opinion , to be closer to 4.0 [ GPA ] as opposed to 3.5 . It 's a much better idea to spend your time on research than on optimizing your GPA . - Keep in mind that proving your research capability matters a lot . But another important quote from this same pdf regarding grades is : Your grades may be somewhat low -- under 3.0 -- because you were having a good time in college and you may therefore be having trouble getting into a Ph.D. program . In this case , you may want to do an MS and use the time to boost your grades and reapply after the MS. Another important thing to note : The things that each program prioritize when looking at your application seem to vary a lot , even among programs at the same university/department . - > Try to figure out what the programs you are aplying prioritize . ( eg : by reading their websites well ) . About TOEFL : It matters a lot , but as far as I understand , it matters in a sense that it prevents you from getting in a program if you do n't have the minimum score needed . * Each university asks for a different TOEFL score . * The top universities ( regarding CS programs ) usually ask for 100 on the IBT ( internet based test , out of 120 ) , an exception being Stanford , that asks for 110 . Regarding IELTS : All universities seem to accept TOEFL , a lot of them seem to accept IELTS , but you need only one of them , so I suggest you go for the TOELF ( for US universities ) . As a plan of action , I suggest this one ( which is kinda what I 'm doing myself ) . Boost your ability to prove " research capability " : It 's VERY important that you have some prior research experience . Have you ever done research as an undergrad ? Do you have professors that can write a recommendation letter for you ? If you do n't , you are ( probably ) gon na need to pursuit this
The basic rule of thumb is this : if you 're actively involved in something at the time of application , then you should mention it . If you 're tentatively enrolled ( for example , you 've been offered admission , but have not yet officially registered ) , then it does n't actually count , and you need not mention it .
If she has reviewed for these journals , then she has , regardless of who asked her to do it , and she can certainly put it on her CV ( it 's accurate and she can back it up ) . One caveat would be if she wrote the reviews but they were submitted under her boss 's name ( with the journals ' agreement ) - in that case , it would be important for her to make clear that she was doing the reviews in lieu of her boss , and was n't asked to do them in her own right . In other words , she certainly has the reviewing experience , but was asked because of her boss 's expertise in the field and not her own ( even if she may have that expertise as well ) .
My personal remark : I am not particularly fan of clicking all around links in an email I just got from a stranger , however natural and official looking it is . From reader engagement point of view : Links directly included to the text actually invite the reader to interrupt their reading and click and go to the website of another university , reading this and that there , instead of reading your mail ! It is exactly you do n't want , becasue you want her/him to stay and read your mail from start to end . If you really want to link , I would make a separate short paragraph at the end or in P.S. , something like " for your convenience , here are links to blablabla " . That way the reader easily can reach those websites , IF she/he chooses and AFTER she/he read your message .
Summary : Is it ok for you to include the CC By-NC 4.0 image in your paper ? Yes . Is it ok for the paper to go through a particular process at the conference ? Maybe ( see below ) . The answer to this question is not clear-cut . There is no general agreement as to what constitutes " commercial purpose " with CC licenses . There has been much <URL> which has resulted in guidelines , but they are still not black and white . The best approach is to contact the person who owns the copyright for the image and ask them for permission . That is the non-ambiguous approach . If that is not possible , the next best approach would be to discuss the issue with the conference in question . Depending on how aware they are about licensing issues , they may already have an option in place to address your situation . A separate issue is the one of copyright transfer . You are free to transfer your own copyrighted content to another body , such as the conference . But you can not assign another person 's copyright to them . Usually there is a line in the copyright transfer agreement that requires you to specify that you own all of the material being assigned to the new owner . Regardless of the outcome above , you do not own the copyright on the image , even if you have permission to use it . These are separate issues . Once again , you should discuss this issue with the conference organizers . My personal experience has been that many conferences request copyright transfer as a blanket process without realizing that it 's often not necessary . When I have contacted such conferences and told them that my work is published under a CC license and that I will NOT assign the copyright to them but WILL give them permission to use it as they see fit , they usually accept and have no problem with it . Sometimes , however , the conferences get stuck on procedure and try to force a single process that does n't fit modern publishing constraints such as the ones you describe .
end question
start question
Is using the phrase " ... is left as an exercise for the reader " considered good style in academic papers/theses ?
I believe it 's only appropriate in the type of writing where you are in a position to give the reader excercises . That is , in course books or other learning material . There , I think it 's fine , assuming you 've already given enough information for them to be able to perform such an excercise . In papers or theses , you 're actually trying to convince the reader that you 're right - the reader is in the position of power , not you , as you want something from them ( to accept your ideas ) and not vice versa . Therefore , I 'd never write such a phrase in a paper or thesis . It 's of course a viable requirement to leave out some parts of the work , either because of space constraints or because they 're trivial , long but straightforward , would derail the course of the text , or something similar . If possible , such parts can be delegated to an appendix , or left out entirely . But I would accompany this with different phrasing , something like this : The formula ( 7 ) can be obtained from ( 6 ) using straightforward application of [ insert appropriate math branch here ] A detailed proof of statement ( 4 ) unfortunately exceeds the scope of this paper . The derivation of ( 3 ) from ( 1 ) is too long to present here , but it can be worked out using a symbolic computation system such as Mathematica . Equation ( 7 ) follows from a straightforward application of this-or-that theorem to equation ( 5 ) ; we refer the reader to existing literature on the topic for details of this .
There are two separate issues here : omitting the proof , and calling it an exercise . It is relatively common to omit some proofs in research papers . In particular , proofs that are long but routine , or that re-use the same method as other proofs in the paper , are often abbreviated or removed . It depends on the intended audience for the paper , to some extent . You will get a sense of this by reading more research papers . But caution is needed : one of the first places to look for errors in a paper is in results where the proof was omitted ! The question whether to call something in your paper an " exercise " is more difficult . I would n't be surprised if some people do it -- but some people do n't write very well . The audience for a paper includes your peers , and you are not really in a position to assign them homework . There are other ways to indicate that a proof is easy besides calling it an exercise : " the following theorem follows directly from definitions " , " the proof of the following theorem is routine " , " the proof of the following theorem is similar to the proof of Theorem 1.3 " , etc. . Giving a small hint of how to prove the result can make the paper stronger , and it helps any readers who are not experts in the area .
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
As others have said , not every ( old ) article has a DOI or a URL . However , in mathematics every article since 1940 has an MR number which uniquely identifies it . So go to <URL> and look up this article . I just did , it has MR number MR0844292 . The bibliographical information on mathscinet ( like the transliteration of the author 's name ) would also be considered the " canonical information " .
" Published " is a vague word , since for example you can even self-publish a book . Ideally , a published book will have been carefully selected and edited , widely distributed , archived in many libraries , etc. . How close it comes to this ideal varies , of course . I do n't know whether what you are describing would meet a formal definition of publication , but I 'd be careful about how you describe it . For example , if your book has an ISBN , is labeled with a publisher like " X University Press " , and is publicly offered for sale ( perhaps only through the university 's website and university bookstore ) , then I would consider it published , even if only on a small scale . ( It may be cheap , but there 's no requirement that a published book must have gilded pages . ) However , that sounds unlikely to be true in the case you 've described . Instead , you could describe it in other ways : If anyone who wants a copy can buy one by getting in touch with your department , then you could describe it as a " book distributed by the Department of ... at University X " . If your book is not offered for sale to anyone except students in the course , then you might describe it as a " book prepared as course materials for ... at University X " . You might also want to specify something like the number of pages , to help distinguish between a lengthy book and shorter lecture notes .
In my experience with graduate admissions in mathematics departments , all complete applications are looked at by departmental faculty ( and mildly incomplete ones may be looked at as well , albeit more briefly ) . So I think it is likely that your letters will be read . However , you say that your GRE scores are " much below average " . I will assume that your description is somewhat factually based and thus that they are below the 35th percentile . In my department -- about the 50th best -- we would like to see higher scores than that , but we can take chances on some applicants for whom that is the only weak point . Admission to the top 10 math departments in the US is much more competitive than this : they can fill their classes with applicants who are extremely successful according to all the standard metrics . If they deviate from that then they will do so only for someone who is truly exceptional . You say that your " thesis features some new results known to experts but not otherwise " . I do n't mean to be harsh , but this sounds quite equivocal : to a research mathematician " new " implies that it is not known to experts . I suppose you would have mentioned if you had published your results , so I will say that it is often difficult to publish such results in a reputable journal . Anyway " truly exceptional " here means that you have results that were not just unknown to everyone but are actually surprising / exciting to the experts , and that they are eager to build on your work and learn more about your ideas . It sounds like what you 've done is write an ordinarily strong master 's thesis , and in my opinion this is not going to offset your poor GRE scores . My advice is to apply to a lot of departments . Every individual committee gets to decide how much to value GRE scores ; I have certainly met individual faculty members who do not place much stock in them , so while it is unlikely that an entire admissions committee would feel that way , it must happen sometimes . If you do n't get into a good enough department , you should consider deferring for a year , retaking the GRE under better conditions and really nailing it . If you really do feel that you can do much better on it , then waiting one year and then going to a top department is probably a better career move in the long run . However , if you wait a year , take the GRE again and do n't do better , it will be disappointing , so you should make an effort to figure out whether you will really do better , which may involve taking practice tests but also some soul-searching and personal honesty . Good luck . And to everyone else who is reading this : yes , for math PhD students , the GRE is a very serious business . Please take it seriously and plan to do well , rather than trying to figure out how to paint over this weakness in your application .
The definition of sabbatical in Wikipedia refers to labor terminology rather than academic sabbatical leave . As a privilege to employees , they can have temporary unpaid leave ( for any personal reason ) without losing their job . However , academic sabbatical historically is somehow different . When a scholar needs peace of mind to focus on a challenging issue , s/he will visit a new institute to experience a new atmosphere . While still being in the academic environment , not having heavy official duties . There are several motivations for a sabbatical leave ( at least as I have seen ) : A manager finishes an administrative position ( e.g. Dean ) , and wishes to rest in a different atmosphere , but not far from academia . A researcher working on a new idea , prefers to focus on his/her work somewhere with less commitments on everyday responsibilities ( e.g. teaching , advising , etc ) . A researcher is exploring new possibilities and opportunities , spend some time in a new department to live with new colleagues for a while . A researcher is collaborating with another group and spend a year in the host research group as a visiting scientist/professor while being on sabbatical leave from his/her institute . A professor in a mid-level university finds a temporary position in a top university . This is the base for many visiting professors in the US universities , e.g. international professors can experience working in the US universities . Even there are associate/assistant professors who find a post-doc position in the top universities , and use sabbatical leave , not to lose their job at home . In any case , sabbatical allowance mainly depends on the university employment rules .
The <URL> Of , relating to , or characteristic of an educational institution or environment ; concerned with the pursuit of research , education , and scholarship ; scholarly , educational , intellectual . has a focus on education . The <URL> Academic institution is an educational institution dedicated to education and research , which grants academic degrees . also has a focus on education and a requirement to grant academic degrees . To me degree granting is critical to being an academic institution . I do not think of any non-degree granting institute as being academic . Places like the German MPIs and US National Laboratories are cutting edge research institutes , but not academic-institutes . Non-academic research institutions often have a grants office , just like their academic counterparts . Further employees at non-academic institutions that wish to conduct research can often get a research appointment at a local university .
I would recommend that you ask yourself a question : why do I want this book " officially " published ? You could , after all , just make the material free online via arXiv or as a webpage or an archival technical report of various types depending on its contents and your situation . Prestige of having a published book ? A pay-to-publish press will generally give you negative credibility , since there are so many publishers that will publish your book without making you pay ( including lots of dodgy low-quality ones that will publish pretty much anything ) . Pay-to-publish smells like desperation or resume-padding . Money from sales/royalties ? If they thought it was going to make money , they would be paying you , not the other way around . Higher visibility ? A pay-to-publish press will generally not be any good at promoting your work . They 're not going to invest any real money in promotion if they are n't expecting to make significant money from sales . Serious and reputable academic publishing houses are always looking for good books to publish . The right ones for your field will generally have booths at the major conferences in the field , with representatives that you can talk to .
Depending on the program I would keep it between 1.5 to 2 pages . I framed mine to answer the following questions : Why am I applying to this school . What are my research interests . Previous academic accomplishments . Previous professional accomplishments . Personal story of triumph ( optional , I talk about having to drop out of high school to support my family ) What is your goal after graduation . Addition : I would also target schools that are pumping out the research that matches with your interests ... this will help when you are stating why you are applying like : A major factor in helping me choose Awesome University was Professor Awesome 's research on being awesome . I feel that this aligns well with my research interests , and would make for a great fit between me and the department . Also , if you talk about any abstract ideas be sure to elaborate on them to give a level of specificity . They want to see you be able to translate abstract ideas into specific thoughts .
This phrase is just standard boiler-plate verbiage . The title of a conference is generally too vague to define a community precisely , because different people might interpret such a short phrase in different ways . Thus , when you are designing a call for papers , you generally try to give a bunch of examples as a way of giving a more concrete outline of the sort of community that you are trying to reach . But it 's a highly inexact procedure , and the boundaries of communities are generally fuzzy in any case . Thus , the " not limited to " phrase is included as a less informal way of saying , " If what we described kinda smells like your research , do n't worry too much about whether it fits a bullet point , and just submit . "
It is not entirely unreasonable to include a citation in an abstract , if the reason you are citing it is because your paper is a major extension , rebuttal , or counterpoint to the cited article . In that case , however , you do have the responsibility of providing the reference within the body of the abstract . For example , We extend upon the results of Smith [ Journal of Very Important Results , 1 , 374 ( 2012 ) ] to include the effects of a doohickey at the end of the thingamajig . In such a case , the abstract remains self-contained , with an important citation included . ( This is especially essential if an author is well-known for multiple papers , in which case the reference can be used to distinguish the varous works that could be intended . ) Large numbers of citations , however , should be avoided , as should " secondary " citations . Only the most critical literature for a paper should be cited , and that should normally be limited to one or two . Any more than that , and the abstract becomes hard to read .
In many cases , academic institutions will be legally obliged to fill positions according to the procedure you described . This usually requires publishing a call for applications in a suitable medium , and putting together a short list of selected candidates based on qualification for the position and fit to the announcement . Now there may be the " problem " that the person or group that will select the candidate already has a specific candidate in mind and want to " assign " the position to that candidate . However , simply hiring that candidate without going through the formal process would in fact be illegal . So the typical workaround in this case is to make the announcement so specific that the desired candidate will be the best qualified person for the position . It may be ethically questionable , but I fear it is totally legal . Still , even for other candidates , this approach seems to be better than allowing the institution to just fill the position without the formal process . Especially if there is a committee deciding on the short list , this may even be different from the group that made up the announcement , and there may be people pushing for candidates they deem more qualified than the originally desired candidate . Chances for other candidates will clearly be rather low , but still higher than zero as in the case without announcement . As to the question whether it is possible to find out about such a situation in advance , I fear it is not that easy . It works best when one has good contacts to people in the committee , and can ask informally about the situation . Otherwise , a reasonable approach would be to phone a contact given in the announcement and discuss details of the position . In many cases , one should be able to figure out whether the other person is open to applications or not .
I do n't think using or even adapting a sample form letter would be very helpful , just as a canned letter would n't be very successful in a job application . A couple of thoughts : In cases like these , a good network definitely helps . If you know someone , even only slightly , that gives you a better starting position that just cold calling someone . Think through your network , and even if you do n't know anyone you could meaningfully invite , maybe someone from your network knows someone she or he could introduce you to . Can you at least offer reimbursement of travel costs ? If not , look for people working close to you . Budgets are tight , and your speaker may have a hard time getting reimbursed for such a talk from his company . Just as for a job application : when you do contact someone , be brief and to the point . Introduce yourself ( if necessary ) , briefly describe your class and ask whether your candidate would in principle be interested . Offer to follow up with details - do n't include them in the first email . People in industry are busy ( just as everyone else ) . However , you should definitely include a tidbit that ( a ) makes speaking interesting for your candidate and ( b ) helps him/her get permission/budget from the employer . Are your classmates close to graduation ? Then the company can present itself as an interesting employer . Do you have any interesting projects ? Are you working in a field that is related to your candidate 's employer or even better to you candidate 's own work ? Are you perhaps potential customers ? Any kind of motivation is good . Above all , do n't worry overmuch . Everyone 's ego is tickled at being invited to speak , even if they do n't accept the invitation . And established people , whether in industry or in academia , often are happy to accept such invitations and help students out . The worst that could happen is a polite refusal ( or no answer at all ) . The best would be a nice talk and an interesting contact for later on . I kind of wonder whether this question would n't be better at workplace.SE.com . You 'll get more answers from industry there than at academia.SE.com . Perhaps you want to consider flagging it for migration .
Running a journal with Wiley as a publisher , Wiley 's instructions state JPEG , TIFF and EPS are acceptable formats . Since many authors supply figures in PDF and PNG I started to pass these on to the type-setter and found that no issues erupted . It is therefore clear that publishers may lag behind with their recommendations while type-setters are quicker to adapt to " new " formats . I imagine the lag is possibly a lack of interest to update what works , but can also be because they work with many type-setters and printers and wish to maintain a largest common set of files that they know all can accept rather than having to constantly adapt to individual services ' capabilities . I am fully aware that this thinking is a bit arcane and that any type-setter/printer that can not handle almost everything has very little potential for survival in today 's competitive world . Anyway . I would suggest asking the journal if it is possible to use PNG in your case , or do as many authors have done in " my " journal , send them in anyway . It may , for example , be possible to send in a JPG and a PNG copy of the graphics asking them to use the PNG if possible . As a side point : PNG is in my opinion the best pixel format because of its strong loss-less compression except for photographs , something it was never intended for anyway . Using PNG graphics will keep down the size of final PDFs of the article which is a good goal to have . So in my case , I encourage authors to provide PNG even though Wiley does not .
I 've never been one to sit down and read a journal edition cover to cover . I think you 're better off skimming titles and abstracts for articles that pique your interest . You should do this for conference proceedings too . You ca n't attend every talk at a conference , nor should you really expect yourself to read every article . At some point you will need to narrow your interest to something pretty specific in order to develop a dissertation . You will also need to develop depth and historical perspective on your chosen topic . You should probably spend as much , if not more , time reading interesting individual articles and all their important references ( and so on ! ) as you should trying to read whole journal editions or entire conference proceedings . There 's value in a depth-oriented approach to reading articles . I find that there 's a pruning strategy of sorts that keeps you out of stuff that 's not interesting . Sometimes randomly selected articles can be worthwhile , but there 's lots of stuff out there that will be boring to you . Using a good article as a guide and reading some of its references can be much more productive .
From your question , I am concerned that you have not talked to the " author " about the manuscript . You must get permission from all authors prior to submitting a manuscript . It is not acceptable to submit a manuscript without permission from all authors nor is it acceptable to leave an author off just because they have left the group . As for what is acceptable for an email address and affiliation , almost anything goes ( as long as it is not misleading ) . I personally think universities and research groups should give permanent forwarding addresses to eliminate/reduce these issues . In terms of the affliation , you should also ask the author . It is not uncommon to list an affiliation as the company/university where the work was done and provide a new corresponding address . As for email , it is common to list only the current address . This might be a new corporate email address , assuming it is appropriate . If not , a personal email or a new personal/professional email address is fine . Again , just ask the author and do what they want .
I think the difference is whether the Festschrift is its own book ( then the quality solely depends on the editors ) or in a renowned peer-reviewed journal ( who 'd have a reputation to loose with a bad special issue ) . And I 'd have a look what is the title and what the subtitle - the impression of " Festschrift for Big Guy " is entirely different from " Scientific Subject " subtitle " dedicated to Big Guy " or " collected in honor of Big Guy 's scientific work " . In my field , special issues of peer-reviewed journals about conferences or concentrating on a certain subject are common . The idea behind the conference issues is to ensure the normal peer-review process because conference proceedings have a bad reputation of no or no real review after the contribution is accepted ( by abstract only ) . To the point that many people do not submit conference proceedings because they see them as a complete waste of time . The indications I have are that the peer review process is up to the usual standard of the journal . If you look at <URL> of a special issue dedicated to Prof. Mantsch , you 'll see that the special issue consists of original research , there is n't even a review article in about the historical development of the field in that issue ( there is an editorial , though ) . Also , it is primarily a conference special issue , and this conference ( of a regular series ) also had the dedication ( which came out most at the conference dinner speech , not at the scientific sessions ) . Our paper had a two-line dedication before the abstract , and besides that it is a normal original research paper that underwent peer-review . I have not seen in my field a special issue that was primarily dedicated to someone and not primarily thematic with a dedication . ( thematic special issues ) : I do n't know whether the reviewers know that the paper is intended for the special issue , I never had a review to do that indicated anything of the sort . In my experience not only the normal quality but also the normal subject criteria apply . Sometimes , the invitation takes place only after the peer-review process is over : after the acceptance of a paper we were asked whether we 'd like it to be published in a special issue that was upcoming and where it thematically fit in . Sometimes , special issues are not filled by invitations , but the fact that a thematic special issue is planned , is circulated .
While I have never experienced a department that defined " absent days " , if your department regulates these things , you need to ask you department chair what the policy is . Departments that I am familiar with expect you to either teach when you are supposed to , arrange someone to cover the teaching , or rearrange the session . In some situations an out of class activity wold be acceptable and in rare cases outright canceling of the class . One should try and keep these to a minimum , but to the extent that the students are not complaining , you can probably get away with it . I have never seen a department which limits the number of conferences , but if you are rarely around , it will probably come back to bite you . In general , if you are worried about these things , you should ask a senior colleague .
The person 's title in this case is ( almost always ) Dr , so " Dear Dr Last-name " would be the standard salutation for a first correspondence . If they sign their reply with their first name , then you can consider yourself welcome to write " Dear First-name " in future . Academics in the UK are very used to receiving email addressing them as Professor , so it 's not a big problem if you do this , but there is probably a slight increase in the chance that they might view your email as spam ( I say this because the overwhelming majority of emails I get which address me as Professor are at least somewhat spammy ) . If someone 's title is Professor , this will always be listed on the university website , so if you 've done your research and found out that they are not a professor , it 's probably best to use Dr.
end question
start question
Why do some articles recite/repeat known concepts ?
Not everyone who reads a paper is going to be in your field and have the same background no matter how basic it might initially seem . In researching literature , I often come across sociology , economics , history , etc , papers . That initial regurgitation in a paper might seem really obvious to sociologists , economists , and historians , but it is n't necessarily so obvious for me ( and nicely tends to give references if I feel the need for further background knowledge ) . It also helps out people in the field , especially when they 're not as current on the specific topic ( when was the last time a scholar of modern American theater read Beowulf ? Likely graduate school ) . It helps for understanding the approach used as well as seeing the paper 's context , relevance , and importance within the field . Even at a basic level , when someone recaps a plot/situation in a single paragraph for me , it 's enough to jog my memory and save me from needing to pull the book back out and read a hundred pages just to follow the paper .
I agree with Dave Clarke . I think the primary purpose of a bibliography should be to offer the reader a way to read the cited material . A version of the paper on the arXiv achieves this goal better than any other means I know . However , it 's also important that the cited material has been verified . By citing the journal version of the paper , the author communicates that it has been .
The first question is a relatively simple problem . Researchers have the utility of : some research being published in some rated venue : which will award them points according to some criteria . some research being cited , which will award also points according to some other criteria . some research being purchased : which will award some sweet additional income . some research being read : which does n't award any points per se , but helps to create some buzz around it , get cites , funding , etc. . This requires the research to be published before . " making a meaningful contribution to science/knowledge/understanding " . Look at the last bullet point , the rewards come from the inside of the researchers in that case , no raise , no money , no external reward . This means that if people focus on that too much they may not make any progress in their careers and they may actually fail in the search for funding or even a job . Therefore , successful people will have a strong interest/utility on the other points , the last one may or may not be important for them , but definitively secondary . They may say it 's the primary goal , but they wo n't act like that , or they will fail . I 'm an introvert and this sucks , but that is how the system is , it 's mathematical . The points and external rewards are very important . They may be important to finish a MSc or a PhD , to get a post-doc position , a job in industry , a tenured position , a raise , a project , funding , etc. . But we are not done yet . They do also have resources to get some attention : social networks ( twitter , linkedIn , etc. ) blogs conferences journals books etc. . Do you remember the last point ? , blogs seem to be perfectly suitable to making this kind of contribution , but they are not peer reviewed and they do n't award any points , therefore , they are used like twitter . Get buzz , get attention , then link the paper so that people can read it . You can even summarize the paper in the blog so that people can cite it without actually reading it , which is wrong on so many levels that actually some of them cancel each other and happens to be right in some levels , at least IMHO . Finally have some pieces of research that they can split like salami or maybe put together as a compilation to create a book , or they can even try to split , publish in conferences , then put together as a journal , then join with even more stuff and write a book . So basically in the end researchers try to publish the research using the resources available trying to maximize the utility of their research , effort , time , publications , etc. . Those who do it right ( not focusing on the last point of the utility ) get to do more and more research , and so the academia system works , and so it is driven . Basically this is a problem of cybernetics . This is an emergent information system that is mostly driven in that way , with those dynamics and that convergence . Maybe we would have a better system if it was explicitly engineered and not emergent , but as usual , the ones that have the most power to change it are the ones that are most favored by the current system . There is always some strength in the stability of the status quo . About the second question , the answer for me is " no " . I guess that 's why I 'm here writing with a pseudonym .
There is a variety of reasons , as someone who has worked on such projects , here are a few that come to mind : Access to research facilities . It 's often far more rational to fund a study in a university than to invest in building your own wet lab/cleanroom/animal testing lab , etc. . In some fields and countries , there are also regulations that limits certain area of research to university institutions ( example : research on human tissues ) . Highly educated , relatively cheap human resources In the subsets of projects where academic researchers actually do the work from the project description , it is generally cheaper and bears fewer risks than hiring people directly . Great way of recruiting scientists by establishing a close collaboration , the company has the opportunity to meet and see potential hires in action . In some fields , it can be a form of advertisement . In particular for companies that have scientists or research labs as customers . Example : lab equipment manufacturer , metrology tools , lasers , etc. . Do they get actual patents out of it ? Yes . It 's frequent for industry-funded projects to result in patents . The patents are usually owned jointly by the company and the academic institution . Sometimes the technology is already patented and the study is only about testing an application . Publishing a technology in the scientific literature can also be a way to prevent other companies from claiming ownership , since you ca n't patent something that is already published . Note that industry implication in academic research might diminish , as it becomes evident that they are n't always getting good research for their money . See : <URL>
You can try searching for " Lie admissible algebra " on <URL> and the <URL> . There are a few papers each year that mention this topic , but it does n't seem to be a major research area in its own right . If you are thinking about topics for graduate school , this seems to me to be way too specific to narrow down to before choosing an advisor . ( I assume you are n't already working in this research area yourself : if you did , you 'd have more information about who else is . ) As for math departments in the U.S. , two of the authors of references in the article you linked to ( Benkart and Osborn ) are emeritus professors at Wisconsin , and Myung used to be at Northern Iowa but has since died . You could try looking up the authors of papers on the topic that excite you , but this wo n't give you a wide range of schools in the U.S. , especially now that Benkart and Osborn have retired . Instead , I agree with Chris C that you 'd be better off considering a broader area .
I am not aware of any university having agreements with other universities about exchanging exam questions and i doubt that such agreements would exist in many places . I would wager a bet that the same is pretty much true on departmental level . On the level of individual teachers there might be many reasons why exam questions pop up in different places . One has been mentioned by Brian Borchers in a comment ( questions taken from textbooks ) . Secondly , many first - and second-year courses teach pretty standard material which often has not changed for quite a while ( e.g. basic linear algebra in many disciplines ) . For such courses ( and even some higher-level courses ) the set of questions that are useful as exam questions tends to be limited and so i would not find it surprising to find that most if not all questions have been asked somewhere and have been discussed on the web . Thirdly , it is not unheard of that teachers re-use exam questions from previous years . Fourth : sometimes teachers talk to each other and exchange experiences and material .
From what I have observed , having a specific deadline for abstracts is used for two main reasons : having a rough idea of the number of submissions and organise a bidding for the reviewers . Having the number of submissions can help deciding of a possible deadline extension and possible to " recruit " more PC members or reviewers if the number largely exceeds the expectation . Organising a bidding based on the abstract allow the PC members to indicate their preference for each paper ( e.g. , I want to review this paper , I could review this paper , I could n't review this paper ) , so that when the actual papers arrive , the distribution is already organised .
Typically I include an explicit recommendation in the report to be shared with the authors when I have a strong opinion , but not necessarily otherwise . In the former case , the editor can still decide either way ( referees make recommendations , not decisions ) , but if they disagree with me at least the authors will know for sure what the referee thought . what is the point of adding the decision statement while the overall evaluation ( i.e. on EasyChair system ) explicitly says it ? is it just the reviewer habit ? It may be habit , and it may reflect uncertainty about what information from the web form will be available to the authors .
In general , this kind of result might be worth publishing , also in top journals . However , it is impossible to tell without knowing the specifics . It might well be something that has been known as a " folklore result " for long in your field . Luckily , you say that the leader of your research group is the major expert on this . So , ask him and not a random bunch of people from other fields you found on the internet . If you have already asked and he disagrees , chances are that he is right . But if you disagree and insist that it is a major breakthrough , you can still write everything up , put it on arXiv , and wait for feedback from other researchers .
I have written a couple of articles for 2 different daily newspapers . In them , I have discussed the issues of my academic field . Should I include them in my CV ? Yes , certainly , as long as you clearly separate them from your academic publications . Strictly speaking , they are form of publication , so it would n't be lying to list them together with your research papers under a vague enough title , but this would be a very bad idea . It would come across like you are trying to make your publication list look longer by inflating it with non-academic publications . [ If the newspaper articles had nothing at all to do with your academic work , then mentioning them probably would n't make sense . However , it sounds like they do . ] If so , under what title ? Is press release appropriate ? What is the most common and accepted term ? Definitely not press release , since a press release is something else : it 's a document given to journalists to inform them about a possible story they could write about . Occasionally newspapers publish lightly edited versions of press releases , without gathering much more information , but this is considered bad reporting . I do n't think there 's a clear standard for how to list this information . You could list it in several ways : outreach , other publications ( if you have a " scholarly publications " section , say ) , writing for the general public , etc. .
Making an OpenCourseWare course is n't as simple as getting a team of kids with videocameras and uploading the course onto YouTube . There is a surprisingly high standard that the Professor and the University attempts to meet when they prepare a course to be deposited onto OpenCourseWare . Stanford had built entire classrooms for the purpose of sharing online classes . Many of them have 3-4 cameras controlled by two operators while another is entirely responsible for the sound . Classes that require a balance between boardwork , slides , and discussion require a very well-trained team of videographers to recognize what they are supposed to be looking at without breaking the rhythm of the course and capturing the intent of the lecturer . Ask any Professor how prepared their lectures are . Despite how absent-minded most professors seem , there is a large amount of practice and slidology behind each lecture . OCW adds a whole other layer to preparation since the course actually has to run on schedule and conclude with the course completed . The materials used require additional thought since OCW is limited to only a single camera . Look at some of Yale 's early OTC courses ; the professor will make references to a figure and the camera will be focused on his gestures rather than the actual information that they are trying to portray . Lastly online courses are extremely expensive and do n't truly make the return on investment as one would imagine . For instance , Utah State was forced to <URL> .
The following assumes that you do not have to follow strict guidelines for your CV ( in which case you would most probably have consulted them already ) . You put stuff on a CV for a reason , usually to showcase your achievements or experience . When deciding what to put on a CV , this should be your main criterion , i.e. , do you think that whoever reads your CV will be positively impressed reading this -- in contrast to being annoyed by having to read about every tiny thing you ever published ? Whether the article in question is sufficiently noteworthy , is something that only you and people who are familiar with your work ( such as a supervisor ) can decide . It might help to ask yourself the following questions : Are you at a stage where you list every publication , talk and poster on your CV or are you only listing " selected publications " ? Is the correspondence relevant and can you expect the reader to know or see this ? Did you , e.g. , find a serious flaw in a publication that was considered seminal until your correspondence ? Has your correspondence been cited ? Did your correspondce require a noteworthy effort and can you expect the reader to know or see this ? Are you the main contributor to the correspondence ? Considering where to put this correspondence , I would try to avoid creating a new category for one item only , i.e. , I would put it in some fitting category or choose the categories such that it fits in one of them . Either way , I would ensure that the correspondence can not be mistaken for a regular publication . If your correspondence does not have a title like " Reply to ... " , which makes this obvious , you can , e.g. , append " ( correspondence ) " to the entry . Disclaimer : The above is based on thought only . I have no experience in putting correspondce on a CV .
Yes , it is absolutely ethical to use these files during your research . Many publishers allow academic authors to upload a so-called " preprint " version of a paper to their own institutional websites or put them in repositories , and of course these can be used by others in research . There 's maybe just two minor things to be careful about : You should try to verify that the preprint version is mostly up to date with the published version , comparing e.g. publication dates . It is common practice to put the " official " publication source , i.e. , the journal version , into your reference list . Nevertheless , if you ca n't make sure that the versions are equivalent regarding what you 're citing them for , it may be necessary to state that you were using a preprint version . In some cases , authors may put papers online even though it 's technically a breach of copyright . But since you do n't know the author 's agreement with the publisher , you have no way of checking that , and in any case , it would be the author or institution that violates copyright , but not you .
Who can peer-review articles ? Anyone competent enough to be asked in the first place . For conferences ( e.g. , in engineering or computer science ) , peer-review is conducted by a Programme Committee . To be invited to be part of a Programme Committee ( typically done by Chairs or Senior Programme Committee in larger conferences ) , you need to have a reasonable track record of research and a solid reputation in the area in question . I have seen PCs of reputable conferences in CS with many senior PhDs ( I was in PCs myself as a PhD student ) . For journals , you are invited to review by a member of the Editorial Board . They would weigh your experience and track-record accordingly . Again , you may get asked to review journal papers as a PhD student ( I was also asked to review various journal papers as a PhD student ) . Last but not least , you may be delegated a peer-review by someone who was asked to do a review ( where that person was asked by the EB of a journal or as part of a PC for a conference ) . In that case , however , the responsibility for the quality of the review lies squarely with the delegator . In this case , a junior PhD student might be given a peer-review but with the idea that the delegator will check over it and discuss before submitting . ( This is a good way to learn the process of peer-reviewing . ) I was unable to find any information online about this . I asked a colleague who told me that there are no restrictions on who may review an article , although he thought it was very unlikely that an un-published person may be asked to review . I agree with your colleague . The delegation of peer-review is left to the judgement of the EB/PC/Chairs . They will take into account seniority and research track record in their judgement . Formal restrictions would only serve to rule out qualified reviewers from an often already too narrow field . I am submitting an engineering research paper in the near future and the submission process requires that I suggest at least three reviewers . One of the reviewers I would like to suggest has not yet completed their PhD , although they have three publications that are closely related to mine . I know that it will be up to the editor to decide whether to contact this person , but it made me wonder if there are any specific criteria that reviewers have to meet . I suggest submitting the name of the supervisor of the PhD student you think would be a good reviewer . The supervisor offers the editor a more senior name , should be knowledgeable in the area and if not , can solicit the advice of the PhD student in question or delegate the review entirely if appropriate . As per my comment ( and as a side note since it is not directly asked about ) I find the practice of suggesting reviewers for your own paper a little strange ( though I have seen it before on occasion ) . First there 's the obvious possibility of selecting one 's friends or of prior deal-making ( assuming the suggestions were taken into account ... otherwise why would they ask ? ) . Aside from that , if I 'm submitting to a journal in my area , I expect the editorial board to have some members that would be sufficiently knowledgeable about my topic to get the paper in good hands . Having to suggest reviewers calls into question ( slightly ) the competence of the EB and/or the relevance of the journal . In any case , if the journal is otherwise reputable , this should not hold you back from submitting .
As I understand it , the point of such reduced teaching loads is to allow for more time for writing papers and research proposals , as well as preparing any " package " required as part of the tenure application . Ideally , such a reduction would be done a little bit preceding the last semester before submitting the tenure application , so that the papers and proposals can be reviewed and published ( or accepted , as the case may be ) before submitting the application .
If the paper is well written , then the abstract should tell you most of the story at a high level . Then the introduction should give more technical coverage again of the whole story -- you should then know the problem and the results obtained , though not all the details . The remainder of the paper then will contain just the details . Of course , most papers do not do that , so you may also need to read the conclusion , the discussion section , and perhaps any other introductory sections . In the end , you may need to read the whole paper before you get what it is about . However , to really understand the paper , you will need to go through it very slowly , with pen and paper at hand , and try to replicate the reasoning/ideas given in the paper , filling in the gaps -- possibly with the help of additional literature . Not all papers need to be read so deeply . Reading just the abstract and maybe the introduction and conclusion should help you decide how deep to read the paper .
This is a really big question , which unfortunately has no simple answer . Some short comments : Universities have very little choice about subscribing to journals , as long they publish good papers , since faculty need access to those papers to do their research . The solution has to start on the publishing side . Collaborating to create free , open access , peer-reviewed journals is a fine idea , but either you need to convince universities to support this financially , or you need to recruit enormous numbers of dedicated volunteers . ( Whenever this topic comes up , someone is sure to point out that volunteers run some free , high-quality online journals . Of course they do , but the question is how to recruit hundreds of times as many volunteers . ) Printing is a non-issue . Everything is already available online , with printed copies only for those who want them . In a mathematics context , see <URL> and <URL> for more details .
I would say instead that it would be much more surprising if these departments all had the same names , particularly for relatively new and cross-disciplinary areas of work like in your example . The domains of science are broad and overlapping , and there are many ways that the whole domain can end up being parsed into departments by different institutions , just like <URL> . Given that there are many reasonable possible clusterings and names , the actual determinants tend to be very contingent and historical . Among these are : Interdepartmental politics , including which part of a university wants to sponsor the new department , which faction of an old department wants to split away . The viewpoint of the faculty forming the department Popularity of subjects over time : small departments merge and large departments split . There are many other possible causes as well . Thus , the question is not : " Why are they different ? " but " Why would you expect them to be the same ? "
The three things are doing pretty different jobs , and so should be pretty different in content . The abstract is an advert for your paper . Someone might read a list of titles and abstracts ( for example on arXiv ) and decide on that basis whether it 's worth their while downloading and reading the rest of the paper . The abstract has to be attractive , but not fraudulent ( ' truth in advertising ' ! ) . When you read an abstract , you 're trying to find out : ( i ) is this paper in my area ? , ( ii ) is it asking a question I care about ? ( iii ) does the conclusion sound interesting ? You do n't have to summarise the whole paper , but you do have to answer those questions . The introduction gives your reader a map of the paper . By the end of the introduction , your reader should have a pretty good idea of what they 're in for , and where they 're going to end up . They should know what sections they 're probably going to skip , and which ones they look forward to disagreeing with . A paper is not a detective novel : you do n't need cliffhangers or mysteries . After that , the conclusion does n't have a lot of work to do ( at least in my experience ) . It might be the last thing the reader reads of your paper ( that is , unless they care enough about its contents that they 'll re-read it ) , so this is an opportunity for you to frame their memory of it . " We have shown that ... " is the sort of thing you 'd find here . Key points : Remember the reader is a human being , just like you -- talk to them , as you 'd like to be talked to ( far far too many people bizarrely forget this ) . Make it easy for them to read the paper , and easy to agree with you ( that 's why the introduction has a map of the paper , to ease the reader 's way through your golden prose ) . Your reader is asking themself " why am I reading this paper ? " Make sure they have a good answer to that question by the end of the introduction . If you get a colleague to read your draft , get them to answer that question at that point . If they do n't give the answer you want them to , it 's your fault ; so edit . There will probably be some overlap in text in the three parts . That 's OK , but it probably should n't be cut-and-paste .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
end question
start question
Can you apply for a PhD that requires an MSc when only 2/3 of MSc grades will be in by application time ?
Yes . When a degree is required prior to starting a program , that degree is needed in order to enrol , but not to apply .
It is unlikely that a reviewer or other participant in the peer review process will outright steal the work he/she is reviewing and publish it as original work , because it is easy to get caught . If the " real " author of the work accuses the thief of plagiarism , the editor of the journal can verify that the work was originally submitted by the " real " author before it was published by the rogue reviewer . ( Also see : <URL> ) If the rogue reviewer is caught , the paper will be retracted ( which is damaging to his professional reputation ) and there may also be other consequences for the reviewer . See e.g. <URL> .
Using a CC-BY license on arxiv.org will be fine whenever you do n't need to retain exclusive rights . CC-BY is a non-exclusive license , and you are free to grant as many non-exclusive licenses as you wish . However , you wo n't be able to grant a exclusive license thereafter , which is what most commercial publishers are looking for . The typical " transfer of copyright " would essentially be an exclusive license in these cases . If you intend to publish the paper submitted to arxiv.org with an open access publisher , it should generally work with a CC-BY license . Most open access publishers require only a non-exclusive license to publish a paper , so there would be no conflict here . It may however not be possible to go to a publisher which requires either an exclusive license or a copyright transfer afterwards . Interestingly , a copyright transfer may be less restrictive than an exclusive license in this case . In principle , it should be possible to transfer copyright even if a license have already been granted to someone else ( that 's how a company would buy software from another company that has already been licensed ) . So , why not try the following with your next paper : Submit it to arxiv under a CC-BY license . Submit to a commercial publisher , and add a statement like this to the copyright transfer agreement : " This agreement is with the understanding that a non-revocable , non-exclusive license under the terms CC-BY has been granted to a arxiv.org . " I wonder how they 'd react ...
It 's hard to predict how this will develop in the future . As is , I have yet to hear any positive success story from my peers . All I 've heard of ResearchGate are complaints about their invitation spam . If you sign up ( or are already signed up ) , make sure to carefully check all settings . There are some " hidden " settings that will repeatedly send out " Invitations " and even " Invitation reminders " to your peers ( make sure to disable this right at signup time , before " claiming " a single paper ! ) . You can imagine that if your peer gets a dozen of them each week , he will get annoyed . And ReseachGate uses your name for the invitation , so he will get annoyed at you . Before " requesting " a paper on Researchgate , make sure they have signed up . Otherwise , use regular email ( even better , just use regular email right away ! ) When you request a paper from a non-user , they will be sent an invitation letter , but they can not answer without joining : researchgate does not include contact information in your request !?! Other than that , I have the impression that ResearchGate is mostly used by students , not by established researchers . Therefore , do not expect much high-quality interactions to happen . Most of my peers that were on RG once , seem to have left . This is not a good sign . If they do n't manage to get high-quality interactions happen soon , their name may end up remaining associated with spam . They may have been too aggressive at boosting their user numbers quickly . The overall idea is good , but they need to find a way to get quality contributions , not only quantity . As is , I see them only strong on the quantitative side so far ... Honestly , in my opinion there is one thing really important for the visibility of your research : Make it available . Publish with open access , or a publisher where you can put the preprint on your webpage . Make sure that Google Scholar indexes it , because that is what everybody I know uses for searching literature . You must get Google Scholar to return a PDF link for your article . Make it available . Also put data sets , detailed description , source code , etc. on your web page ; offer collaboration . If you make it easy for others to build upon your work , they are more likely to do so . In particular , you must make it easier to build upon your work , than on alternatives . Making a RG profile does not really help ; effectively it just means your data is spread to one more site . Instead , put a lot of information on your homepage . <URL> I 'm convinced that one of the reasons why he has been very successful is that you can download data and software and tutorials right on his homepage . Compare to his <URL> ( I was even surprised he has one ) - it 's a dead duck , absolutely useless . A Google Scholar Profile may be much more useful , as it will be linked from any article , making it easy for people to reach your other publications . Again , the <URL> : Google Scholar does a much better job at providing an automatic publication list for you . IMHO , Google Scholar is a must , because the profile will make it easier to get updated on your other publications . I visit Scholar profiles quite often ; in particular to see the latest and the most cited work of an author of which I already have discovered a good article .
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
So long as you meet or exceed ( but not by too much ! ) the graduate admission requirements of a department , there 's no reason you should n't be able to study there . There 's no fixed rule that says that you ca n't do a master 's in India then do one in the US as well . ( If there is such a rule , it applies only to the departments or universities that impose them ; there are no universal rules that govern US graduate admissions . ) The best bet is , of course , to contact the schools you 're interest in attending and ask them directly what their policies are .
Many ( most ? ) academic papers include a brief acknowledgment section somewhere ( the location is not standard ) . In this section it is frequent to acknowledge help by the referees . One can equally well acknowledge comments by referees of previous versions of the paper . For the sake of clarity it seems best to mention that one is thanking the referee of the previous version . E.g. if I were refereeing the new version , reading We are grateful for the help provided by the referee . is ambiguous : does this refer to a previous referee , or am I being thanked in advance for my help ? ( That 's not so good . ) Clearer would be something like This version of the paper takes into account helpful comments provided by the ( or " a " ) referee of a previous version . If the paper gets accepted in the second journal , one could change to something like We are grateful for helpful comments from multiple referees on several versions of the paper . Is it academically necessary ? I 'm not sure it 's ever strictly necessary to acknowledge an anonymous referee -- it seems to me that a situation in which it 's vitally necessary to acknowledge someone is a situation in which an anonymous acknowledgment would be insufficient . ( Moreover , the way I have always understood it is that referee comments are " being given " to the authors of the paper . ) If you feel that a referee 's contributions merit coauthorship , ( take a deep breath first ; this opens a can of worms ) you should discuss that with the editor . However , if you got direct intellectual help from the referee and not just helpful remarks -- i.e. , if the referee contributed some part of the intellectual content of the paper -- then I would certainly recommend documenting that rather than assuming the credit for yourself .
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
I 'm surprised to hear you say that " most positions for assistant professor require you to show some teaching experience , i.e. , at least co-teaching some courses . " If you are applying to positions in the U.S. where research will be your primary duty , your prior tutorial and guest lecture experience should be sufficient to get you past whatever minimum you need , especially if you have evaluations to back this up . Of the five colleagues of mine who received tenure-track offers at Reasearch I universities , only one of them had co-taught a class , and the others had one semester of TA experience which was , primarily , grading . That said , there are other ideas for getting teaching experience : Creating your own course or seminar to teach in the summer or during a January term . If you pitch it as a non-credit course , it might be easier to convince your department to let you teach it . Look for adjunct work at a local community college . You 'll probably be limited to introductory courses , but this gets you experience . You may need the buy-in from your faculty boss at your current school . Talking to individual professors about helping with their course -- I find it hard to believe that everyone has all the help they might like already , and you may have more luck getting your foot into a classroom without trying to be officially assigned to it .
No , it 's not OK to cite URLs because firstly , you are citing ONLY the URL ! The URL could change at any given time without notice . Also , you are assuming that everyone is reading your paper electronically and has access to the internet . You NEED to give the name of the paper , the author ( s ) , the Journal it was published in and the year it was published .
If this section of the thesis contains only the translated passage , then it is silly to use one of the quotation notifiers . As I said in my comment , preface the whole section with a notice about the origin of the passage . Then , present the passage unaltered ( except for the translation ) . The contents of that notice will depend on which of the following categories the original passage falls into : Public domain The original passage is in the public domain ( for example if it was written by a government employee in the course of their normal duties or if the author released into the public domain or if the passage is old enough that any possible copyright has expired ) - then say something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without any further alterations from ( original source ) . This passage is in the public domain ( rationale if possible ) . Fair Use Since a thesis is a document created in the course of obtaining an education , you can claim fair use for educational purposes . The passage represents less than the fair use maximum set for the original document ( typically around 5 % or less of the original work ) , then you can state something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without permission and without any further alterations from ( original source ) . Since this passage represents a minimal part of the original document , it constitutes fair use . Public License The creator of the document could have released the document under a license that allows reuse for non-profit purposes with appropriate attribution . See <URL> and <URL> . Licenses like these generally allow you to reproduce the work if you include the appropriate statement . Make sure the license allows derivative works ( because that is what your translation is ) . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) under the <URL> . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . Express permission If you have obtained written permission from the copyright holder to reproduce the work in your thesis , then you would state something like the following . You should include the evidence of written permission in your appendix . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) with permission of the copyright holder . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . None of the above Without permission , a license , fair use , or public domain , you are violating copyright by reproducing the passage , even if you translated it ( translations count as derivative works , which are still a no-no ) . Get the appropriate permissions or reduce the length of the passage so that it becomes fair use and see above . US Copyright Note that this answer primarily to <URL> , with which I am most familiar . The copyright laws in other nations , as well as international copyright law , will vary , but many have similar provisions . However , some parts of my answer will be inapplicable in some countries . In these cases , behave as if the material is copyrighted . The concepts of public domain , copyright , and license are fairly similar in most places . Generally , the existence of a license supersedes copyright , with the exception that a license can not supersede the public domain status of a work . Fair use may not exist in all jurisdictions . If you are unsure whether your nation has a fair use or similar exception in its copyright law , act as if it does n't . Better safe than sorry .
In your question you say " fatal flaw " and the answer will strongly depend on the meaning or intent with using these words . A fatal flaw might mean a figure is wrong ; you may have submitted an earlier version of a figure you later revised . A fatal flaw may also mean you discover something that negates your results ; you used the wrong equation or based your conclusions on the wrong data , both in ways that would pose serious risk . A third way to interpret the term is by personally simply disagreeing with what has been published , but my guess is that this is not what you are primarily thinking about and it is of course not grounds for any actions . In the second case , retraction could be the only way forward . You should of course make the journal aware of this as soon as possible and ask for their suggested solution . If you have your paper published online but not yet printed , the journal ( publisher ) might retract it and it will never be printed . If it is printed they might retract it and probably print a note in a following issue to that fact . See examples for why in <URL> In the first case , the journal will likely publish an erratum , publish the correct figure to follow up on the example . Anything that is of a technical nature and can be rectified by providing the correct version will be done so through errata , . In print this will be included also in a subsequent issue . Elsevier , for example , summarizes <URL> and provides the following grounds for retraction : Article withdrawal : Only used for Articles in Press which represent early versions of articles and sometimes contain errors , or may have been accidentally submitted twice . Occasionally , but less frequently , the articles may represent infringements of professional ethical codes , such as multiple submission , bogus claims of authorship , plagiarism , fraudulent use of data or the like . Article retraction : Infringements of professional ethical codes , such as multiple submission , bogus claims of authorship , plagiarism , fraudulent use of data or the like . Occasionally a retraction will be used to correct errors in submission or publication . Article Removal : Legal limitations upon the publisher , copyright holder or author ( s ) . Article Replacement : Identification of false or inaccurate data that , if acted upon , would pose a serious health risk . In essence , if something is officially published with a doi , there is no way to get corrections made in the pdf or in print . The online version must correspond to the printed and so the solution becomes providing a correction later on . Anything that has published will be possible to see . A paper that has been retracted will just be associated with a clear sign that a retraction has been made . The paper might live on through older copies on peoples computers or in their desk drawers . There is an <URL> that provides a perspective on retractions in general and which may be of interest .
The other answers already explain that no , you should n't be doing research all the time , with no time for breaks , relaxation and other interests . All this is quite correct . However , I am a bit unsure whether the stark dichotomy " all research all the time " versus " a few hours in the morning " is really helpful here . Maybe an answer to the following question is more helpful : Is doing a Ph.D. right for you if you plan on doing it as a 9-5 job , 40 hours per week ? And there , I would be a bit more careful . Yes , there are people who can do a Ph.D. like a " normal job " , at their desk at 9am sharp and dropping their pencils at 5pm . It is possible . However , my personal impression is that these people will avoid the typical Ph.D. burnout , but they will likely not be top performers . So my answer to the modified question above is : You will probably do fine with a 40 hour workweek , if you make sure to stay self-motivated . However , you should think deeply about just why you want to do a Ph.D. . . because unless you are uncommonly brilliant , you will likely not be productive enough to stay in academia and compete with people who routinely put in 50-60 hours per week . You may want to think about leaving academe with the Ph.D. and going into industry . Note that I am not saying " 40 hour Ph.D. students " are lazy . However , if you ca n't work up the level of passion and commitment to your topic that makes you want to put in 50-60 hours per week often , then there will likely be someone else , and that someone else will have more publications five or ten years down the road .
I think you will be hard-pressed to find actual statement of purpose on the Internet . The one submitted to the departments are destroyed after the application process because of obvious privacy issues . Generally the applicants do not publish their own statements for several reasons . Your best bet is to ask some people you know that might have written one and can send it to you . Another option is to have a professor or a postdoc help you with your draft because they have probably been in committees routing through these statements and will have a good idea if you are heading in the right direction . There are many ways to write a good statement , you should be able to write a statement from the general guidelines that you can find in the other answers on this website . After all the statement is meant to test your capacity of developing your ideas and your writing style .
It would seem that you should contact the organizing committee of the conference and get their advice . To me it seems kind of low to write papers that have very similar content but it does happen . If you are questioning it that much I would bring it up with the Organizing Committee and see what they say . You do n't even have to mention names or specifics but just get their general opinion .
Step 1 : Do n't panic I was in a similar situation halfway through my MSc . I was in a panic , sure that my academic career was in ruins . My supervisor calmed me down , reminded that a negative result was still a result , and and told me that a for a master 's degree , it was not strictly required that I make a scientific contribution or have a publication . In the worst case , in my thesis I would present my negative results , explain why this technique did n't work , and suggest what could be done differently by future researchers . ( Once I was relaxed enough to think clearly , I came up with new things to try , and everything worked out grand . ) I suggest you discuss the " worst case scenario " with your supervisor ; you 'll probably find out it 's not as bad as you think . Remember that this is research : positive results are not guaranteed . Step 2 : Think about why this technique is n't working . I 'm sure you 've learned something about why your technique is n't working . That should give you some ideas for what to try next . If you 're out of ideas , sit a friend down and explain everything to them . The friend does n't need to know anything about machine learning ; they 're just a sounding board . The naive questions they ask may give you ideas . Maybe you need a week off to recharge your batteries . Step 3 : Try something new . Take those new ideas you got in step 2 , and apply them . But now that you 're more experienced , think about how you could find out more quickly if the idea is feasible , so you can change tack again if needed .
E-mail a few days in advance . Just showing up puts everyone on the spot , and could end poorly . It could also turn your visitor off .
Since you intend to do it on CS I want to point out that the GRE Subject Test on CS ( the one usually asked ) will not be administrated anymore . According to the ETS website : The last administration of the GRE Computer Science Test will be in April 2013 . The test will be discontinued after the April 2013 administration . Scores will continue to be reportable for five years . ( <URL> ) I wanted to say this in a comment ( since it 's not exactly an answer , but I think it 's an important information to you ) , but I ca n't since I do n't have enough reputation on this website to do it :( Therefore , even though I think you wanted more a opinion from people already in academia , I feel obligated to put some more thought on my answer : I 'm a student , currently undergrad ( will graduate at the end of this year ) and I 'm " kinda on the same boat " ( from a third world country , wan na do a Ph.D. on in US in CS and I 've being somewhat lost regarding what to do ) . Here is a compilation about what I have found so far that may be helpful to you : The notions of PhD and MSc in the US may be somewhat different from what you are used to . Quoting from something I 've read in a university website ( ca n't remember which one right now ) " Masters is about breadth , PhD is about depth " . At least in my country ( and I 'm guessing it may be the same for yours ) , both are pretty depth-oriented . - > Keep in mind that , some MSc are breadth oriented , these may not be the droids you are looking for . Also , the programs vary a lot from place to place ... ( And if you are used to the fact that you have to do a MSc prior to the PhD , this is not true for a lot of PhD programs in the US , you can join then directly if you have a bachelor 's degree ) . Example : At CMU , the masters degree is " breadth-oriented " , meaning that you take a lot of advanced courses in various topics , and the PhD is totally research-oriented ( average 6 years , in contrast to the average 2-year MSc + 4-year PhD in my country ) . But in MIT , as far as I 've understood , you apply for grad school , if you are accept and you do n't have a MSc , you are put on a MSc program , if you already do , you are put on the PhD program ( so , seems to be a lot research oriented on both programs ) . - > Make sure you read thoroughly how the programs in the universities you intend to apply are , cause there 's no " standard " . About the " money " part of your question , as far as I 've seen , it goes something like this : MSc : You have to pay for tuition , you may get a paid TA-ship ( Teaching Assitant paid position ) , you may get an RA-ship ( Research Assistant paid position ) , but nothing is guaranteed . PhD : Top universities usually pay you monthly and if the professor that is orientating your research does n't have funding , you need to get an RA or TA job . On other universities , you may need to narrow your options to professors that have funding . - > Keep in mind that , PhD is a better option money-wise , but harder to get in . As pointed on the comments , research capability is a must ( for the " depth " programs at least ) and matters even more than grades . Quoting from a CMU professor on the " Grad School Talk " available at their website : It does not help you , in my opinion , to be closer to 4.0 [ GPA ] as opposed to 3.5 . It 's a much better idea to spend your time on research than on optimizing your GPA . - Keep in mind that proving your research capability matters a lot . But another important quote from this same pdf regarding grades is : Your grades may be somewhat low -- under 3.0 -- because you were having a good time in college and you may therefore be having trouble getting into a Ph.D. program . In this case , you may want to do an MS and use the time to boost your grades and reapply after the MS. Another important thing to note : The things that each program prioritize when looking at your application seem to vary a lot , even among programs at the same university/department . - > Try to figure out what the programs you are aplying prioritize . ( eg : by reading their websites well ) . About TOEFL : It matters a lot , but as far as I understand , it matters in a sense that it prevents you from getting in a program if you do n't have the minimum score needed . * Each university asks for a different TOEFL score . * The top universities ( regarding CS programs ) usually ask for 100 on the IBT ( internet based test , out of 120 ) , an exception being Stanford , that asks for 110 . Regarding IELTS : All universities seem to accept TOEFL , a lot of them seem to accept IELTS , but you need only one of them , so I suggest you go for the TOELF ( for US universities ) . As a plan of action , I suggest this one ( which is kinda what I 'm doing myself ) . Boost your ability to prove " research capability " : It 's VERY important that you have some prior research experience . Have you ever done research as an undergrad ? Do you have professors that can write a recommendation letter for you ? If you do n't , you are ( probably ) gon na need to pursuit this
There is no general reason why this should not be possible/allowed . You will have to check the regulations of your department/university for PhD students : They may require you to seek approval of your advisor prior to submission of papers . Potentially a journal could have a similar rule in place , but I have never encountered this . That said , I do not believe this to be advisable : If your relationship with your PhD advisor is so bad that do you not feel you can ask them about your intention to submit this paper , you should probably seek a new advisor . If you are so close to graduating that your prefer sitting it out , then rocking the boat is probably a bad idea .
Actually , admissions to master 's degree programs are quite different than PhD admissions . Doctoral programs are research programs , and therefore promise as a researcher is perhaps the most important criterion of all to satisfy . However , at the master 's level , this may or may not be the case -- many master 's programs feature no research ( purely coursework ) , or only a small amount of research ( for instance , a one-semester research project , or a lab course , or something similar ) . In such cases , research is not emphasized nearly as much , and undergraduate track record takes on greater significance . Similarly , " terminal master 's " programs -- ones that represent " end degrees " in their own right -- will likely have less of a research background focus than degrees that are intended to prepare a student for doctoral studies . The other issue is the style of admissions : for " US-style " admissions , research will likely be more important than it is in " European-style " admissions , where research plays essentially no role at all in admissions to master 's programs ( although research is a prerequisite for PhD studies ! ) .
end question
start question
Do graduate schools have more courses & less of a student-teacher ratio than undergraduate ?
I will limit my answer to American universities . Do you mean more courses per semester , or more distinct courses that are listed in the course catalog and offered with some regularity ? If you mean the former : in any given semester , most departments offer many more undergraduate courses than graduate courses . This must be the case for the reason you suggest : the number of students taking undergraduate courses in that department is usually far in excess of the number of students taking graduate courses in that department . But most departments offer largely the same undergraduate courses every year ( or sometimes , on a two-year cycle ) . Many undergraduate courses at a large university have multiple sections running concurrently . The most popular courses -- e.g. freshman level courses for non-majors -- are in some departments run in ten , twenty or more sections each semester . If you mean the latter : yes , many -- perhaps most ? -- departments with large graduate programs offer a larger number of distinct graduate courses over the years than undergraduate courses . Each course is populated by a smaller number of graduate students , but graduate students stick around for at least as long as undergraduates and , unlike undergraduate students -- recall that I am talking about American universities -- take the vast majority or the entirety of their courses in a single department . Sometimes graduate students repeat courses or stop taking courses at a certain point , but in many PhD programs -- including the one at my university -- graduate students are required to take a minimum ( positive ! ) number of courses every semester , some of which are unrepeatable . In fact , most departments devote much more thought to which graduate courses they are going to offer in the next year or two years , both in order to make sure to offer enough courses for their students to take , and conversely to ensure that enough of their current students will want to take any given proposed course in order for that course " to make " , i.e. , to meet minimum enrollment requirements and be run .
I do n't think it should be a problem , provided that you are taking some challenging Math/CS classes among your 4 classes . If it looks like you 're trying to skirt by with the bare minimum difficulty of classes , then taking a couple fewer classes could reinforce that negative narrative . But as long as it looks like you 're taking a challenging course load and doing well , I do n't know that people will even notice the 4 vs. 5 issue ( since there are schools where 4 courses is a normal load ) .
Of course . Remember that in many countries , institutions get a lot of money based on solely being . As an example , in the Czech Republic , the Czech Academy of Sciences receives a lot of budget money for its operation , and some of the money is of course used " for research " . Just as an example , until recently , almost all employment expenses ( salaries , offices , building maintainance , etc. ) was covered exclusively by budget money . Similar model exists in other countries , for instance in France with CNRS , but the difference is that most CNRS people are associated to particular universities , just without teaching duties . It works well because you moreorless know what you get . Financial stability helps in establishing long-lasting projects etc. . Of couse , some level of control is necessary so that good people get the money . In the Czech system , this is based on ( AFAIK 5-year ) audits which evaluate each person separately , and then whole departments , working groups and institutions .
Do graduate schools pay attention to joining Phi Kappa Phi or other honor societies ? As I understand it , eligibility for membership in Phi Kappa Phi is entirely determined by grades and class rank . If so , it wo n't help with grad school applications , since the admissions committee already has access to far more information about grades than they would learn from knowing the applicant is a member . Some fields may have honor societies for which membership conveys more information , but I do not think there is any widely known , field-independent example in the U.S. . In my experience on graduate admissions committees in mathematics , I 've never heard anyone discuss honor societies at all . I joined an honor society as an undergraduate , not because I saw personal benefits to it but because my parents would have been disappointed if I had declined membership . The only consequence for me has been that they occasionally send me a newsletter , but I 'm told some people do find membership to be useful or meaningful .
Edited heavily based on further information provided by OP If you are going into industry , or pursuing a Master 's , it may hurt you in the short term A Master 's degree is mostly course work . It 's too short for you to create a body of work that stands on its own . The quality of the courses largely determines , consequently , the quality of the Master 's . Prospective employers may use an institution 's reputation as a heuristic/proxy for the quality teaching . Attending a less prestigious institution will make it more difficult to get interviews . Not being able to attend the bigger names also means you miss out on their alumni networks . Create a compensatory professional network that overcomes these limitations . Most Master 's in CS programs have a semester-long project . Make an impressive project and shop it around . This is a good way to build rapport with potential employers .
Ask one of your professors or the administration about what the best course of action is . Most likely , you should publish as affiliated to the university as the work was conducted while you were at university . In any case , you have nothing to lose by doing so .
The easiest way to tell if fall grades will be taken into account is to look at the application instructions . If you see instructions asking you to provide your mid-year grades , then that 's a pretty clear indication that they will be taken into account during the admissions process . If you are not asked to submit it , then follow that guideline . If it 's optional for whatever reason , I would assume that you should plan as if it were a mandatory submission .
Will the non-degree option help my chances at being accepted to university A 's MS program ? No . Will the non-degree option hurt my chances at being accepted to university B 's PhD program ? No . Will they need to know about the non-degree if I 'm eventually accepted to the degree option ? Do well in the course and then you 'll be proud to share the transcript with them .
We can make the same conversation for BSc or MSc degrees . There are probably many unemployed people with BSc degrees , as well . We can not suggest that people should not go for higher education , because there are actually fewer jobs than university graduates . Your question seems to neglect an important , yet simple truth . That sometimes , certain people want to go for a higher degree , regardless of their job outcome . Education ( PHD included ) is more than filling resumes or getting a better job but a fulfillment in itself . In this sense , it is the same as learning to play the guitar . Does the world need a new guitar player ? No it does not . But you do not learn the guitar to benefit society . You learn the guitar to benefit your soul . If the few lucky PHD holders manage to get the job they wanted that is fine . If they did not , at least they tried . Life is not linear and you can not predict by your actions on what job you will land , even if you do everything perfectly . But at least , you must be provided with a chance to try . In that sense , it is better than there are actually more PHDs available than the available jobs for PHD holders . More people have access to an even higher education and that is ( as aeismail said ) a benefit in itself . So to directly answer your question : Do we need more PHDs ? No , we do n't . Would the world be a better place if you or I get a PHD ? No , it wo n't . Would we get the job we want with a PHD ? Probably not . But that does not mean that I must not have the right to do a PHD and try my chances .
The primary reasons for having a comprehensive or qualifying examination are as a measure of quality control , and as a means of " population control . " The first ensures that students meet minimal criteria for promotion to PhD candidacy . This allows , in part , PhD programs to take a few candidates who they feel could be successful , but are not 100 % confident thereof . The second is used if departments admit more incoming students than they have funding to support as PhD candidates . Then the exam is used to " cull the herd , " and keep the candidates the faculty wants to continue to fund . My field used to be the kind of program where everybody had to do a qualifying examination . But , in recent years , this trend has started to swing away from comprehensive exams to research prospectuses . There is no stigma associated with either approach , though ; both are considered acceptable . Practically , departments choose not to have a comprehensive exam for a variety of reasons : They may feel that they need neither quality nor population control . They may not want to spend the time required to prepare , administer , and grade such exams ( particularly if there are large numbers of students as well as time-intensive components , such as oral sessions ) . They may feel other means of assessing performance are superior ( for instance , a research dossier and oral proposal ) .
The top universities often have a lot of reasonably obscure funding options . For example with the University of Cambridge - if you go through the steps at <URL> they list all their funding options , you 'll see for Physics there are fully-funded scholarships such as these that might be of interest to you : Leslie Wilson Research Scholarship ( # 17,427 per year ) Winton Scholarship ( s ) in the Physics of Sustainability Thalmann Bequest ( covers EU fees only ) Schiff Fund ( upto # 20,000 per year ) Gulbenkian Studentship ( specifically for non-UK nationals ) <URL> The equivalent website for the University of Oxford is <URL> and it reckons 35 Scholarships were found for a new student from Belgium studying Theoretical Physics ( DPhil ) so I 'm not going to list them all here !!! Best of luck !
Disclaimer : the following is my practical experience on research . I have no idea about the opinions of admissions committees and the like , but it probably depends greatly on the country and the relative quality of master 's and undergrad education . I am a theoretical physicist by formation ( 5 years degree ) . Then I did my master 's thesis ( I had taken enough courses ) in Bioinformatics , and I am doing a PhD in Biophysics . When I start a new project ( or tackle the next sub-project ) , there are a bunch of things about Biology and Chemistry that I do n't know , but most of them are actually quite easy . I am sometimes lacking " the bigger picture " , being able to my questions into a broader meaning , but that is not so important . For example , my master 's project was to improve the number of identified peptides in an experiment using computational techniques , and that is a very clear goal . What to do with this improved results ? Obviously , we can improve the things we already do . But , are there biological questions it can help answer ? I am not sure , but there are experts on that . For the middle picture range , I rely on my advisors . They are also physicists , but they have learned along the way pretty much what they need . And after just a few months , I was surprised of how much I was able to help the new members of the lab . Actually , I believe taking another undergrad degree would not help so much . Of course , I would be faster at the beginning , because I would know what things like " the $ C _ \ alpha $ residuals " mean , but the actual meat of the project , where we spend months , is probably not covered ( or not covered in enough detail ) in most undergrad degrees . And the main reason is that these details are known only to those who have actually worked hands on with it . Let me give you an example : in Physics we talk about spectra all the time , and all the information you can extract from it , with perhaps , the only limitation is the noise of your instrument . The truth is , unless you have a VERY expensive camera , you are going to find very funny stuff , like two spectra taken right after the other , with exactly the same experimental set up , will not have , on camera , the same intensity ; and even the profile of the line . To compensate for this you need to get clever , and it very much depends on the details , so it is very difficult to teach unless your lecturer is an expert in spectra analysis and can tell you how they do it . And still , most people can just rely on the spectra pre-processed by the experts , so they do n't need to know this . Unless , of course , you want to work with raw spectra yourself ( been there ) . Lastly , a master 's or a PhD has some courses . They are usually quite specialised , targeted for your level and background , and can bring you up to speed in the things you need to know about your field quite nicely . And to add some peace of mind , my former lab hired a postdoc coming from computer vision . His biological knowledge had quite big holes , but nevertheless , in a couple of weeks he was already doing amazing stuff with very good ideas . Bottomline , go for the advanced studies . You can always take Biology or Economy on the side ( for example Open University or unofficially at Coursera ) .
It 's probably discipline-specific , but I hand mine out all the time . That being said , I talk to lots of vendors of computer hardware that I want to get back in touch with , so exchanging cards is helpful . As a grad student , it might be worth having some small cards from someone like <URL> that have your name , email , affiliation , and a link to your website . It might be easier to hand those out than to carry 20 preprints of your article when you 're giving a talk . All that being said , it 'd be pretty unusual to push your cards on people you meet at conferences . If someone asks for your information , or a copy of your publication , you might offer the card , but I would n't volunteer it unless you 've been asked for something . It 's just not part of the culture in most of the fields I have experience with for students to do so .
If you 're asking about graduate school in the US , probably the single most significant thing you can do is to take the <URL> ( not the math section of the general test ! ) , and score well on it . This test covers a broad spectrum of material that is taught in a typical undergraduate math curriculum , and so if you get a good score , it strongly supports your claim that you have the level of mathematics knowledge required to enter grad school . Without that key piece of evidence ( i.e. a good GRE subject score ) , graduate admissions committees are likely to look at your statement that you have the knowledge to take graduate courses , contrast it with your lack of an undergraduate degree , and conclude that you 're full of hot air , so to speak . Now , of course there is more that has to be done to actually get yourself admitted . In my own field of theoretical physics , even a 990 ( the top score ) on the GRE is n't enough to get you into a good grad school by itself . I would imagine the same is true for the top schools in math , though perhaps at a less competitive school , it might be . But I think to be safe , you should assume that you 'll have to present some other sort of evidence of accomplishment that could be viewed as equivalent to an undergraduate transcript . You 'll also need recommendation letters and various sorts of essays and forms . But a lot of that can vary from school to school , and is more likely to be negotiable if you talk to someone in the department . The GRE subject score is the one thing you really need to get your foot in the door , so to speak .
If you are in the EU , most graduate schools typically prefer you to have a Masters degree before applying for a PhD , it is apparently not so necessary in the US . The Masters is however , important for several reasons : You can see if chemical research is what you really want to do , as most undergraduate programmes have no or very limited opportunity for original research , largely being focussed on equipping you with a set of techniques and skills to enable you to carry out chemical research . I have many friends who were ' all chemistry 'd out ' after their Masters , and left the field completely ( Of my cohort over half are no longer in a chemical field ) . You can try out a field of chemistry in a research environment , either one you have come across during your undergraduate e.g. spectroscopy of small molecules , and enjoyed , or one that only really gets introduced at undergraduate level , if at all e.g. supramolecular chemistry . You can try out a supervisor you are considering working under for a PhD , without the commitment of 3 + years on the line . It demonstrates to a potential supervisor that you are capable of conducting original research to a good standard . Agreeing to take someone on with no prior demonstration of research aptitude is not something many supervisors would do ! PhD programmes can also vary a lot : Some are longer and have a first ' introduction ' year , where they train you in the specific skills you need to complete the programme . This first , often taught year is very similar to the 4th year of an integrated Bachelor + Masters course . Some are just straight research from the start , with an evaluation at the end of the first year , the failure of which prevents you from continuing , and you leave with an M.res or similar . I could go on ... To more directly answer your question , the best way to find out about the differences in day-to-day activity between the different areas of chemistry at PhD level is to try and talk to some current PhD students . If you have completely free reign and no particular interest , I would suggest you aim to talk to students in most of these categories : Physical lots of maths , often boils down to applied physics , in my opinion the least ' chemical ' of these options . Can also overlap with analytical in areas like atmospheric chemistry or kinetics . Analytical ( physical chemistry typically focussing on spectroscopic exploration ) often overlaps with computational ( modelling the behaviour of chemicals on surfaces e.g. catalysts , or the behaviour of proteins and their binding sites , or small molecules as entirely simulated objects , to name a few ) Chemical informatics e.g. developing tools to help statistically analyse chemical behaviours for drug discovery , or to communicate chemical information electronically . Can be a good way into programming with a chemical slant . Synthetic chemistry this comes in many flavours , organic and inorganic , but most are similar on a day to day basis ( see below for exceptions ) Medicinal/natural product synthesis synthetic chemistry but typically much longer hours , often the most internally competitive / ' macho ' culture in the department Materials chemistry this can cover a very wide range of specialisations and include engineering and physics too ; very dependent on the particular programme . Nanoscience is sometimes lumped in here , sometimes in organic and sometimes in inorganic ! In broad strokes , more physical PhDs can require greater discipline , because you do n't have the obvious ' put this reaction on/analyse this intermediate ' type workflow and can spend weeks waiting for computations to run/repairs to a piece of analytical equipment etc. . It is easier to remain emotionally uninvested in the outcome of an experiment , because you are typically trying to find an answer to a question , rather than produce a specific result . By contrast , synthetic PhDs can have moments of soul-crushing defeat when reactions repeatedly fail , frequently requiring a lot of mental fortitude to keep trying things to get a reaction to work/work out a way round it . To summarise , doing a Masters first is a good idea , to ensure you want to go the PhD route and improve the strength of a PhD application . For picking a PhD ( and to a lesser extent , a Masters ) you really need to be able to narrow down your options by some/all of topic , supervisor , location and type of programme . addition from comments : <URL> is a link to information provided by ACS for students looking to find out about graduate courses , should be a good starting point .
Simple ideas : Seminar where a professor gives a talk on his/her current research . Provide beer . Invite an alum from one of the companies you 're talking about to give a talk on something new from the company . Provide beer . Simple cook-out , which includes beer ( even better if this is a recurring event , monthly , once a semester , etc. ) . More involved ideas : Mini-poster conference , where a quorum of students have posters about their current research . Alum can act as judges , if you want to award prizes . Provide beer . Invite a famous alumus to give a talk . This always involves more work than you 're expecting , but can have big pay-offs . Might necessitate actual cocktails ( and possibly pay for the speaker , but if you play it right you should find an alumnus willing to do it for free ) . Field-trip to a local engineering firm that may have something interesting to look at ( or a tour ) . Drinks at a local bar afterward .
Speaking as someone in field not too far from yours : sure , it would help if you had done all of the stuff you 've listed and written a paper about it . But having a bunch of conference presentations under your belt ( oral and posters ) is still pretty impressive ; and there are many applicants to Ph.D. programs without any research experience at all . The fact that you 've done research , and that your advisor thought it was worth presenting at multiple conferences , is a pretty big item in your favor . Oh , and it should go without saying that this professor should be one of your recommenders ( absent any major falling-out or other complicating circumstances . )
ETS , which develops and administers the GREs , <URL> of all of the institutions that are officially licensed to receive GREs . If you look through , you will notice that almost all of these institutions are in the United States . Now , there are a bunch of other universities around the world that at least are willing to receive a GRE . As noted in the other answers , however , the fact that an institution is willing to receive a GRE does not mean that it is required or even particularly helpful . It is primarily a US test , and even within the US it is not used by many departments and given little weight ( unless one does horribly ) in many others .
Short answer : In practice , letters are more important . Long answer : Doing great research is great , but if I 'm on an admissions committee , how do I know your research is great ? I can read your paper , but unless it 's close to my area of expertise , it can be hard or at least time-consuming to determine its quality . I probably have too many applicants who wrote a paper to read everyone 's paper in detail ( depending on how common undergraduate authorship is in my field ) . And even if I 'm convinced the paper is great , how do I know what your contribution to the paper was ? ( In the fields I 'm familiar with , it 's very rare for undergrads to author solo papers . ) On the other hand , if I have a letter from a faculty member whose word I trust saying that this paper is great and you did most of the hard work ( or even that he/she is very impressed with your potential ) , that 's much more useful .
I think there are two parts to answering this question . First , you should make sure that the teacher is incompetent and not merely unlikable . Second , if the teacher is incompetent , there are a number of options available to avoid studying with them . With respect to the first point , it is important to note that a teacher can be unlikable , and perhaps even appear ignorant ( to students ) , while still being great at his or her job : making sure you learn things . For example , group work and peer instruction are known to be effective teaching strategies . At the same time , they are also quite unpopular with students , and some students even take the view that the instructor is not doing their job when these strategies are applied ( even though the outcome may be very good ) . Professionalism and teaching style are very personal traits , and I 've not seen any evidence that they have strong impact on student learning outcomes . It sounds like maybe your personal dislike of the instructor is clouding your judgement about whether they could be an effective teacher . A teacher has only one job : making sure you learn things . If they can do that job effectively , then it should n't matter whether you like them or not . Talk to students who have finished the course , and find out what they 've learned . Often its only after such a class is complete that students realize they 've learned a lot . If you know you 'll get a lot out of the course , then you should probably take it even if you do n't like the teacher . On the second point , if the teacher really is incompetent , and former students are in strong agreement on this point ( and they really do n't seem to have learned anything about the subject ) , then you do have some other options : Many schools will let you take online courses from other universities for credit . For a chemistry course with a lab , this may not work out , but otherwise this might be your best bet . You can shop around , find an instructor that you like , and still get credit for the course . If the instructor is genuinely incompetent , you could speak with the school administration , and make a formal request for a different instructor . Often your request will be ignored , but I have seen this result in a new instructor being assigned once . Again , it is important that you make sure this is an instance of incompetence and not unlikeability . This is a serious step , and could have implications for the instructor 's job ( especially if they lack tenure ) . You might be able to wait it out , and take the class with someone else . At the university undergraduate level , this can be the easiest solution , provided that the course is not a major prerequisite in your program . At the high school and grad school level , there may not be an alternative instructor in that subject area , so this may be infeasible . Attend the class , but plan to use external resources to study . Consider forming a study group at the start of the semester , and meeting several times a week to talk about class material . Use online courses like those offered by MIT 's Open Courseware , or any of the MOOC companies , to supplement the lecture material , and shop around online to find the best textbook at your level for this topic . You can make sure that you 've learned the material well , even if your instructor is unable to help you learn it .
end question
start question
Is it possible to have a PhD advisor from another university ?
Extrapolating from the very few cases that I 've seen , I think you 'll need an official adviser at the school where you 're actually enrolled . If it 's OK with that adviser , then you could also have a " real " adviser elsewhere , on an unofficial basis . Your school may have some paperwork to be completed if your real adviser is to serve as a member of your official thesis committee .
This might vary from field to field , and based upon how established and well-regarded you are within your own field , but personally I would not feel that it is mandatory to get a letter from your prior advisor , if you have other letter-writers who you think will be more suitable ( know your work better , are better-regarded in the community , will write you a stronger recommendation ) . At this stage in your career most faculty are now established enough that they are your own brand and can stand on their own , separate from their advisor . In particular , 5-6 years in a tenure-track position is probably far enough along in your career that I do n't think the hiring committee will look askance if you do n't have a letter from your prior advisor . In any case , if the hiring committee wants an assessment from your former PhD advisor , they will ask your former PhD advisor . For jobs at this level , it 's not unusual for them to ask others for their opinion of you ( beyond the letters that you provide ) , if you are a serious candidate . That said , usually your former PhD advisor is someone who knows you well , wants you to succeed , appreciates your work and your interests , and is well-informed about your research -- so they are often a good choice of a letter-writer , all else being equal .
The kind of math you 'd get exposed to with your proposed BSc would be very much of the applied variety ( calc , differential equations , that sort of thing ) but it 's not going to drive you to any of the backing theory ( abstract algebra , real/complex analysis , topology , etc. ) . It 's unlikely a Master 's in Aerospace Engineering is going to do you any favors in this regard either . Hence , by the time you want to do your PhD in Math , you will be woefully underprepared for it . Hence , if you really want a PhD in Math , it 's a very , very good idea to do a BA/BS in Math , so I would highly , highly recommend that you dual-major . The good news is that there will be some overlap in classes when you do this , so it 's by no means an insurmountable goal . Plus , this will give you a strong sense as to whether to pursue the PhD in Math . Another option is that , if you just do a BSc in Aerospace Engineering , when you go for your Master 's you might consider switching to Math at that time . From a practical standpoint , I 'm not sure a Master 's in Aerospace Engineering would open many more doors than the BSc would , but a Master 's in Math would definitely broaden your knowledge and give you more general appeal . It 's possible to proceed with a PhD from there .
Definitely talk to your advisor first . While I doubt that continuity of funding will be an issue , there could be other ones : your advisor should be allowed to advise students in BME ( sometimes ' joint appointments do n't by default come with the ability to be the advisor for a student ) . You may need to get a co-advisor in BME ( or not : it depends on the rules ) you may need to formally reapply . There might even be the possibility that you are rejected ( but I 'd be very surprised if that happened ) . It 's usually never the case that you can just switch between departments . This also means that there will be deadlines , paperwork and possibly even some fees . since you 're in the first year in grad school , committee composition is not an issue , but for someone later on in the program that could be a problem as well . Your advisor will/should know the answer to some of these questions and the BME administrative staff ( graduate advisor or equivalent ) will know the rest .
I do n't have experience with philosophy , but I ca n't imagine this part of admissions is too different . It 's pretty common for students to have one or more letters from faculty they have n't had classes with in the past year , so no that 's not a problem . ( In fact , sometimes it happens with all the letters , if the student takes time off -- e.g. , see : <URL> ) What 's important is that each letter writer should have something meaningful to say about your preparation , talent , attitude , performance , work ethic , etc. . Also , depending on the circumstances , it may be very natural for you to continue to have plenty of interactions with this professor over the next year or so whether or not you take another class with her . That said , you should get letters from some people you 've taken in your 4th-5th year ( particularly master 's classes if possible ) . The main reason for this is you want recommendations which can discuss your performance in more advanced classes , which is presumably what you 'll be taking .
It certainly depends on the department you 're in . Some departments have small PhD programs and largely focused on undergraduate and master 's programs . In that case , you may get away with just not having PhD students . On the other hand , at most Research-1 universities , math departments have 1.5-2 PhD students per tenure-track faculty . Of course , faculty do not evenly assume mentorship roles for them , but there is an expectation that one does , in fact , supervise some . It is not uncommon to have an expectation that , for example , one has to have graduated one PhD student before promotion to full professor . In general , the way to see this most productively is probably to remember that a university is an institution of higher education . If a department has a PhD program as an important component , then it is a reasonably expectation that every tenure-track faculty participates in it by ( i ) teaching graduate courses , and ( ii ) advising PhD students . If you actively try to get out of one or both of these parts of your job , you 're not doing your job . The situation is no different than teaching and service : it 's part of your job , and whether you do or do not like this part makes no difference in the expectations that are put on you .
One word . Yes ! It is absolutely normal . I am a doctoral student in , what is arguably a top 5 CS department/top 5 HCI program in the USA . Although , I had a handful of publications before I started my doctoral program , my first " real " paper ( in a top flight venue ) with my adviser was published more than 2.5 years after I joined the program . I had published a couple of workshop papers/posters in those years with other graduate students but the acceptance rates for them , even in highly ranked conferences , are pretty high so that does n't really account for much . These had nothing to do with my dissertation but were just some side projects that we did . Most of my colleagues and friends/acquaintances in similar programs in similar universities were in similar situations in that time . It takes time to read literature , come up with a compelling and important research question , design a study/prototype/system / algorithm , write the paper and most importantly , get it published . Do not be disheartened . The quality of papers matter , not the quantity when it comes to being evaluated by search committees .
In my experience , most undergraduates , even excellent ones with strong research potential , do not publish . The reason is simple : undergraduates usually have to spend a lot of time on classes and do n't have much time available for research , even if they 're very good at it . The likelihood of both producing a significant publishable result and seeing it in print before applying to grad school is simply not very large . Even if you do get a publication , it 's not obvious whether it 's due to your research talent or due to your supervisor placing you on exactly the right project . That said , getting involved in research as an undergraduate is the best thing that you can do if you have interest in graduate school . Not only will it put you in a position where a professor can give you a good recommendation for your research work , but it will also help you figure out if you actually want to subject yourself to the grueling realities of a Ph.D. program . And who knows , you might even get some publications !
Note that both professors have their European degree from Bocconi . Double degrees appear to be a Bocconi ( and some other universities ' ) special . For the MSc level , it 's explicitly mentioned on their web page as a highly selective option ; see , e.g. , <URL> . But you also find an economics PhD program <URL> participating in a partner university 's course work and studies , the AEEP . It is not explicitly mentioned that you 'll get two PhDs - and you probably wo n't on a general basis - , but if you get close to a professor abroad during your year , and start your research with them , it does n't seem a stretch to think you can negotiate two . Note that one of the current partner institutions is Northwestern , as in one of the examples you linked , while the other ( Berkeley ) is not mentioned . This might be due to changes in times , or simply to the professors linked not having been part of this particular program . But as Bocconi is apparently very active in these international cooperations , it seems highly likely that both were part of one of them . The bottom line is that , in my opinion , it will be very unlikely that you 'll find a U.S. institution at which you can get a second PhD in only one year if you have n't been part of such a program , where the second degree is a natural and fairly minor extension of your work predominantly in Europe .
No , you should not put the university logo in the letter . You are not representing your university in an official capacity in a statement of purpose , and therefore using the university 's logo would be inappropriate , as you would be suggesting an official imprimatur for your work .
I feel this is a difficult situation , with a number of variables that should influence your decision : Is your advisor completely gone ( e.g. , in complete retirement , gone to industry , or even dead ) , or has he just left for a different academic post ? If he is completely gone , you may need to find somebody to supervise you in your day-to-day research . If he has just moved on to a different university , it is possible that you want somebody to " formally " be your PhD advisor , but practically keep on working remotely with your old advisor . Whether you even want to keep on working remotely with your old advisor depends on how advanced you are and how well you worked with her/him beforehand . Are you advanced enough that you can finish your thesis more or less on your own ? That is , do you need an advisor or an examiner for your thesis ? If it is the latter , then pretty much anybody who is sufficiently well-versed in your area could act as your advisor for the finishing sprint . If you actually feel like you still need a lot of input to get your thesis ready , it will be harder to find somebody who can and is willing to take you on midway . If you are advanced and your advisor is only moving to a different university , it should be reasonably easy for you to find a " local proxy " without having to adapt your research plan too much . How set-in-stone is your research plan ? Or , in other words , how ready are you to adapt to the research agenda of another advisor ? Generally , if you really do n't want to change your research , but you also feel like you still need a lot of input , it is likely that you will have problems finding a suitable new advisor . If you are happy to change research topics , finding an advisor should not be more difficult than the first time . How does your funding work ? That is , do you " only " need a new advisor , or do you need a new advisor and a new funding source ( e.g. , project , grant ) ? Clearly , the former case will make it much easier to find a new advisor . In the second case , you will need to be willing to change your research plan somewhat , as few professors will be ready to dish out grant money if the student is not actually working on their projects . Are you a good student ? Ok , this may be somewhat controversial , but clearly if you have been an overperformer so far , it will be substantially easier to convince another professor to take you on . Similarly , if you already have great publications in your research , it will be much easier to convince a professor that you want to continue working on this concrete research idea and not change to whatever other project your new advisor has in mind . Are you willing to change universities ? If so , maybe coming along with your old advisor is an option ? So how does this help you ? In a first step , you need to reflect on all of these points to figure out what kind of advisor you actually want/need . Then go over the list of potential faculty that formally could serve as advisor . Think about how your collaboration with each of those potential advisors could work , and what you would need from them . Get in touch with the ones that seem most suitable ( as you already study there I am assuming you can just send them a mail , or have your current advisor put you in contact ) , and discuss the issue with them . Select the one that ( a ) is willing to take you on , and ( b ) you feel is most consistent with your answers to the questions above .
Yes , it is possible to cross over between different fields following the PhD-level studies . However , in general , this tends to be more applicable to " interdisciplinary " fields that can fall into multiple disciplines . For instance , the engineering department I studied at hired people with PhD 's in applied mathematics and physics , because their research fields -- in fluid mechanics and interfacial science , respectively -- meshed well with the research interests of the department . To give a counterexample , however , it will be much harder to make the case for a high-energy physics person to move into another discipline , just because it is so strongly identified with physics . Thus , if you have a PhD in a field such as mathematical economics or econometrics , it will be a lot easier to make the lateral shift . However , if you 're in a more " traditional " subfield , that move becomes much more challenging .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
At many ( most ? all ? ) universities , a committee is required to have at least one professor from outside the department ( other than the chair , if the chair holds a joint position ) . Other requirements are to have at least one professor at rank higher or equal to the rank of the chair ( the advisor ) .
Supervisors are employees just like everyone else . They have duties ( to supervise you ) , and they have vacations and business trips . Both vacations and business trips ( conferences , field trips , probably archive work in your line ) will be more common during summer . Specifically for academia , many people will use summer to spend more time working from home while they do n't have to give lectures , but they may designate certain days when they are in the office , specifically to meet with everyone on a single day . That said , I see no reason whatsoever why email contact should decrease during summer , of course except for known vacation or trip periods , where everyone can agree that emails may take a little longer to be answered . Face-to-face contact is also important , but given that many people will spend more time at home , there is a case to be made that you may not meet quite as frequently with your advisor during summer , even after accounting for vacations/trips . Nevertheless , I see no reason why a request for email contact and ( possibly somewhat less frequent ) face-to-face meetings should be unreasonable . It would of course be optimal to work out a schedule before summer , taking vacations etc. into account . " I 'll check in every day with a short email , and I understand if you reply later to email questions . Could we set up at least some face-to-face meetings , perhaps not every week as during the semester , but every other week , except for the week you are at a conference ? " After all , your supervisor will be just as interested in hearing from you and knowing that you do n't spend all of summer at the beach ...
At my institution , most researchers have more than one grant . It is extremely common over a wide range of disciplines , at least in the USA . Often , one is required to include the " level of effort " in each grant proposal ; i.e. , the percentage of one 's time that will be spent on that project . That number is never 100 % ; more often , it may be 10-50 % . In many fields , the " principal investigator " on the grant may do only a small part of the actual research , with the bulk being done by students and post-docs . This part is very field-dependent . In some fields , full professors at top universities are expected to have very many grants simultaneously , or at least some very large grants that involve a lot more than the full time of a single person .
Let me expand a bit on Thomas comment . By its very nature , peer review is a guaranteed item of discussion in all academic discussions . Every author has stories to tell about unfair reviews , reviewers that missed the entire point of the article , reviewers that rejected a paper only to publish something similar themselves , and so on . What is much rarer talked about is that the vast , vast majority of rejected papers are simply not good enough ! Indeed , this surely also includes a large percentage of those papers that the authors are sure were handled unfairly . An important point is the following : My only argument is that authors believe that their paper is a breakthrough paper and it has a very good contribution . Clearly , all ( ethical ) authors believe their paper has merit . Otherwise , one would likely not submit it . It has to be said that the author 's own opinion is not a good indicator of the actual qualities of a paper . Is it possible that reviewers ignore papers ? Maybe because the authors are not known or maybe they did not write the paper well ? Somewhere on this site , I have previously listed reasons why a paper can get rejected , but to be honest I think " the authors are not well-known enough " is very low on this list . The second reason ( " the paper is not well-written " ) is more common , but it should be noted that rejecting a badly-written paper is not unfair . It is the responsibility of the authors to make sure that their paper is graspable . However , again , I suspect the majority of papers are well-understood by the reviewers , and just rejected because the reviewers were of the opinion that the contribution was not substantial enough . So why do papers sometimes get very short , high-level reviews , even if the reviewers read and understood the papers ? One possible explanation is that many reviewers follow the golden rule " spend your time on manuscripts that deserve your attention " . In practice , a reviewer has finite time to invest into reviews . When receiving ( say ) 5 papers for review , two being borderline and three being clear-cut rejects , it is an understandable decision to spend more time scrutinising the papers that still have a chance , and only provide high-level feedback on the ones that the reviewer sees as clearly too weak . Now on to your questions : How can one be sure that their paper is well treated ? The philosophy I try to communicate to my students is to stop worrying about optimizing manuscripts for peer review and start doing the best research they can . I am convinced that the best way to ensure that your papers are treated well is to write good research papers . How to write papers that make the reviewers do not throw the paper away . Make sure that your papers ( 1 ) have a clear contribution , which is evident from the abstract and the introduction , ( 2 ) are written as clearly as you can , ( 3 ) are correct in terms of grammar and spelling ( try to have a native-speaker spell-check your manuscripts ) , and ( 4 ) have a compelling and relevant contribution . If Your paper is technically sound but boring as watching grass grow , you are not entitled to complaining that the reviewers did not read the manuscript carefully .
If she has reviewed for these journals , then she has , regardless of who asked her to do it , and she can certainly put it on her CV ( it 's accurate and she can back it up ) . One caveat would be if she wrote the reviews but they were submitted under her boss 's name ( with the journals ' agreement ) - in that case , it would be important for her to make clear that she was doing the reviews in lieu of her boss , and was n't asked to do them in her own right . In other words , she certainly has the reviewing experience , but was asked because of her boss 's expertise in the field and not her own ( even if she may have that expertise as well ) .
Neuroscience is interdisciplinary ! To give you an idea , the neuroscience faculty at my institution ( University of S. FL. , RU/VH university ) generally have Ph.D. in : Pharmacology Molecular Biology Biophysics Biochemistry None of them are an M.D. so you have to ask where would medicine come in useful ? Ph.D. 's do not generally interact with patients , perform medical procedures or do anything an MD is qualified to do ( with respect to humans ) . Being said , you can have a dual MD/PhD where for example your MD is specialized health science and technology , and your PhD is specialized neuroscience . I think that for neuroscience research involving humans such as drug trials , behavioral neuroscience , etc. this is a preferred route . Some neuroscientists are then experts in computational studies as opposed to wet lab , where a data science background is helpful . Some related publications by our faculty : Hevers W , Hadley SH , Lddens H and Amin J. Ketamine but not PCP selectively modulates cerebellar GABAA receptors containing a6 and d subunits J. Neuroscience . 28 ( 20 ) : 5383-5393 , 2008 . Segers LS , Nuding SC , Ott MM , Dean JB , Bolser DC , O'Connor R , Morris KF , Lindsey BG . Peripheral chemoreceptors tune inspiratory drive via tonic expiratory neuron hubs in the medullary ventral respiratory column network . Journal of Neurophysiology . 113 : 352-368 , 2015 . <URL> At least with respect to reference one , the methods state results were obtained from rats/mice , from reference two they collected data from adult cats . You can see that an MD or medical degree is n't necessarily required for a career in neuroscience . Some career postings I can see give preference to those who know some surgical procedures ( not just for humans ) , but at the entry level I 'm seeing 3yrs postdoc experience on top of the related PhD , to which you do n't have to be embroiled in clinical decision-making and large amounts of blood ( maybe on mice , etc. ) , publication record , etc. . For your intended program , you 'll largely want to refer to your university of choice , mind you curriculum and requirements can largely vary by institution !
I can not make any statement about this journal and this may depend somewhat on the field , but so far I never spent more than a day 's work on any review . The main problem why reviews take so long is not that the review itself actually takes that long , but that reviewers need to find time for the review given their numerous other duties . Therefore it 's entirely possible that a referee reviews a paper within a day -- maybe somewhat more , depending on the field -- if they have time at hand . This needs not have to do anything with the review being sloppy or the paper being bad ; it 's just a question of luck . I know of one example where a paper for Physical Review Letters ( a high-level physics journal ) went from submission to publication in something around ten days . Also , one of my papers once received a positive review within four days . If the journal expects the review process to take eight to ten weeks , then a month sounds entirely plausible . It 's not even outstandingly short .
end question
start question
Literature Review versus Literature Survey . What is the difference ?
Reviewing the literature relevant to a given field is a standard part of doing research , as this serves to put your work into the context of the larger discipline in which you are working . If there is an actual difference between the " literature survey " and the " literature review , " it 's that the latter can serve as a paper in and of itself , and is much more extensive than a literature survey , which is typically a major part of the introduction of a research paper . The literature review as a standalone article could be compared to a " curated " overview of the literature in the field -- who has done what , how do papers relate to one another , and what are the most important present and ( possibly ) future directions of work in such a field . Such papers can also be considerably longer than a traditional research paper , and some reviews might cite as many as a thousand references ! In comparison , the literature survey of a standard research article is usually much shorter ( 1-2 journal pages ) , and will not cite nearly as many papers ( anywhere from 10 to 100 , depending on the topic and the amount of relevant literature available ) .
Literature reviews , often referred to by journals as just " Reviews " can and are their own form of research paper . My very first publication was a review like this , so it 's clearly possible . How viable a paper like that is will probably depend on the conventions of your field . For example , mine generally requires that these " expert reviews " ( in contrast to a meta-analysis or systematic review ) be solicited by the editor , not cold submitted . That involves shopping your manuscript around a little to see if anyone is willing to " invite " it , having a senior person backing you who can prompt a colleague to invite it , or finding a journal who accepts cold submitted reviews .
Your strategy sounds sound to me . You can not read the papers from end to end . You need to weed out they papers you will possibly need in your review with as little effort as possible . Title and abstract should be enough . Once you have done this you should be left with a bunch of papers that are likely to be of use to you . While you have looked through them you must also consider how the material can be organized . There are many ways of doing this , chronological order ( boring ) , thematic order ( are there subfields ? ) , contradictions ( are there compeeting ideas ) etc. . The point is to try to get the information organized . You need some form of organization fo the papers so that you know how you will treat them in your review . Once you have found all papers you think you need you can start assembling the information into your text . It is at this point you can start reading them in more detail . It is still not necessary to read every detail . you need to focus on the background to the different conclusions drawn . The goal of the review should be to provide a new perspective on the field you have chosen so your own familiarity with the field ( papers ) is key . Try to collect as many as you can ; not all will be used .
I agree with the other answers here . In particular , I follow the advice of @jakebeal where he suggests to put the acknowledgments in earlier on so you can account for the space it takes up . I would like to raise an additional consideration for putting acknowledgments in earlier on : when your funding agency requires you to do so . For example , in the US , certain Department of Defense ( DoD ) components ( such as DARPA ) require the authors of any publications ( or manuscripts to be submitted for publication ) stemming from funded research work to include an appropriate " distribution statement " at some location in the paper . In my subfield , authors typically put this statement in the acknowledgment section . You might ask : Why not just add the distribution statement in after the paper is accepted for publication ? Well , manuscripts to be submitted for publication must first be " released " for publication by the DoD , and if the distribution statement is not listed in the paper , then your paper is not approved for " public release . " ( You can get into trouble with the DoD if you try to submit your paper prior to obtaining public release approval ) . Bottom line : Check with your funding agency to see if they have any constraints on the acknowledgment section ( or first-page footnote , etc. ) of your paper , and at what stage of the publication process it is required .
A method which I learned quite recently is the <URL> . I think it is a great method , as it is quick , and it does not require much effort both on your part and your students . You will need to distribute three small pieces of paper ( e.g. Post-it ) to each student , ask them to label Start , Stop , and Continue , respectively , on the top of each paper , and then ask them to list on each paper , according to the label , what they think you should start doing , stop doing , and continue doing . Ask them to submit their papers before they leave .
It has to be a conference with a rebuttal phase , where the authors can answer the main points raised by the reviewers , who in turn will be able to draw more conclusive remarks on the paper itself see also here : <URL>
The facile answer is you do n't stop searching the literature . Even as the review evolves , you should be including new references if they are noteworthy in addressing questions within the field . This process should continue as long as you are working in the field of the problem . Of course , from a practical standpoint , you do need to select a cutoff . There should be a reasonable point in time in which you 've set the outline of the review , and decided on the main topics and questions to be discussed . At that point , it would be fair to set aside adding more references , and stick to what 's been published . However , you should continue to monitor the field , and if further revisions or updates of the text are necessary , then you should include the papers published in the interim as part of your updates .
I do n't think that survey URL 's domain plays a significant role in trustworthiness of a doctoral survey request . What is far more important IMHO are the contents and writing style of the invitation letter as well as having solid professional or academic online profiles ( as most likely most people will be looking you up anyway ) . In regard to the software selection aspect , my advice is to check the following resources : <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Just keep in mind that some answers are posted by people , affiliated with firms - creators of some survey software . Finally , I would like to emphasize that , when selecting survey software , it is important to consider its features and format flexibility in exporting the results for further data analysis ( I assume such analysis is planned ) .
If you 're using forums , do n't just make a thread and then write : Class project , please fill out this survey . Link : www.xxxxxx984asdfac . Thx !! Most of the time these annoying threads can trigger shutting down or be simply ignored as spam . I 'd recommend picking a few major forums and actually start a communication with the administrators . In no more than a few hundred words explain who you are , what questions you 're trying to answer , and how your results may help both parties . If the outcome is positive , here are a bunch of wishes you can usually ask for : Pin your thread at the top for a fixed amount of time to enhance visibility . Tap into their membership e-mail or online messaging network for an announcement and about 2 waves of weekly reminders . Provide you with important statistics including open rate , click rate , bounce rate , initiation rate , and completion rate . These are all necessary if you are to publish your results in an academic journal . Try to enhance your credibility by , in the mail to the administrator and the message to the users : Detailing the motive of your survey , what kind of questions respondents should anticipate , and how long would it take . Getting an institutional review board approval , and report so in the announcement . Explicitly mentioning the measures to ensure respondents ' confidentiality and/or anonymity . Explaining how the results will be used , and even be fed back to the communities that have helped you filling in the survey . Being real and present by providing your official contact information ( names and school e-mail are sufficient ) . Invite respondents to contact you if they have questions about the study . Check with your supervisor and department for policy of using the school 's name . Clearly stating the opening period of the survey . You can also try contacting companies that hire freelancers , or talk to websites that organize freelance jobs . I 'd also suggest to make duplicates of your survey so that each forum will have their own referral link . You can pool the data later and compare the differences between forum . If you just make one survey you may not be able to figure that out at the end . Putting a " where do you learn about this survey ? " question may also help , though probably not as objective . Now , if you do n't care about knowing all those rates , and just want a quick turn around of data , you may use your network to contact some high profile people in the field and see if they are willing to broadcast that for you . Most of the time , a tweet from them would be quite effective . I also agree with the comments asking you to pay a visit to some social science faculty . At the very least , make sure your questions are examined by some professional for validity . Most researchers also do not mind share with you some templates of the survey introduction . Some other technical strayed thoughts : Do make a copy of online survey for each major source . Aka forum A will have its own link , and forum B will have its own link , etc. . That way later you can stratify them in the analysis . Invest in a good online survey service . Make sure not to enroll in those with limited responses . It 'd be very annoying for the 501st respondent to get a " quota full " warning if your free service account only allows 500 responses . Write good questions and include only relevant questions . Again , talking to some researchers will help a lot . The <URL> provides a good list of components you should include in manuscript . Read them before you start data collection and make sure you have thought about all these factors . Lastly , check if someone has already invented the wheel for you . Secondary data sets may have already covered information you wish to collect . For example <URL> maintained by the US Department of Labor ( I just went ahead and assume that you 're interested in the US market ) does ask question about freelancing . They even once released a <URL> about this .
If you mean " is it outrageous to ask a librarian to collect research papers for you , " then no , it 's not outrageous ; some librarians do that , though rarely the librarians working in public libraries . For most university students ( at least in the US . You 're in Indonesia so the system may vary , ) they go to their school libraries because the collections are much closer to their fields of study . The librarians are also more proficient in handling academics-related questions . If you do have an affiliated university , I 'll check with the librarians there first . If you do n't have one , then I 'll next try to contact some librarians of state-funded or nationally funded universities ( especially if you are a tax payer . ) Most of these public schools open their libraries or provide limited consultation to the public . It would also be valuable to ask if they have any kind of borrower program or consortium you can join : later you may need to download a lot of journal articles and having an access to their server can save you a lot of money . If both of these are no goes , then you can try the public libraries . However , the librarians may not be available to fetch articles for you . Instead , you may ask them for resources ( pamphlet , booklet , website ) on how to perform a literature search ( I 'm assuming literature , but they can also show you other curated forms such as microfilm , legal archive , etc. ) Most public libraries do not subscribe highly professional/specialized journals due to the high price , so realize that your scope can be limited somewhat . If all of these yield no results . I 'd suggest at least pay a graduate students or instructor for 2-3 hours to give you a general rundown/tutorial . As I have said , most librarians will not be able to do the search for you . And it 's better for you , as the researcher , to have the first hand experience and control of the process . At the very least , try ask the librarians about database you should search , how to select keywords , how to export and keep results , what bibliography software is available , reference books on writing literature review etc. . Lastly , the quality of help you are going to get is proportional to the clarity of your vision about the work . The more concrete you can describe your work , the easier for them . Things you should consider are as follows : What is the topic ? What is ( are ) the main question ( s ) you want to answer ? -- in this part , be very explicit about time , location , and other important qualifier ( think <URL> ) How far back in time do you need to go ? What is the purpose of the document ? E.g. For a blog , for a grant proposal , or for an assignment ?
Generally , the best way to respond is with a detailed rundown , discussing every point that the referee raised in turn . ( This may be unnecessary if there are only a handful of minor changes asked for , but it does n't hurt even then . ) What I generally do is to start with a two or three sentence introduction , stating that I have made all the changes that the referee suggests . If there were changes that I was unwilling to make , I just say that I have made most of the changes but that I feel that one or more of the referee 's requests were not appropriate . Then I begin a point-by-point analysis of what the referee said and how I have responded . Usually , I address the points in the same order as the referee raised them in their report , but not always . ( Sometimes there may be just one major revision that was requested , and I want to discuss that first , before the minor points , even though the referee did not order things the same way . ) It 's often a good idea to quote directly what the referee said in the report and then follow up with an explanation of the changes that have been made . Sometimes , just stating that the change has been made is sufficient . This is typically all that 's needed for linguistic problems . If the editor and referee may have trouble finding a change , you can point out where it is . If the changes are more substantive , it 's a good idea to give a summary of what the changes were . These do n't need to be long , but the should point out the main significance of the changes . If there were changes that you were unwilling to make , you must carefully explain why . If you think the referee was wrong , this should be pointed out very tactfully . A good referee will recognize their error if they really made one . If there are matters of opinion , it may be trickier to convince editor and referee that things are really better your way . It is also important that you make it clear that you are reasonable about making changes . If you refuse to make anything but the most trivial corrections in response to a referee 's report , that makes you look stubborn and probably unreasonable .
It is not uncommon for the advisor to ask a student to review a paper . Let 's face it -- reviewing is a chore , takes a huge chunk of your time and most people do it not out of interest for the paper , but rather a necessity ( it factors in promotions within the organization and recognition within the society ) and probably some feigned interest in the " role of an academic " and " giving back to the society " . Usually , the papers that an advisor passes on to their students are tangentially related to their interests only mildly interesting or borderline stuff are not from top-tier journals As a student , you should never pass up on these opportunities . It can be a very rewarding experience to review a paper and discuss with your advisor . Some of the things you 'll learn are : that you did n't catch on to some inconsistency/mistake after a month of review , but your advisor did it in 15 mins of casual reading . to write an effective critique while at the same time not putting the authors down . Contrary to what many may think , a review is not all about " your math sucks ! " . While yes , it should be pointed out if it indeed sucks , there are ways of saying that . If you spend a lot of the review finding faults , then it is also " fair " to throw in a couple of nice things about the paper and balance it . you 'll also learn to not nit pick on minor quibbles and focus on the technical content ( I hate it when a reviewer makes a huge deal of ' data are ' vs ' data is ' ) . You 'll learn to do this while juggling other activities , so it 's also an early lesson in time management . In the end , the quality of the review is partly your advisor 's responsibility and he 's not going to allow it if it is completely shabby . So , take this as an opportunity to learn about how to write a review . Speaking for myself , I reviewed a couple of papers for my advisor in my early years and now , after I have a few publications to my name , I get invited to review papers on my own ( i.e. , not via my advisor ) . Recently , there were a couple of opportunities that my advisor passed on to me , but the difference this time , is that he trusts me to do a decent review and so requested the editor to officially ask me to review , so that I 'll get credit for it .
There is no difference . There is no global standard for what qualifies as a BS and what qualifies as a BA ; it 's entirely up to the university . There is no way to tell from the letters on your diploma how broad or rigorous your degree program is . Computer science programs in the US , at least in engineering colleges , are accredited by ABET . Those accredited programs tend to give Bachelor of Science degrees . But CS accreditation is relatively new , and neither graduate scihools nor employers really care whether your degree is accredited ( except for some government jobs which require accredited degrees by law ) . What does matter is which classes you took , and how rigorous those classes are ( or appear to be , based on publicly available course descriptions/materials ) . If the degree type does n't matter , what are the positives/negatives of getting a PhD with an BA/BS . The only advantage of getting a PhD with a BS instead of a BA is that you have one more S in your CV and one less A . This is also the only disadvantqge .
The question of what sort of ethical approval is required is a complicated one , depending on the local laws , funding sources , university policies , and journal policies . I do n't think anyone can give a definitive answer without knowing these details . For example , see <URL> for an indication of the rules imposed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services . Since we have the forms of informed consent , are n't they sufficient ? No . If ethical review consisted of nothing but saying " be sure to obtain informed consent " , then it would be replaced by a simple rule requiring informed consent . Even that is tricky ( what exactly are the risks you need to inform participants of ? ) , and there are other issues for a survey . For example , are you following best practices to ensure anonymity of survey respondents ? If none work out , is there a repository for unpublished work like ArXiv in epidemiology ? I do n't know , but I ca n't really imagine the community would look kindly on using such a repository to avoid ethical review . The institute ethical committee denied a post hoc approval . It makes sense for ethics committees to be reluctant to approve research after the fact . One reason is that it puts a lot of pressure on them to approve research that 's not perfect but can no longer be fixed ; another reason is that if post hoc approval is an option , it creates an incentive for researchers to skip the initial approval in the hope of forcing it through the process later .
After a deeper thought , I 've come to a conclusion not to cite commercial product pages as it would turn part of my academic paper into an online shopping catalogue . The following are the alternatives adopted : Include the name of the company along with product name Cite patents of the products Cite product-specific publications
Just to expand on Peter 's answer , there is a saying on the University of Canberra 's <URL> regarding academic papers : Academic material is not meant to be read . It is meant to be ransacked and pillaged for essential content . Particularly , some of their advice for reading academic texts may be of help in helping you with the time taken to read and summarise the texts that you have , specifically before you start reading , have a question already that you want answered and very importantly , to optimise your time in reading academic papers : If there is a summary , a conclusion , a set of sub-headings , or an abstract , read that first , because it will give you a map of what the text contains . You can then deal with the text structurally , looking for particular points , not just reading ' blind ' and so easily getting lost . I always have a subject-based dictionary on hand as well .
Basic answer : usually it does not matter for anything whatsoever . Personal anecdote : Sometimes such degrees differ in minutia that few ( i.e. no one ) would care about . At my US undergraduate institution , I took majors in philosophy and chemistry , but I made the chemistry major first on some sort of form to insure the BS rather than the BA . I did so because my school offered both BAs and BSs in chemistry that differed insofar as the BA was easier to earn . At the time , I imagined someone would care . Longer Explanation I went on to earn a MA and then PhD in philosophy ( at different institutions ) , and I would say in retrospect that no one would probably have cared in the slightest unless they specifically wanted that coursework difference for some reason . Moreover , the terms used for undergraduate degrees differ so markedly by institution that no one would depend on the title of your degree to figure out what you did or studied . Explanation of Degree of Interest If I were to guess , I would venture that a BS in EE has more humanities than a BE and that the former might be in a college of arts and sciences and the latter in a college of engineering . I would be willing to venture $ 0.01 x 10 ^ -6 on this .
As you 've described it , this sounds rather odd . Reviewers are under no obligation to accept a paper to review , so to accept one and then submit what sounds from your description like a complete cop-out is strange behaviour . It 's also a bit odd for the editor to send you completely uninformative comments . It 's possible that they genuinely did write a review , but that the text has been copied mistakenly , either by the reviewer or by the editor . It might therefore be worth sending a brief email to the editor to enquire about this review . Something along the lines of : " Thank you for consideration of our paper . In the copy that I received one of the reviews does not contain any comments , only text from our paper . I just wanted to double-check that the correct version has been sent through , in order to make sure that I can respond effectively to all of the reviewers . " Be very polite , and make sure you phrase it as a request for clarification , rather than a complaint . If it turns out it was their genuine review , you are of course allowed to care - it 's a bit frustrating if one of the reviewers has not fulfilled their role properly . But it 's not a big deal , and there 's not much that you can or should do about it . Some journals only get comments from two reviewers anyway , so just think of it that way and ignore the third .
I think the difference is whether the Festschrift is its own book ( then the quality solely depends on the editors ) or in a renowned peer-reviewed journal ( who 'd have a reputation to loose with a bad special issue ) . And I 'd have a look what is the title and what the subtitle - the impression of " Festschrift for Big Guy " is entirely different from " Scientific Subject " subtitle " dedicated to Big Guy " or " collected in honor of Big Guy 's scientific work " . In my field , special issues of peer-reviewed journals about conferences or concentrating on a certain subject are common . The idea behind the conference issues is to ensure the normal peer-review process because conference proceedings have a bad reputation of no or no real review after the contribution is accepted ( by abstract only ) . To the point that many people do not submit conference proceedings because they see them as a complete waste of time . The indications I have are that the peer review process is up to the usual standard of the journal . If you look at <URL> of a special issue dedicated to Prof. Mantsch , you 'll see that the special issue consists of original research , there is n't even a review article in about the historical development of the field in that issue ( there is an editorial , though ) . Also , it is primarily a conference special issue , and this conference ( of a regular series ) also had the dedication ( which came out most at the conference dinner speech , not at the scientific sessions ) . Our paper had a two-line dedication before the abstract , and besides that it is a normal original research paper that underwent peer-review . I have not seen in my field a special issue that was primarily dedicated to someone and not primarily thematic with a dedication . ( thematic special issues ) : I do n't know whether the reviewers know that the paper is intended for the special issue , I never had a review to do that indicated anything of the sort . In my experience not only the normal quality but also the normal subject criteria apply . Sometimes , the invitation takes place only after the peer-review process is over : after the acceptance of a paper we were asked whether we 'd like it to be published in a special issue that was upcoming and where it thematically fit in . Sometimes , special issues are not filled by invitations , but the fact that a thematic special issue is planned , is circulated .
It is normal . Often there is one referee who writes an extensive review , whose judgment weight heaviest with the editor . If there are 4 reviews , 3 are in the " publish " half of the spectrum but are brief ( not adequately justifying the recommendation ) , and there is 1 " reject " review which extensively argues against publication , an editor will either have to apply his/her own knowledge of the field and decide which argument carries the day , or will need to request an additional review . Good editors do not just count up the plus and minus values , they have to evaluate the evidence in the reviews . If you make the case for reconsideration , I think it should focus on the question of whether positive evidence in the reviews has been undervalued . There 's not much you can do if the negative reviewer is ( unbeknownst to you ) The Leading Authority .
end question
start question
Should I write a recommendation letter for a student at a previous job/institution ?
When you change job , you do n't erase your memory ( well , not in all jobs ) , nor do you all your responsibilities related to this previous job vanish . It is true that leaving a position creates certain obligations in the data you can retain , and how you can use non-publicly available information pertaining to your older institution . However , in the particular case of a reference letter , I do n't think it should cause trouble . Moreover , reference letters are confidential . Actually , I 'd go further than saying it should not be a problem . In fact , I think if you can honestly write him a good recommendation letter , it is part of your responsibility to do it . This responsibility is not to your former institution , but to the student and the academic system as a whole .
I have seen both used in recommendation letters , regardless of the strength of the recommendation letter itself . I would , myself , recommend Dr. John Doe / Dr. Doe for most professional relationships , except when it is clear that you have formed a close professional relationship ( PhD student , or long-term collaborator or post-doc ) . In case you go for the surname , I would still use the full name at the first mention : Dr. John Doe was a student of mine at the University of X , where I teach Y , ... . He later joined my research group as a Masters , then PhD student . John is an extremely bright student , ... ( Of course , that 's merely an example and not a good letter wording , so do not look at the wording itself , only the use of names ... )
I 've occasionally seen letters with incorrect graduate program names , and it 's not something I 'd worry about . It 's never bothered me , and while I 've seen other committee members point it out , I 've never gotten the impression that they particularly cared . ( They 've pointed it out in the spirit of " Oops , someone messed up " rather than " Here 's a negative factor we should keep in mind . " ) There are two cases in which it could be harmful : If you name a substantially lower-ranked program , then the reader might wonder whether this low ranking influenced your recommendation . ( Maybe you have several variants of the letter , and send more enthusiastic variants to lower-ranked programs . ) If you include any comments about how suitable this specific program is for the applicant , then of course these comments will become worthless if you name the wrong school . However , most letters for applicants to graduate school do n't include such comments , and even when they do it 's rarely a crucial part of the letter . ( It 's particularly awkward if you send Harvard a letter talking about what a perfect fit Yale would be and how you have encouraged the applicant to go there if accepted . ) You mention the possibility of hurting the applicant by revealing where else they have applied . Theoretically , this could look weird or problematic if they 've made eccentric choices about where to apply . ( If a top program knows they 're also applying to a much lower-ranked program , then the committee might take it as an admission of weakness or an indication that the applicant has a strong personal reason to go elsewhere . ) However , I would n't worry about it in practice . It 's expected that everyone will apply to a range of schools , and I do n't recall ever having seen a case I thought would really worry admissions committees .
If you feel that A is sufficiently familiar with your work and your expertise and can comment upon those responsibly , then it is not inappropriate to ask him for a reference letter . Your perception of your relationship maybe , however , different from his . And if that is the case he will probably politely turn you down ( he is too busy , he does not feel comfortable doing it , etc. ) in which case do n't take it personally and do n't hold it against him , and certainly do n't force the matter . Having a weak letter at times is worse than not having one at all . If the request was made to a complete stranger , it is possible that person may develop a bad impression due to this request out of the blue . But since you have been in correspondence with A , the worst that can happen really is that he would say ' no ' . To put in a personal perspective : I have had an experience where an expert in the field , who has read some of my papers , and who has invited me for seminars ( and hence whom I have personally met ) , turn down a request for a reference letter because he feel he is not in a position to write me an extremely strong letter . I have had also an experience where an expert in the field agreed to write me a reference letter based on having read some of my papers and having conversed with some of my co-authors . We only had e-mail and Skype discussions after he agreed to write the letter and want to find out more about me and my interests .
The issue with getting a letter from a post-doc is not their job title ; it 's the degree of experience they have with different students , and the authority with which they can judge their preparedness for a graduate program . So , it 's not that a letter from a postdoc is unacceptable and as soon as they have an assistant professorship everything is great . There 's a subtle continuum where the more experience someone has , the more weight their letter has , because they have known so many more students . Also , this is a bit more cynical , but humans are social creatures . It 's well-nigh unavoidable that they give more weight to a letter from someone they know personally . A postdoc is much less likely to be well-connected and thus able to leverage this for you .
It generally does n't matter much ( though I would n't suggest using in increasing order of helpfulness ) , but if some people deserve special thanks they should be singled out . I 'll often write acknowledgements in this sort of format : I thank Prof A for encouraging me to think about this problem and Prof B for the realization that it could be approached by X ( " chronological order " ) . I also thank C , D and E ( alphabetical order ) for useful discussions and feedback . This work was partially supported by Grant 12345 . If it 's a co-authored paper you can separate sentences/phrases for specific thanks from each author . Generally my advice on questions like this is just to look at a bunch of other papers , see what they do , and learn from that .
I think the best approach is to think of them as two completely separate papers . When you write the second paper you should write it as if you have read but not authored the first . You therefore need to add the necessary background and literature review to make it stand on its own . The reason for this is that anyone who finds your ( second ) paper once published will not necessarily know of the connection , may not have read the first , and will need a reasonable introduction to the subject . So , each paper should be an entity of its own . The only clear case where this may not be necessary is if you publish two papers back to back as part 1 and 2 of a series with the same main title but differing sub-titles . Then it is clear that the papers belong together and you may expect people to note and read both papers to a larger extent .
Here 's how it typically works ( at least in the U.S. ) . First , you should warn him that you do n't feel you can write a strong enough recommendation for him to get this job , and that you 're convinced he 'd be better off with another recommender . You should try to explain why , so he can learn why you think this position is not a good fit for him . If he insists that he wants to apply and has no other options for a recommendation , then you should try to write a supportive but honest letter , typically by taking your previous letter and strategically modifying it to fit this particular job . By " supportive but honest " , I mean making the best case you reasonably can under the circumstances , but being honest about any weaknesses and not endorsing him in any way you 'd regret . Often , instead of saying " I do n't recommend hiring him " you can instead say something with enough qualifications that anyone can read between the lines . For example , suppose an excellent teacher is applying for a job he simply does n't have the research accomplishments for . You can send a letter that comments in detail about his teaching and concludes by saying " Although Bob does not yet have any peer-reviewed publications , I 'm confident that his work in progress will lead to a publishable paper . When combined with his excellent and enthusiastic teaching , this makes him a good candidate for a faculty position that prioritizes teaching over research . " If you send this to a faculty search at a research university , they will read it as an automatic rejection , without your having to say so explicitly . ( Note that if Bob actually applies to an appropriate teaching position , then you should not send this text , but rather a more enthusiastic version with fewer qualifications . ) Of course you may not want to set up an automatic rejection , but rather just to make sure the hiring committee is aware of your concerns . Another possibility is to conclude by saying " Bob is in many ways a strong candidate for this position . My one reservation is ... " If the hiring committee agrees with you that this is a concern , then they will reject him , but at least you gave him a chance to find out whether this issue worries the committee .
I recommend the first person . Like most good linguistic constructions , the reader passes over it without explicitly noticing it , whereas your first construction with " this reviewer " holds up the entire mental process for a split second . The idea of using the third person to " soften " the criticism : well , Paul Garrett knows how much I esteem him , and we usually see eye-to-eye on things . But this time I simply disagree . The reviewer is empowered -- nay , enjoined -- to supply an opinion on the work . If you want to shade your opinion , explain very carefully and explicitly why you are doing that . Switching to the third person should not convey that you are less sure of yourself , and it does not convey that to my ear . [ Imagine my answer began with " This academic " . Would n't that have been more distracting ? ]
If you think there was an oversight , you could always ask the chair of the tenure committee directly if they left you out . Alternatively , you could simply write the letter and submit it to the committee . The worst-case scenario here is that the letter is not forwarded to the committee .
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
No . It is you as a person who is applying , not you as a representative for your university . Univ. . Y would probably look very negatively on an application on such lerterhead , as would Univ. . X. Letterheads are intended for your official business of your position at X as teacher , researcher etc. . Applying for a job or for example writing somewhere for your private business is just that , private . You can , however , create your own private letterhead to use for such instances but this should reflect your private standing and show only private address , phone and e-mail . So keep the official business separate from your private . As alluded to this also applies to e-mail , something most people forget about . It is good to have your own private e-mail for instances such as this .
Because it 's a cover letter , I think it 's quite natural that you say a lot about you in it . That 's actually not to be avoided , because you want to give the addressee a good idea of your background , your motivations , your interests , etc. . In short , you want to show them who you are , so they want to work with you . This is a totally different exercise than usual academic writing . Now , regarding the redundancy of I , it is a matter of writing style . It probably would n't bother me much , but if you want to diminish it for some reasons , here are worthy alternatives : Instead of starting your sentence with I , just push it somewhere down in some sentences . That way , you avoid the pattern of I as the first word of every sentence . Looking at your group 's wide range of research , I must confess a certain attraction for your recent groundbreaking work on the correlation between <URL> . <URL> Use constructions that , while retaining the first person , shift from the subject pronoun to other cases : It has been my intention for a few years now to shift my research interests from pure psychology to experimental psychohistory , and I have thus taken in 2009 a post-doc position at the University of Trentor ( group of prof. Seldon ) instead of " I decided a few years ago to move to the field of psychohistory ... " . Similarly , you could say <URL> The standard techniques of academic writing ... introduce the pronoun once , then shift the discuss to avoid being the actor , e.g. using passive voice . During my thesis , I introduced a new data reduction technique called XXZ . This algorithm , when applied to large datasets , was used to univocally establish whether data was being manipulated . In particular , results obtained on the 2000 election showed systematic bias against a specific candidate , highlighting its power as a diagnostic tool for real-life applications . <URL> Be aware that there are downsides , though : most of these alternatives are longer than a direct sentence starting with I , which means overusing them could make you sound windy .
If I cared enough about a person to write a letter of recommendation , I would be pleased to think that one day after I am gone that the person could use my letter for their benefit . You will possibly benefit from this recommendation and possibly someone else will suffer if you are selected based upon the recommendation ; however , competition is not generally considered unethical . There are no legal questions raised that I can imagine . It seems unconventional , but not extreme . My feelings are that it would be ethical to use the letter .
( 1 ) For the cover letter , should it end by saying something , In my experience ( ~ 10 years on hiring committees , starting my second year as hiring committee chair ) , almost nobody will read your cover letter . If you have something to say about your research , say it in your research statement . If you have something to say about your teaching , say it in your teaching statement . If you have something to say about your personal life , do n't . If the department does n't acknowledge receipt ( typically by email ) , it 's reasonable to call or email the department to double-check . But " waiting for your call " is unreasonably optimistic . Each department you 're applying to probably gets hundreds of applications for each faculty position . ( 2 ) Should the cover letter contain qualifications and skills like highly-motivated , fast learner etc ? Absolutely not ! " Motivated " and " fast learner " are neither skills nor qualifications ; they 're useless boilerplate . Of course you 're motivated and a fast learner ; otherwise , you would n't have a PhD and a publication record consistent with a tenure-track faculty position . Your actual skills and qualifications should be apparent from your CV , your research and teaching statements , and your recommendation letters . ( 3 ) Some recommends to mention potential drs from the department that the applicant can work with . Is this a good idea ? If Dr. A is working on topic T , and I want to work on topic T , then should I say that I would like to collaborate with Dr. A ? If yes , what is a good way to say it ?! Do n't just say it ; make a convincing case . Just dropping a few names into your research statement will be written off immediately as meaningless boilerplate . If your research goals really do converge with Dr. A 's research interests , that should be obvious from your larger research narrative , and it should be easy for you to draw specific , technical , and credible connections between your interests and Dr. A 's . Do not fake it . We can tell . ( 4 ) For the research statement , should I use " I " or " we " for joint papers , assuming that I was the first author ? " We " or " my coauthors and I " ; using " I " for joint work is dishonest . But this is a relatively minor issue .
Once you 've accepted a job offer , you are supposed to inform other places that you 've applied that you would like to withdraw from consideration . If they still want to invite you over to give a talk knowing that you can not be considered for the position , go ahead . But , you must tell them . To do otherwise would be a serious breach of ethics . You do not want to gain a reputation as someone who engages in unethical behavior ( do n't assume they wo n't find out ) .
As Student B , I would be pretty mad about this , even more than if he had declined to write me a letter in the first place . But I would also recognize that it was for the best ( if he had n't done this , he would have written me a bad letter ) . Also , I would never have gone to the department head about this because It 's not something that merits a formal complaint It 's not something I 'd want to be known for , especially among other professors who may be writing my letters of recommendation .
You want your reader to be able to figure out what 's in the paper without reading through all the technical details , and then going through the trouble of synthesizing what you 've written to figure out the what the paper means . If you want your paper to have any impact at all , you need to put an executive summary somewhere in it . Whether you put all the details of the summary at the end of the introduction , or put a less detailed summary in the introduction , and expand on the details at the beginning of each section may depend on the author and/or the field . It may be that in your field , people expect summaries at the end/beginning of each section , and will look for them there . But if you 're careful about what you say and how you say it , you do n't need to repeat details from the introduction at the beginnings of the section , so putting the summaries at the beginning/end of the sections should n't use much extra space .
The key principle is this : just as with a negative review , you need to demonstrate that you have read the paper thoroughly and are making your judgement for sound scientific reasons . If you like a paper , you should be able to say why you like it . Beyond the paraphrased summary of goals and contributions ( which should begin any review ) , you can spend a sentence or two saying what aspects of the work or its presentation you found particularly compelling or particularly elegant , and why . It 's also a rare paper that does n't have any minor errors or needs for improvement , and you can also point out those , prefaced with something like , " The only things I see needing improvement are a few minor points of copyediting and clarification . " In the end , your review might be quite short , and that 's fine .
I write letters all the time for students I 've taught , but whom I have n't seen for a long period . I do ask for specific information : Tell me what the deadline is ! Include your student number . Remind me which of my classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? I am going to have to answer those questions when I write your reference , so the more details the better . I have to have personal knowledge of anything I write , so remind me of those things I may have forgotten . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that I may not know about ? Tell why you 're particularly qualified for the job , educational program , or award you 're applying for . What makes me particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? Include a copy of your application essay . Put that stuff together , write the professor a note saying , " As the deadline of [ whenever it is ] is approaching , I thought the following material might help you . Thank you again for agreeing to write a recommendation . " The professor who has that material to hand can complete a letter in a much shorter time than if it all had to be looked up and remembered . People ( that would be me ) tend to do the easy things before the hard things . Make this one an easy thing !
end question
start question
I 'm the only grad student who was n't asked to write a tenure recommendation for my advisor . Should I be concerned ?
If you think there was an oversight , you could always ask the chair of the tenure committee directly if they left you out . Alternatively , you could simply write the letter and submit it to the committee . The worst-case scenario here is that the letter is not forwarded to the committee .
Is this a cultural difference between continental European and British/American system I can not surely speak for all continental Europe , not even for a small portion of it and not for all fields , but speaking with a few European colleagues of mine , it appears that the expectations that we have on recommendation letters are completely different from the typical US expectations . In particular : We mostly consider recommendation letters as a mean to discriminate between those that are not able to provide any recommendation letter and those that can provide at least a couple . That is , we expect most of the people not to be able to get one ( in a distant past , I would n't have considered one who just attended one or two classes with me eligible for a recommendation letter ) . We do n't expect recommendation letters to be more than one page long , and half a page is ok ( you just have to tell me that you had worked with this person and that they are not that bad ) . We do n't expect the recommendation letters to be sent directly from the reference to the application board . We consider the writing of recommendation letters as a favour to the applicant , and not as a duty of our profession . Actually , all the recommendation letters I wrote but one were handed directly to the student ( or former student ) . For the exception , I 've received a direct request from a university to submit the recommendation through their online system : the uploading procedure , with questions to answer too , was such a hassle that I 've decided that in the future I will probably decline any request for recommendation letters to be uploaded anywhere . To answer your main question : Should I ask the professors to write and hand me recommendation letters directly , or should I try to communicate with the university and let the professors email them the letter/give me a physical letter sealed within an envelop , which I will send to the university by mail later on ? I understand your reasons , but I 'd consider this an odd thing to do . I 'd simply ask the student to provide the recommendation letters . In case the professors were reluctant to hand the letters directly to the student , I 'd write an email explaining the different traditions .
Do not use any professional letterhead when you are not speaking " on behalf " of the entity it comes from . Using your status , like explaining who you are or whatever , is fine . However , the sole fact of using entity 's letter head , implicitly involves your employer and can only ends in a bad situation . If you are writing to another department of the same university , like in case of an internal matter , this can be deemed acceptable , but otherwise I would refrain from doing it .
Allow me to hypothesize a different tack from most of the other answers : Simply do n't engage in this issue at all . As my mentor said once , " You constantly get institutional demands for some action , in some cases it 's best to ignore them , and you 'll find that many just go away . " This request is so incredibly unethical , and also so completely orthogonal to your responsibilities as a graduate student , that it 's hard for me to imagine your advisor spending time on tracking you down and taking revenge over it . If you think you might receive more pressure later on ( e.g. , I 've sadly cracked under such circumstances ) , go ahead and cast the online vote in the privacy of your own home , and then later on say , " Oh sorry , I got a notification and cast the vote immediately . " The request is so inflammatory that I do n't see any use to " politely having an open discussion with your advisor " . I think that only opens the door for defensiveness and retaliation . As wildly unacceptable as it is , I do n't see it as being a good use of your time tracking down where to lodge a complaint over this matter ( which your advisor seems canny enough to avoid documenting except verbally , so it would be just your word against his , according to comments above ) . At least consider the null action as a possibility .
There 's no problem at all with a student being the principal author ( in the sense of " being in charge of the writing " ) of an academic paper . In fact , I think it 's very good that you consider doing so . Here are , however , some thoughts on the matter : Discuss this with your advisor before writing anything . Once both of you have established that there is sufficient matter for publication , and that you want to publish it , you should make plans for doing so . It includes determining ( right now ! ) the authors list , the order of authors on the list , and plan who will do what . The corresponding author ( or corresponding authors ) , often indicated by an asterisk in the authors list and their contact details in a footnote , do not necessarily need to be the person ( s ) who actually did most of the writing . The contact author is the one who is the most central to the project , and who will be able to deal with correspondence about it in the near and not-so-near future . For that reason , some groups ( including mine ) do not consider students a good choice for corresponding author : in two years , they may be gone to a new job and not interested any more with the paper 's research . A few more comments for first time authors : If you 've never written a paper before , do n't underestimate the task . Writing a paper from A to Z is a complex project , even for experienced authors . It requires using many different skills , and is truly an exercise in both scientific reasoning and communication , with very specific constraints ( style , formatting , length limits , ... ) . Assign a lot of time to writing , and do n't hesitate to get help if you 're stuck ! If in doubt while writing , put yourself in the reader 's shoes . And specifically , a non-specialist reader 's shoes . That should be the guiding principle .
I feel it 's kind of obnoxious to ask for an expected salary , and it does raise issues of whether the answer could be used to lower the initial offer ( or decrease the applicant 's negotiating power ) . I do n't see anything wrong with giving a vague answer or just saying you are flexible . If you specify a number , you should try to choose one that 's representative of the type of school you are applying to , as Danny W. suggests . As for why they do it , one reason is that salaries vary enormously . A regional liberal arts college may pay less than half as much as a leading research university . Some U.S. states scandalously underfund their state universities , so there can be dramatic salary differences between what you 'd think are comparable institutions . The net effect is that schools that are n't able to pay a lot worry about attracting candidates who have no idea how little they pay . They do n't want to waste time trying to hire someone who will never accept any amount they could plausibly offer . One way to get around that is to announce a salary range . However , some departments are hesitant to do that , perhaps because they do n't want to publicly emphasize how little money they get ( and thereby humiliate themselves or discourage applicants ) . Instead , they ask for an expected salary and filter out anyone who names a figure far out of their range . I do n't like it , but it seems to work well enough that departments keep doing it .
From my personal experience it is unusual for undergrad students to have taken 16 math graduate courses while he/she is still in the junior year . What you have taken clearly exceeds the expectations of most graduate programs . If the professors who taught the classes think highly of you , that could be a strong selling point for your graduate school application . As for research experience , you may not want to take it too seriously as a budding mathematician . As Krantz explained in the book A Mathematician 's Survival Guide ( which , btw , is a book you may want to read ) : Mathematics is a bit different [ than other natural sciences ] . We do n't use test tubes . The hard fact of life is that mathematics is a subject that builds vertically . You are not really qualified to do serious research - the sort of research that mathematicians actually do - until after you pass the qualifying exams . So research experience is great in exposing you to the world of math research , but your coursework performance may be sufficient to get you to the graduate school you want to be . I think most graduate programs wo n't mind that you are graduating in three years as long as you complete the same workload as those who graduate in four years . I should say that I 'm not in a math PhD program ; so take my advice with a grain of salt .
You had taken an ETS-driven exam , already , and let ETS give your email address to the universities ... These kind of emails would often be received by many graduate applicants , all over the world ... Hence , you should not assume that these emails are just for you , specifically based on your situation . There are just a bunch of advertisements to catch your attention for potential apply into them . Furthermore , with due attention to the intrinsic information-based characteristics of these emails , one could assert that there is no need to take any reply into account .
While it 's possible that a postdoc letter ( in the absence of further context ) might carry less weight , there are good reasons to ask them anyway : the letter is a testimonial about your ability to do research . A postdoc who 's worked with you is in a much better position to say something nontrivial about this . Lines like " I closely worked with so and so " carry weight . the postdoc might know faculty at the university you 're applying to . In that case the letter carries even more weight ( I 'm likely to pay more attention to letters from people that I know )
I do n't think there is any need at all to communicate further with this PI regarding this matter . I do n't see any point in asking him if he " likes " your CV . It 's a weird request - it 's not his job to evaluate your record at your request , or to tell you whether your CV is well-written . If that is meant to be a way of asking him " What are my chances of getting a postdoc with you ? " , do n't : that 's not something he can reasonably evaluate until there is actually a position and he can compare your application with those of all other applicants . I would not write him back at all , regarding the postdoc specifically . He does n't have a position open , so there is n't any action he can take for you in the short term . If a position appears at some future date , and if he is still interested in you as a candidate : well , he knows how to reach you . And sometimes " Please send me your CV and I will keep you in mind for a future opening " is a polite way of saying " No . " Definitely do not contact his other postdocs . The hiring decision is for the PI to make , not the postdocs , so any questions about it should be directed to the PI . Trying to go behind his back to wheedle out inside information from them would be unprofessional , will annoy the postdocs , and will probably destroy your chances of ever getting hired if the PI should learn of it . If you have some other bona fide reason to stay in contact with this PI ( discussion about research topics of mutual interest , questions about his papers , etc ) , that could be helpful in keeping yourself in his thoughts for possible future postdoc hiring , as well as general networking . But they had better be for real - if you come across as making up reasons to contact him just to get his attention , that will seem slimy .
If a person receives an invitation , the responsibility to deliver will be with that person . That does not necessarily mean that person will be first author although I suspect it will most frequently be the case . There are many posts on academia.sx that deal with first authorships so I do not think I need to replicate many good answers here . Suffice it to say that you need to discuss the authorship with your advisor . Unfortunately , this should have been done early on because lack of an agreement on authorship ordering early on is what usually leads to conflicts in the end . I am not saying this applies in your case but the fact that you ask seems to go in that direction . For authorship and contributorship discussions I can point you to two posts in <URL> and <URL> . There are many other sources but they provide the core ideas on author/contributorship . It is easy to agree with these ideas , more difficult to live by them , particularly in a student-advisor relationship .
Never hold your own recommendation letter ( looks unethical ) , let your current lecturers send the recommendation letter to the universities directly ( via email for example ) , that you applied for . Most universities , ask for two recommendation letters , by asking the information of the lecturers ( e.g. , email , address , phone , etc. ) who do that for you . So the recommendation letters will be sent by your lecturers ( e.g. , email , mail , online form , etc. ) to the universities you applied for ; without you seeing/holding the letter .
It does not make a difference whether your review would be positive or negative , and it is your duty to keep your discussions about the student confidential . Should you choose to review their application , you should not tell the student or anyone not involved in the process that you are doing so . You are being asked to help your university , or maybe just a professor who trusts you , to help with their admissions and hiring process . You should take it seriously and give an honest review if you can . If you do n't feel like you can be objective in your review ( maybe the student is a friend or colleague ) , then you should decline to do so . But I do n't feel like there 's an ethical issue in the applicant not knowing that you 've been asked about them .
Yes , I would suggest you include these in the CV for a graduate application . It probably wo n't make a huge difference in admissions , but it is evidence that you are interested and involved in the research community in your field . You can list them in any way that seems appropriate ; there 's no strict standard format for a CV . You probably have sections for " Education " and " Work experience " and maybe " Publications " ; make a similar section entitled " Conferences attended " or " Conference participation " or something like that . Include the title , date and location of each conference , and maybe a short sentence discussing the scope of the meeting and your role . ( As discussed in the question you linked : later in your career , you will probably want to take this section out . )
If you think there was an oversight , you could always ask the chair of the tenure committee directly if they left you out . Alternatively , you could simply write the letter and submit it to the committee . The worst-case scenario here is that the letter is not forwarded to the committee .
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
Yes . Talk to your advisor . It is really important you learn to , in a good way , think of yourself . Right now , the undergraduates are happy ( they get help ) but your work is suffering . I can imagine that helping undergraduates is part of your job description , but not to the point you can not work anymore yourself . You need to sit down with your professor and your supervisor and discuss that your undergraduate workload is too much . Best is to have a proposal ready yourself , e.g. that you want to spend a day a week helping undergraduates and that that is the limit . Once you get both your professor and your supervisor to agree , no undergraduate can manipulate you into helping him/her . In addition , everyone is clear on their expectations , this is the professional way of dealing with this in my opinion . If you do not set boundaries , you will be the only one suffering . The professor and supervisor will feel somewhat bad , but the undergraduates will find a new person to stalk , while you are left without a PhD .
There is substantial variation between universities , and to an extent departments within a university , about what counts towards tenure . The best way to find out is to ask your department chair , a mentor , or someone on the tenure and promotions committee about what counts . That said , there are ethics regarding what affiliations should be listed on publications . If your " pending publications " are in press or far along the review process , it would be unethical to switch your affiliation . If you are still writing the manuscript , or the reviews require a major revision , and you do additional work while at your new university , then it would be appropriate to add an additional affiliation .
Include the full derivation in the response letter . In the paper , include more hints .
I am sure this varies but is most likely one of the following ( in some kind of falling order ) : you are a well-known and respected researcher/educator in the field you have recently written material that are key to the book ( perhaps referenced in it ) you are known not to know the word " No " ( makes the editors work easier ) you are friends with the editor ( makes his/her life easy ) I doubt many editors will necessarily take you up on an offer ( depending which category you may fall into ) but I am sure some might be fine with it . It never hurts to contact an editor and express interest . You should then provide a background for why you should be considered for such a task .
end question
start question
In what order should I write acknowledgments ?
It generally does n't matter much ( though I would n't suggest using in increasing order of helpfulness ) , but if some people deserve special thanks they should be singled out . I 'll often write acknowledgements in this sort of format : I thank Prof A for encouraging me to think about this problem and Prof B for the realization that it could be approached by X ( " chronological order " ) . I also thank C , D and E ( alphabetical order ) for useful discussions and feedback . This work was partially supported by Grant 12345 . If it 's a co-authored paper you can separate sentences/phrases for specific thanks from each author . Generally my advice on questions like this is just to look at a bunch of other papers , see what they do , and learn from that .
Unlike employers in industry , I believe that graduate admissions committees do n't care if there are gaps , irrelevant work experience , or changes of direction in your employment . Their sole concern are your credentials and capabilities to do academic work . You should focus all your attention on communicating your skills and capabilities to do Masters-level Computer Science work . This includes your course grades as an undergrad , your GRE scores , your computer experience in industry , your recommendation letters , and your engagement with professional and academic communities . ( Business schools are probably an exception to this . Work history is probably important to getting accepted in an MBA program . )
It depends how well-known and wide-spread the result is . If by now it is a very well-known result and the publication already happened quite some time ago , it may not be necessary to quote the original paper . In doubt I 'd quote the article and the books , or at least one of the books . A possible formulation could be : The result below is due to Paul [ reference to article ] ; we recall it in the form given in a monograph by Miller [ reference to book ] . I do not think it is necessary to have read the original paper to be entitled to write this . If it is not too much work to track it down , it could still make sense to at least take a peek at the article you quote .
You can certainly mention a professor and his/her research in your statement of purpose as long as it is genuine . This can show that you are a ) familiar with the school/the department and its faculty and b ) you have a good understanding of the field and your interests within it . There is certainly nothing wrong with saying ' One of the reasons that I chose this school is because Prof. X 's work on XYZ is very interesting , and I would love the opportunity to learn from him/her and his/her work . ' Do n't , however , try to name-drop for the sake of it . You should also make sure that you do a little research to make sure that that professor is actually still going to be doing work during your time at that school . It looks kind of bad if you say ' I really want to work with Prof. A , ' but Prof A is going to be on sabbatical or something like that . This kind of information is not always readily available . In short , do n't be afraid of mentioning a prof if you really mean it and are really excited , but do n't look up someone from each school you are applying to for the sake of putting a name in your paper .
No , there is no need to . Uploading to Arxiv is more than enough . Your Google scholar profile finds all arxiv papers and will notify those who follow your work about your new paper . You can also add a link to the arxiv PDF in your university and personal page . That way , you will only have to update the arxiv version of your paper , without having to ever update again your personal and university webpage . For academia.edu and researchgate I would never bother to upload PDFs . If someone is interested in your work and can not google your name to find the arxiv uploaded version , then I doubt you will get anything meaningful or useful ( e.g. , citation , collaboration ) from such a person , no matter where you upload your papers .
the fact that I had a chance to go to the competition is one of my competitive points . How can I write that down on my CV ? You almost wrote down exactly what you need . was selected to go to SPO , [ ... which is an accomplishment why ? ] an extremely selective program admitting only [ top X % of , Y hundred , etc. ] physics students nationwide And it 's always fine to say " placed in the top 1/2 of students " if true . Just from a resume writing standpoint anything worse than top 1/2 would n't add value to include . As an aside , you are completely right that this is huge lauds . In high school I placed # 8 in a similar state-wide competition . What if the top 10 were invited for an even more competitive competition and I came darn near in last ? Do n't fall for the Russian doll effect which more or less just tells you you 're not # 1 in the world ( ... but even the best undergraduate programs admit more than one physics student ! ) Obviously the admission would be an accomplishment . Quantification is important . Numbers are best for a corporate resume , but perhaps just establishing the prestige of SPO is sufficient . Check their website for info on how prestigious it is to participate . Perhaps they have recognition from the U.S. President or something - whatever it is they 'll be sure to brag about it somewhere . If the reviewer does not know of SPO , they will have no way to tell this is n't just an email list with 30 students submitting problems and answers with a leader board .
The fact that work was funded says almost nothing to me as a reviewer of a paper about that work nor about the odds that such a paper is good . I think funded work is more likely to lead to papers , because the researchers have been paid directly to work on it and have better odds of making progress . That being said , funding is not a guarantee of goodness . Your assertion that unfunded work is normally weaker and unreviewed is not well founded . Unfunded work is often preliminary work designed to prove the feasibility of an idea and lead towards some sort of publication ( poster , presentation , or article ) to bolster the case for later funding . This is very important work and is often done by researchers ( establish and new ) who are moving into a new area or working on a new direction or idea . To attribute lack of funding to weakness is fallacious . Also , many , many good ideas go unfunded . The rejection of a grant application is not necessarily a reflection that the idea is bad , wrong , unsound or otherwise unworthy of funding . Sometimes , many times , it represents the fact that grant programs are highly selective and very competitive . Some have a less than ten percent funding rate . This means that many good applications will be turned away . I would suggest that you soften your judgement about projects based on their funding or lack thereof and focus on which you think is a better idea for purely scientific reasons . If you truly get to pick , then I would suggest that you work on the one that 's more interesting to you , will better promote your career , or may lead to the biggest breakthrough .
You should not base this document on your dreams , but on your plans . You need to write about the impact of the position on your academic profile in view of its potential effects on your depicted plans for the future . In contrast to the SoP , you better merely focus on the future and denouements , in this case . As a matter of fact , every post-doc researcher has implicit mental themes , corresponding to his/her plans for joining the academia in a specific manner . For example , just consider a researcher , who does work in the field of biomedical engineering . He/she might be eager to chase a typical faculty position in the realm of the tissue engineering . Furthermore , suppose that he/she has applied for a post-doc position about the design and manipulation of the chemical polymers to invent new kinds of the cardiovascular tissues . Now , if he/she is supposed to declare the impact of this project on development of his/her academic profile , he/she could assert that this project would , considerably , expand his mind not only to dig into the more multidisciplinary projects between different departments , but also even to show the probable tendency to join a variety of departments , such as medical and science , instead of the engineering schools . That was just a typical reasonable justification for declaration of the potential impact . You need to determine the outcomes of the program upon your specific case and elaborate them , efficiently .
You should use the date conferred . Universities will have an official date where all degrees for the term are conferred on everyone . This is usually not the same date as the graduation ceremony as there can be multiple graduation ceremonies across multiple days , but trying to keep track of all of them would be confusing . It 's much simpler to just pick one day after all the ceremonies and say all degrees are official as of that date . That being said , I 've never heard of an employer ( or anyone ) who really cares about the particular date as long as it 's clear that you 've already met all of the requirements of graduation .
Send him a message Even if you think you know the only truth , maybe there is something you do n't know about this award . If there is no response in . . let 's say 48 hours , let 's go to phase 2 EDIT : concerning the timing , @O . R.Mapper is right , if he is on a vacation ... bad luck . Send a message to the committee They gave the award , so explain the situation , and ask them to put on their website the name of the winner for each year . Explain why you want this . If the commitee is reacting ( if not , will be hard : / ) Send a ( still ) polite mail to the cuprit and tell him he MUST remove what he puts online . No response ? let 's go to the last part Write to his university Even if you think they might not care , it 's still a graduate student , it 's bad for the reputation of the university to have graduate student with a bad behaviors . EDIT : as said by @CaptainEmacs , do NOT to accuse someone , even if you 're sure it is the truth . Tell politely that you think he might have mistaken , that is all . I think that 's the proper way to do it .
In this particular case Author of the framework you your advisor but that is strongly dependent on your local and institutions ' customs and practices . Ask your advisor informally . When still in doubt , always add yourself second to the first draft . If appropriate , your advisor will suggest moving you to first position , which is a lot less embarrasing than the other way around ( your advisor suggesting you should take your name down a notch )
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
Your list is a good start , but I would dig a little deeper into the " expectations " item than you may plan . " Postdoc " is maybe the least well-defined role in a research group , and what you are supposed to ( and allowed to ) do can vary greatly . You need to have a clear understanding in advance whether your vision of the position matches with the vision of your mentor . Concretely : Ask whether you are supposed to write papers without your mentor . If yes , try to get a feel whether the mentor means it ( very few will outright say No to such a request ) . Try to get a feel for what percentage of joint vs. individual work your mentor expects . Ask whether you are supposed to write grant proposals . Ask whether you will be the PI of said proposals , or your mentor . Ask whether you will be responsible for your own PhD students . Ask whether it will be possible to work on topics that are of interest to you , but of less interest to your mentor . Try to get a feel for the mode of collaboration your mentor expects . Everything from " you do your thing and ask me for input when you need it " to " I 'll tell you which problem to work on , and you report back your results to me " is possible , and you will want to know which one it is . In addition to that , also ask what your mentor has in mind in terms of your career plan . When you apply for assistant professorships in a year , will he fully support you , or will he want to keep you around for longer ? If the latter , what can he realistically offer you ?
First of all , I do not like the tone of your question ( no offense ) . It seems like you are having a personal vendetta with those authors , which is a ) silly b ) unjustified ( they did not anything to harm you personally ) c ) counterproductive for your purpose of publishing your work . Let 's summarize some facts : However they claim to be state-of-the-art Either they are or they are not . If this paper is not the state-of-the-art , you should compare your work against the " true " state-of-the-art . If they are considered the state-of-the-art by the community , you should acknowledge that fact . In fact , if this paper has obvious disadvantages , this is even better for you , since it will be easier to show why your approach is better . they did some things which basically amounts to cheating their scores You are probably exaggerating . Some kind of overselling results is normal , but you are implying malpractice , which is not that common . So , tone it down and try to express a cold , neutral and objective evaluation of the other paper , with lots of arguments and experiments that back your opinion in your paper . Also , when you are objective and not trying to trash the other paper , reviewers will buy more into your argumentation . Also , consider that the authors of this paper might also be : a ) your future reviewers b ) your future collaborators c ) your future employers . So , treat your " opposition " with respect . This makes it easier for them to treat you with the same respect and more easily acknowledge and digest the fact that your method is better and their method is worst ( they are after all a part of the same community ) , which makes future collaborations easier and improves your visibility . As part of the introduction of a paper I want to write some critique on previous research Critique is not a motivation . You should first discuss the problem , why it is important , very briefly what previous methods have done on this problem and then you say very briefly and in a very neutral way the shortcomings of previous methods ( not just this one paper but all that have come before ) and why your work will be better . Then you slightly augment this argumentation in the related work section ( about their shortcomings ) again neutrally . It is your experiments section that needs to truly show why your method is better and how much better it performs , only after very thorough and exhaustive experiments that will overcome every reviewers ' doubts . TL ; DR. Keep your critique short , neutral and objective . There is not need to be humble about the advantages of your method but that does not need to be by trashing previous works .
Unfortunately , most hiring committees would at best ignore this contribution and at worst wonder if you allocate your time wisely . The work of translators is ( unfortunately ) given little value in academic communities with the exception of the field of literature and even there it is deprecated . The rationale is that the work is not the result of independent research nor does it add any intellectual value -- it is inherently wholly derivative . There might be some association of value if your translation had been finished , published by a reputable scientific publisher in your country , and you had been given awards or otherwise acknowledged for providing an important service to your community . But even then , there is a perception of someone as being " just a translator " that is hard to shake off . Note that Famous People  are allowed to do translations and be recognized for it , but Famous People  have latitude in their work that non-famous people do n't . At the very worst , a committee might worry that the fact that the translation is unfinished and that you have put effort into doing something with little recognized value means that you do n't allocate your energy and time wisely , and that you are not capable of independent research . The same also applies for authoring textbooks . Textbooks are also seen as inherently derivative and while they make the publisher and author money , are not indications of original scholarship . At this point in your career , you want to be seen as the generator of original scholarship .
You will probably never in your life need the physical certificate . If you do n't want to hang onto it , you can probably just dispose of it ( though you might as well scan it first ) .
As a teacher of graduate-level finance classes , the main writing they are expected to perform are business reports and essays . I find that writing essays is easier for them but it is quite common for students to have challenges writing business reports ( using bullet points properly , using graphics properly , using section headings and very concise writing properly ) . As far as key skills you should be thinking about , the biggest ones are : How to construct a proper argument using academic evidence ( reasonable sources as opposed to some random person 's blog The ability to properly cite the work of others ( related to the point above ) Including counter-arguments in their work ( another extension of the first point ) If all my graduate students had these skills , my life would be much easier .
A person qualified in another area ( such as a Phd in Physics ) who wanted to learn a new topic ( like computer game development ) would likely be welcomed on a full-time taught masters course . Full-time taught masters courses are often designed for those who want a change in direction and have the motivation to focus for the year to achieve that goal . There are people who want to be an astronaut , for example , who go back and learn new skills and knowledge and collect several degrees in the process . You do have to have an interregnum in employment , as a full-time course is exactly that . A lot of daily , weekly and monthly time needs to be devoted to it to learn all that material that others will have picked up in a three year Bachelor 's degree . I teach on such a course and we have many " career change " applicants who are well qualified in other fields . It is quite normal .
I think the best approach is to think of them as two completely separate papers . When you write the second paper you should write it as if you have read but not authored the first . You therefore need to add the necessary background and literature review to make it stand on its own . The reason for this is that anyone who finds your ( second ) paper once published will not necessarily know of the connection , may not have read the first , and will need a reasonable introduction to the subject . So , each paper should be an entity of its own . The only clear case where this may not be necessary is if you publish two papers back to back as part 1 and 2 of a series with the same main title but differing sub-titles . Then it is clear that the papers belong together and you may expect people to note and read both papers to a larger extent .
I would reserve the acknowledgments section for people or organizations that directly contributed to the paper . For example , if you talked with Erikson while he was still alive and he offered advice or suggestions , then it would be appropriate to thank him in the acknowledgments . If you were just inspired by his papers , then it is better to discuss that elsewhere in the paper . For example , you could note in the introduction that your approach is inspired by Erikson 's work on psychological development , or you could mention this background when you define the terms based on his theory . But if you thank him in the acknowledgments section , then people will assume there was a more personal connection unless you clearly specify otherwise ( " Although I was never lucky enough to discuss this work with him in person , I owe Erik Erikson a great debt for ... " ) . The main thing you should not do when thanking a deceased person is to attribute opinions to them , because they are not around to contradict you . For example , you should not thank them in a way that suggests they supported your work , even if it 's true , unless you have some documented proof . For example , it 's awkward to write " I am deeply grateful to Erik Erikson for his steadfast belief in my theory . "
end question
start question
Is a partial PhD a liability in a job search ?
I had a similar case , though my incomplete Master 's came before a completed Master 's in an entirely different field . Any gaps or oddities in your past are questioned . In my case , I had not completed a Master 's in Biology , left , worked for a few years , finished a Master 's in Computer Science , and then got a much better job . Do not remove that entry about being a PhD student . It can potentially come back to bite you down the road if it is found during a background check/re-evaluation , as you are purposely concealing potentially vital information . Instead , prepare to be asked why you are leaving the PhD program during your interview phase . I am not sure of your reasons , but you should be able to bounce your answer off any friends and supportive colleagues to see if they are convinced . Also , consider contacting a technical recruiter to go over your application to evaluate your portfolio . That will help you narrow down any other potential issues with your resume .
No . It is you as a person who is applying , not you as a representative for your university . Univ. . Y would probably look very negatively on an application on such lerterhead , as would Univ. . X. Letterheads are intended for your official business of your position at X as teacher , researcher etc. . Applying for a job or for example writing somewhere for your private business is just that , private . You can , however , create your own private letterhead to use for such instances but this should reflect your private standing and show only private address , phone and e-mail . So keep the official business separate from your private . As alluded to this also applies to e-mail , something most people forget about . It is good to have your own private e-mail for instances such as this .
In my university back in Mexico , they had something similar , if professors want to get ahead ( income , professional , etc ) they had to an additional degree ( Masters , PhD ) I think that if you do not have the motivation , you 'll have a lot of problems , doing a PhD is already a taxing endeavor , in the sense that many times you 'll start wondering wether this was a good idea or not . As in many things in life , if you do this because you are made to ( like students that go to college because their parents want to ) you 'll have lots of resentment . However , not all is lost , you can try looking for something you are really passionate about , and then try to do a PhD on that .
In order to return to academia , you will need to satisfy certain requirements . Most academic jobs require holding a Ph.D. in the relevant field . You already have one . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Teaching jobs require demonstrated teaching experience . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . You could certainly try to build a track record of successful teaching by getting in touch with a local community college and offering to teach a few courses - possibly even while holding your industry day job . If you are serious about returning to academia , this would be an investment , not a source of income , so you could offer to teach for little or no remuneration . Research ( and teaching ) jobs require publications . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Instead , get up to speed on current research , find a good open problem , work on it and publish some papers . Finally , contacts will be invaluable . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Instead , attend conferences , give presentations , get to know people , leave a good impression and hint that you would like to return to academia . Note the common thread going through all these points : a second Ph.D. in the same field wo n't help you . Instead , invest your time in building the kind of portfolio ( teaching , publications , contacts ) that you do need . This will likely be an uphill battle , but if you are motivated enough , then go for it . Good luck !
It is much easier to get a job in an top-notch industry research lab than an R1 professorship for one simple reason : there are vastly more such research lab jobs available . To illustrate this , let 's consider an illustrative example . The <URL> has 55 professors . To sustain a department of that size , they 'll probably be hiring 2-4 people per year , depending on what fraction fail to make tenure . Meanwhile , right next door is its cousin , <URL> , with about <URL> : most of those do n't have PhDs , but a lot of them do , and a quick search on their open job postings finds more than a dozen that are looking for a PhD-level candidate right now . That 's just one company , and one you 've probably never even heard of . There 's a lot more big ones out there , and far more than that if you start considering the smaller ones as well . Now , getting back into a professorship , that 's a different story . It most certainly can be done , if you maintain a good research presence . For most people , however , the trip to industry is a one-way trip , simply because you generally do n't have to publish . Many research companies like it when you publish , and many strongly encourage it -- but the fact that they have to encourage it should tell you that the incentives are just not there the same way . At a company , you are not measured primarily by your ability to publish , and so it tends to get triaged in favor of other things , like writing proposals , delivering demos to customers , or product development . There 's nothing against publishing , but there 's no " publish or perish " and so there 's a lot less publishing . Bottom line : you can move in either direction , but it 's a lot easier to move from university to industry than the reverse .
This exact question has been asked at Webapps Stack Exchange : <URL> Quoting from the ( unaccepted ) answer there : Unfortunately there is n't an option to restrict results like that in Google Scholar ( I appreciate the idea , running into paywalls is very frustrating ) . I guess the argument could be made that you are limiting the articles/knowledge you could be exposed to be only looking at the free things . That and Google 's recognition of what is accessible is n't 100 % . See <URL> for more information .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
Writing useful software is not equivalent to writing and article or a thesis chapter ( which are generally not equivalent to one another either ) . It may , however , be equally valuable for your career , depending on what you want in your career . The real question is whether people will find it highly valuable . If they will find it valuable , then it can be worth something to you . If you want it to readily count towards a conventional academic career , then after the software is done you can write a journal article about it , and people can cite that . <URL> , you 'll find many highly cited works of this sort , showing that it is certainly possible , even if not the straightest and most conventional road to take .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
It never hurts to specifically check with your undergraduate advisor and the desired graduate school 's admission office just to make sure . My understanding is that as long as your current university acknowledges your completion of the undergraduate program ( regardless of whether you physically have the Bachelor degree certificate or not ) prior to you officially beginning your graduate program , then there should be no problem . But like I said , you should check in with your undergrad advisor so that they can inform you of any lingering policies or concerns .
The MA glass ceiling is real . I ca n't talk specifically to the situation at a Canadian technical college , but the same thing happens in the DC policy world I work in . A lot of think tanks and policy shops have researchers with years of experience who ca n't get promoted above a certain point that is practically entry level for incoming PhDs . Some places are starting to address this , recognizing that a PhD is not better than years of successful research experience , but it 's still a wide-spread phenomenon . So , I would n't be at all surprised to find out you do n't have any recourse . If anything it 's likely to be a harder ceiling since you 're actually at an academic institution . As for whether taking the time off to do a PhD is worth it , which I think is the root of your question ? That 's hard to answer . You could run down some hypothetical bullet points : If I did the PhD , and then got the SAME job at the same pay after , would it still be worth it ? That is , would the accomplishment on its own be gratifying ? If I did the PhD , and then got a better job but no more money , would it still be worth it ? That is , would getting through that glass ceiling be enough of a motivator ? How much more money would I expect to make after my PhD , and how much money would I be giving up by leaving the job market for 4-6 years , and would I be coming out ahead ? Also account for whether you can get funding for your PhD or would have to self-fund it all . In other words , the pure economics of it ( you say it would be a financial burden , but that 's not necessarily so in the long run ) . All other things aside , am I willing to make the sacrifices necessary ? You would likely have to temporarily give up lots of things to do this , like having disposable income and the ability to relax on nights and weekends . If you have a family that can be a hard adjustment , though lots of people do it , myself included . Good luck ! My overarching piece of advice would be that if you 're not passionate for the subject you should n't do a PhD in it . But if you can tick that box off , the rest is up to your preferences .
There is no problem in citing a conference paper in a PhD thesis . When selecting literature that you want to use in your scientific work , it is not uncommon to take the reputation of the hosting medium ( journal , conference , etc ) into account . The examiners of your thesis might question the quality of the work that you are citing when it origins from dubious sources . But that holds for dubious conferences , as well as for dubious journals . There are , however , many conferences with an excellent reputation . And there is no reason why you should not cite papers that have been published there . Furthermore , when you make use of a work ( paper or anything else ) that comes from a less established source , you are still obligated to refer to this work . After all , we want things to be verifiable in science . You might even cite a source that you are disagreeing with . Sometimes , an extended version of the conference paper is published as a journal paper , and then you may prefer to cite the journal paper instead .
This question is too broad , but I have a feeling it 's a commonly asked one , so I 'm going to try to answer it anyways . To address ( what used to be ) your second question first : holding a PhD does not make a job candidate any more desirable for the vast majority of positions . Indeed , it can be a factor against the candidate , as they will be perceived as more expensive . For positions where a less-qualified candidate could also fill the role , being overqualified is rarely a good thing . Jobs that are specifically looking for a PhD will typically state that in the requirements . For example , " Masters required , PhD preferred " is a common one in certain parts of the banking sector . However , for entry-level positions ( data entry , lower-level analyst roles , etc ) , you may be at a disadvantage . Regarding your first question , though , you 're being overly harsh on yourself . The process of earning a PhD is significant work experience ; indeed , that 's your main selling point when looking for your first job . Depending on what you did , you will have some or all of the following experience : Identifying , clearly stating , and figuring out how to address a problem - this alone qualifies you to be a consultant at any large firm ; this is all they do , all the time , for different clients Project management Advanced technical writing - your thesis , academic publications Communication skills - working through the peer-review process Public speaking - presenting at conferences Experimental design - your research project The art of researching - the simple knowledge of how to properly find articles , sources , etc ... Even better , you 've been doing all that for four years . You should be selling every single one of those points as hard as you can when you move to industry . EDIT : The above answer stands for the edited second question as well ; as a graduate student , you will want to learn all of the above if you wish to enter the workforce . More specifically , though , almost industry positions seeking PhD candidates will apply to value the following three above most else : Self-starter - shown in that you got your work done Collaborative - demonstrated through successful collaborations with other researchers ( successful = researched together , published together ) Good communication - demonstrated through publications , public speaking , conference presentations , teaching , etc. . During the PhD , aim to do those things , and during your job search , emphasize all those traits in your resume and during interviews .
Canada is different from the USA , in that direct entry for a PhD after a bachelors degree is rare . The typical path is a bachelors , followed by two year masters , followed by four to five years for a PhD . As far as I know , no typical Canadian PhD program also grants a masters , as in Canada , it 's sort of implied that you already had one going into the PhD . This is of course , based on my understanding of the sciences : Humanities and Engineering may vary . EDIT : One note about courses : Course requirements vary dramatically from program to program , university to university . Some will require relatively few courses , others , many more .
It depends on the university and the country . In England , a PhD is typically awarded for a thesis and oral examination of the thesis , usually followed by implementation of corrections to the thesis , the requirements for which are specified during or just after the oral exam . It 's often done soon after a Masters , which is done soon after a Bachelors , so a fairly large proportion of PhDs are awarded at the start of one 's academic career . Whereas a DSc is awarded for a portfolio of work , ( in some cases submitted together with an over-arching critique of that portfolio ) , and thus is more likely to be awarded later in an academic 's career . Nominally , a PhD is a doctorate in philosophy , but is typically awarded for pretty much any subject . There are some who argue that philosophy of knowledge always form part of these studies , regardless of the subject . I occasionally use this line to try to inspire students , myself . A DSc is a doctorate in science , and is not awarded for literature , law , divinity , or music , each of which has its own dedicated higher doctorate . The DSc is a higher doctorate than a PhD , in England . In some other countries , they 're equivalent . Both get the honorific title doctor .
Statistics on institutions should be taken with 14,000,000 grains of salt : some institutions have changed name over time ( including many recently , e.g. in France many institutions were forking twenty years ago and are now merging back ) , and affiliation rules vary widely between authors ( you 'll see below huge contributions from state-wide agencies like " Russian academy of science " or " CNRS " , they are not the same as universities or labs ) . But , you can do it with many bibliographic search tools . Here 's how to do with Web of Science : Make a regular search ( here I chose " title " , but you can do something more complicated ) On the results page , click on the " Analyze Results " link Choose your field of interest ( here , organizations ) Enjoy !
I 've met people who were Computer Science PhDs and actually were part of Psychology departments . If you did HCI , I think it gets harder to do Psychology , after all is a whole study area by itself , since yours was more specific . My advice would be to find a laboratory that has both of them , and that way you can get involved in some projects so you can learn other things about psychology I do not presume to know about the filed , but I 'm guessing there are multiple laboratories that might have a psychologist as well as a computer scientists . Essentially , build up your creed as a Psychologist by going somewhere where there is interaction between the two fields .
In general , I would recommend against asking who the search committee is . It might give the impression that you are trying to " game the system " rather than simply put your best foot forward for everyone . That said , I do n't think this is a serious faux pas . Some departments , including my own , post a list of committee assignments on their department homepages -- mostly out of convenience for their own faculty . So you might be able to answer your question without asking .
The few times I was asked for such a thing , I literally copy-pasted the abstract for my thesis into a document and submitted it . mathjobs does n't want to tell me which jobs asked for it back when I applied so I 'm not sure ( I got two postdoc offers that round but I 'm pretty sure those places did n't ask for a thesis abstract ) . No one emailed me to tell me that I 'd done it wrong though . Usually there is a contact person listed in each mathjobs ad that you could contact to ask for details , but if say the deadline is tonight I would recommend just copy-pasting the thesis abstract , or making up a thesis abstract if your thesis does n't exist yet . In principle though , the introduction to your research statement and your thesis abstract can be ( but is n't always ) quite distinct ( my thesis was a subset of my research statement ) . A research statement should have at least something to say about where you envision your research going , but a thesis abstract is mostly limited to the contents of your thesis .
As a postdoc applicant , you should be starting to develop a distinctive , compelling research agenda and vision . As a grad student , it 's usually enough to work on problems someone gives you , and you can go to your advisor for help as needed . If you never move beyond this , it 's not a great outcome , but you 'll eventually get your Ph.D. ; you just wo n't be on track for further research success . To be a successful postdoc , you need to develop the ability to work more independently . However , intellectual leadership is more than just independence . It 's not enough just to write papers . Instead , these papers should fit together and be aimed towards larger goals , in a way you can articulate coherently . If someone asks you what sort of research you do , you should be able to explain what you are aiming for , how your work differs from other people 's , and why your approach is worthwhile and even important . This takes time and comes only with experience - more will be expected of tenure-track job applicants , or people being considered for tenure or a full professorship . But a postdoc applicant needs to demonstrate a start , by writing a research statement that sounds exciting , and ideally by publishing several papers that build on each other to accomplish something larger than any one of them . It 's even better if other researchers have already started to take up your ideas and apply or extend them , although that 's more common in fast-moving fields with short publication cycles . What you do n't want is to come across just like your advisor , but with less experience and perhaps less talent . You can succeed that way if you do fantastic work , but it 's not a wise approach for most students : it 's just not good advertising to say " I 'm basically a less good version of my advisor . " Even while you are still in graduate school , you should be aiming to differentiate yourself a little from your advisor ( with your advisor 's help - after all , they should n't be trying to produce a clone ) . Find some important aspect of the subject that interests you more than your advisor , learn some useful background they do n't know well , or find a collaborator who does n't work with them . As for how committees judge this , you 've got to make a convincing case in your application . Your research statement should sound like a future leader , not a student ( do n't be arrogant , but you should n't sound like you are implementing someone else 's vision - you need to demonstrate clearly that you understand how everything fits together and are adding your own ideas ) . You need to back your research statement up with publications worthy of it , as well as some concrete ideas for future work . Your letters of recommendation should convey the impact you are already having on the field . Of course this is the best case scenario , and not every application will achieve this , but if you want to get a prestigious postdoc position and go on to a tenure-track job at a research university , then this is what you should be aiming for . You may feel like a fraud even trying to do this , since you know perfectly well that you still have much more to learn , but you should ignore these feelings . Everyone recognizes that postdoc applicants are still developing their research abilities , but it 's important to be ambitious and show what you are capable of . ( In fact , no matter how far you progress in your career , you 'll never reach the point of being able to say " OK , I 've reached my full potential and know everything I need to , " but you ca n't let that stop you . )
end question
start question
How to effectively evaluate your instructor ?
What is the most effective way to communicate with your instructor via evaluation-sheet ? In a word , constructively . If you are overly negative , there 's a good chance you will be viewed as a malcontent with an axe to grind . If you 'd like to maximize the chance for real improvement , avoid blanket negative statements . For example , instead of : This instructor was never available for consultation . try : This class would be better if the instructor was more available to students . ( You send the same message , but with a more constructive -- and therefore more credible -- slant . ) Also , you should be realistic in what kinds of improvements you may expect to see . In my experience , some faculty take student evaluations very seriously , some do n't . Some probably do n't even read them ; the forms are only completed because department policy demands it . There 's another important factor , too : the inmates should n't run the asylum . Some faculty regard student evaluations with disdain , and there may be legitimate reasons why . Sometimes professors who are easy graders get better evaluations from students , while more demanding professors get poor evaluations from students who are either lazy or else come to class with a sense of entitlement . Truth is , there are a lot of dynamics that go into this . Just from reading your question , there 's no way to tell if you 're a good student who unfortunately had a bad professor , or if you 're a bad student who got their feathers ruffled by a very good ( yet challenging ) professor . A single evaluation wo n't have a huge effect either way , but , as I said at the beginning of this answer , I think your best chances for a positive impact comes by writing an evaluation with a more positive and constructive slant . In other words , try using the form to suggest improvements , rather than to harshly criticize . Such forms will be harder to dismiss outright .
Complementary to Suresh 's and Peter 's more comprehensive answers that you should definitely take into account : ( +1 to both ) Use ArXiv ; ie . publish it yourself . Go ahead and write your findings down and put them in public . This will be a good exercise as : you will be covered for plagiarism etc. and you 'll be also able to refer other people 's attention to it . It will be immensely easier to attract people attention to something tangible than just referring to " some idea you think it is great " . As Torvalds said : " Talk is cheap . Show me the code . " ( or Maths in your case ) . people you do not know , can actually find you ; or even cite you for that matter . I know a lot of people who regularly read ArXiv papers to keep up to speed with the bleeding edge of stuff . You might be lucky and really get some attention from people that actually care for your work . you will see for yourself if what you wrote can be formulated in a research paper and it does n't come across as some '' back of the envelope '' calculations . You might even identify where feedback from a collaborator would be helpful . If you think you are up to something good , put it up there . Worse case scenario : nobody bothers and you never know if you were right or wrong .
What is the most effective way to communicate with your instructor via evaluation-sheet ? In a word , constructively . If you are overly negative , there 's a good chance you will be viewed as a malcontent with an axe to grind . If you 'd like to maximize the chance for real improvement , avoid blanket negative statements . For example , instead of : This instructor was never available for consultation . try : This class would be better if the instructor was more available to students . ( You send the same message , but with a more constructive -- and therefore more credible -- slant . ) Also , you should be realistic in what kinds of improvements you may expect to see . In my experience , some faculty take student evaluations very seriously , some do n't . Some probably do n't even read them ; the forms are only completed because department policy demands it . There 's another important factor , too : the inmates should n't run the asylum . Some faculty regard student evaluations with disdain , and there may be legitimate reasons why . Sometimes professors who are easy graders get better evaluations from students , while more demanding professors get poor evaluations from students who are either lazy or else come to class with a sense of entitlement . Truth is , there are a lot of dynamics that go into this . Just from reading your question , there 's no way to tell if you 're a good student who unfortunately had a bad professor , or if you 're a bad student who got their feathers ruffled by a very good ( yet challenging ) professor . A single evaluation wo n't have a huge effect either way , but , as I said at the beginning of this answer , I think your best chances for a positive impact comes by writing an evaluation with a more positive and constructive slant . In other words , try using the form to suggest improvements , rather than to harshly criticize . Such forms will be harder to dismiss outright .
Convenient ? No . Appropriate ? Yes . Unless you are at a point in your career where you can release an impressive " selected publications " CV , your CV is expected to contain everything that you have ever published . That includes publications that nobody has cited and even ones that you are embarrassed by in retrospect . I 've certainly got some of those in my CV ( we were all grad students once ) , and I simply trust that they will be drowned out by all of the good work that has been done since .
I 'm honestly surprised at the question . " Primary " does not mean " only " ! If it 's a good paper , then of course you should publish it . Aside from the obvious personal benefits of making you look more diverse , increasing your visibility in another field , and possibly possibly creating opportunities for future collaboration , you 're doing what research is for : expanding human knowledge . And if it 's not a good paper , then of course you should n't publish it , even if it is in your primary field . But to echo shan23 's comment : Do n't use grants in area X to fund research in area Y.
There is obviously no right or wrong here , one should try to publish in the best suited journal . That said , in fields where there are several options , sticking to a single journal may look a little strange . If you publish in different ( but suitable ) journals , it may be looked upon as that your research is accepted by a wider set of peers . Some may perhaps also think you have a special connection to the journal etc. . So the need to publish in different journals should primarily be the focus of the journal . Some people I know enjoy the fact that they are published in widely different journals and some people may see that as your research being more widely accepted ( right or wrong ) .
Log into you arXiv account and change your e-mail address . You do n't need access to your old e-mail to do this , nor will you lose your arXiv account if you do n't have an academic e-mail address . ( Having an academic address is not a requirement for arXiv participation , after all . ) Once you have an account , there is nothing ( short of administrative action ) that would cause you to lose ownership of your papers or your existing endorsements . It should be no different from changing your e-mail in any other account you have online .
Relative to your core undergraduate courses , I 'd imagine so . Taking advanced graduate courses ( preferably , more advanced versions of your core classes , since this will look like an upward trend if you did n't so hot in your core ones ) , and doing well in them , implies one can do potentially good research in grad school . Courses at this level will tend to expose you to current research that you may work on in the future . Aside from LOR and conference/journal publications , this would be the next best indicator of your potential success in grad school . Which leads to the next question ... I would n't say that it 's significant ( consider that some liberal art colleges may not have available graduate courses to undergraduates , as compared to a research university ) but it 's still important , if the resources are there . Graduate admissions are aware of that , but they key is to stretch your intellectual vitality as far as possible . Remember that there are n't too many indicators of whether or not an undergraduate can do well in grad school ( after all , the " research frontier " , depending on the discipline , may simply be inaccessible , even to an exceptional undergraduate ) . This applies to other fields like mathematics , but three factors will always be taken into account by any respectable institution ( LOR , statement of purpose , research experience ) , and you 've already mentioned them . Aside from that ( and GPA , which is really more of a " cut-off " tool ) , if all else is taken into account , it will probably come down to best fit ; whether or not your research interests coincide with the faculty of your chosen area . If you wanted to do research in artificial intelligence , it would n't make sense to apply to a program that ( hypothetically ) only specializes in mathematical optimization , so you would probably be passed over to someone who does want to do research in AI . aeismail had a nice answer so I will not add much more regarding " red flags " ( I would say that even if you did terrible , say , your freshman year , the best thing to do would be to show an upward trend in your grades ) . However , remember that the main question admission committees want to answer is " Can this person succeed in our program ? " ( i.e can this person do research ? ) , so you have to persuade them to say yes . Your application will be scrutinized by professors who want to see if you 're worthy . Coursework is important , but demonstrating your research potential in ways that are not just related to coursework is essential . The best thing to do would be to create a check-list of what they expect to see in your application , and meet all of the requirements , then go above the call of duty ( whether it 's in the form of a publishable senior thesis , which I would argue is always better than chugging coursework , or presenting your work at a conference , or getting an awesome research-based LOR from a professor who knows you well and can vouch for your potential , or all of the above ) .
I ca n't imagine why it would be cheating : So long as you 're producing the majority of the content , it would n't be cheating to have someone check for the problems that are now invisible to you !
I apologize for the length of my reply , but I think this is a really great question that I discuss with undergraduates and even grad students all the time , and want to use this as an opportunity to share some of my thoughts with you . I completely agree with the points that Fbio Dias made in his answer . However , I want to add one general tip with you that I have found to be extremely effective in my experience both presenting talks and posters as well as judging them . The way I see it , when undergraduate talks/posters are judged , there may or may not be certain specific criteria against which you will be evaluated , but there are certain important subtleties in how you conduct yourself when talking about your work that will almost always affect your evaluation whether there is specific criteria or not . Let me clarify : As Fbio Dias mentioned , there are many important technical factors that are commonly taken into account when judging presentations , but aside from this , I believe that one of the most powerful tools to get great scores on research talks is to demonstrate some passion and interest into the work you are presenting . This is typically the biggest problem with undergraduate presentations . Undergraduates are often not very well-versed in the big picture of their research project and therefore end up simply presenting what they did and what data came of it and what they think it means ( or what their advisor told them it means ) . There is rarely any visible interest in the work , or evidence of creative thought on the part of the student , and this is the biggest factor that separates a great undergrad talk from all other undergrad talks . No matter how dull your research talk may or may not be to you , when you stand up there in front of all those people , make sure to talk and act like you 're the most excited person in the room about the work that you have done . This gets people 's attention , in my opinion , above all else . Some great ways of doing this are : Never , ever , ever , ever , ever read from your slides , especially your title . Always come up with a great " prose " way to describe your whole project and then your data . Try to look at your slides as little as possible , unless you 're pointing out something on a figure . Look at the audience , glance around the room . In a scientific forum setting , simple presentation skills often directly translate into command of the material being presented . A great way to prevent yourself from doing the above is to not have many words on your slides , this keeps people interested and keeps you from reading to the audience . Many undergrads believe that their research can not be presented without many words on the slides , but there is almost always a creative way to do this . Question yourself , and question your research . This does not mean you should tell the audience that your conclusions are not accurate , but rather avoid being too rigid in how you describe your conclusions . Avoid words phrases like ' definitely , ' ' clearly , ' ' this means that , ' ' we discovered , ' or any version of the word prove/proof/proved , unless used as a technical term such as ' mathematical proof . ' Always talk about your work in terms of what it could mean for the future , For example , talk about some interesting data that you could n't yet explain ; offer several possible ways to frame your conclusions ; try to add a few " next steps " to your presentation ( and not as a list on the last slide , but work it in in a few places as you talk about your work ) . If you anticipate a question or questions from the audience that you will probably not know how to answer , bring it out in the open as part of your presentation , and say that you are still working to understand that particular part of your project . Some of these things may seem trivial or obvious , but these are probably the most common " mistakes " undergraduate students typically make when giving oral presentations . I say " mistakes " lightly because it is obvious that sometimes the student simply does not get the proper guidance from their advisers , either about their project , or about how to present the work properly , or both . In these cases , of course , acting like you truly love your project may not be possible because it may not be true . But either way , what it boils down to usually , coming back to something Fbio Dias said above , is that at the undergraduate level , the expectation is less on whether the results are impressive , but rather whether you can demonstrate that you are a good researcher , and that you have done the most with the results that you have . Good Luck !
Letters are interesting to write because they still have to be " complete " but the definition of " complete " is different ( and you often ca n't rely on throwing citations at the problem because there may be a limit there too ) . You need someone else to read it . Another PhD student in the group ? A postdoc ? They should read it as a reviewer rather than as a coauthor and point out any glaring omissions . You would of course return the favour at some point .
Since in a recent email your advisor has told you about the health issue , it is perfectly acceptable for you to sympathize/empathize with them and it would not be out of place to ask if you could do anything regarding your work to accommodate them . That said , if you feel uncomfortable raising the issue , you should be able to depend on your advisor being mature enough to tell you what he/she needs in terms of accommodations . If your advisor had not mentioned anything to you and you wish to sympathize/empathize with them , then you need to be more delicate .
The importance of any single metric is binary and its value ( important or not ) depends on the size of the department . If the department is big admissions committees use metrics to weed out candidates . Basically anyone with GPA/GRE below X is triaged ( does n't matter what school you went to , how good your references are , etc ) . Smaller departments generally look at all applications . Once your applications is looked at , it is considered as a whole . There is no formula by which good GRE scores can offset a bad GPA . Obviously a better GPA does n't hurt , but you really want to worry about the things you can control . For example , good research experience tends to trump everything else .
Is this normal or is this something that I should be credited for ? No , it is not normal practice ; yes , you should be credited whenever a result from a paper for which you are a co-author is mentioned . The only exception I can think of is if the paper has several authors and is cited in the style " [ first author ] et al. ( 2014 ) showed that ... " . Even then , one would typically expect the presentation to include a full citation at the end that explicitly mentions your name as a coauthor . Is it typical for someone to contact you before using your research in a presentation ? They do not need to contact you before mentioning your research in the presentation ( and it is not typical for anyone to do such a thing ) , as long as two conditions hold : a. the research that they are going to mention has been published or is otherwise publicly available , and b. they credit you by name in their presentation as I stated above . Is it worth contacting the company about this ? That depends . What are you hoping to achieve by contacting the company ? It seems very difficult to judge from the details you provide whether this was some kind of egregious , intentional misrepresentation by the person in the video , or whether it was an accidental omission due to sloppiness or perhaps not copying correctly the list of authors . If it was the latter , although it is still a bit annoying I would n't bother complaining - at most I would send a friendly note to the presenter to politely call their attention to the fact that I am also a coauthor of the paper they cited , so that they can correct the error the next time they use this presentation . If it was the former and there is a clear intent to deceive or other unethical aspect , I may seriously consider contacting the company to complain .
This kind of questions are often closed due to being a " shopping question . " And yet , I do feel it 's important in faculty 's life . Perhaps you can reword your question so that it 's asking for " What to consider " rather than " Which software to use . " Now onto the question . The answer is " I do n't know . " It 's because the choice of platform can depend on a lot of criteria and not many were presented in the question . What I 'd suggest is to identify the education media person and the instruction designer in your institute and schedule a meeting with him/her . Prior to the meeting , prepare the followings . These are the general information the specialist will need to know : Is it synchronous ( live with real time interaction ) or asynchronous ( not live or only partially live , with more lag time interaction . ) For example , a live lecture that allows people to raise question at the same duration of time is closer to synchronous ; an uploaded video of a past lecture with a discussion board for Q&amp;A is more of an asynchronous design . The more details you can provide to the specialist , the more fitting the solution . Is it closed or open ? Do people need to RSVP and log in with user name or password ? Or is it just a link that anyone can access ? How many participants are you expecting ? Just a ballpark is fine . Do you need onsite AV and technical support ? This has impact on your pricing . But if none of the speakers has experience with technical troubleshooting , I 'd suggest get one at least for the first couple sessions . These are just the works you need to do with the education media person . On your side , there are a lot to think about as well : Online course has very different design concepts . While some of us may think that it 's just an extra camera in the lecture hall but it 's a lot more complicated than that . You 'd have to consider the pacing , consider if micro-lecture is a better alternative , figure out when to let participation or Q&amp;A happen , and design online assessment and evaluation , etc. . Resources are readily available on the Internet and in books . Consult the education media person for details . The management of the class is also different . For synchronous , I 'd suggest have one person do the teaching and one extra person ( could be a TA ) to manage the chat , collect and curate questions for you . It 's often disastrous for the speaker to try jumping between chatting and teaching . Test run , test run , test run , and test run more . If anything , this is the most important key to success . Find some friends and colleagues to join some test sessions . Collect information on their device and make sure there is a good diversity in operation systems , browsers used , microphone and camera models , desktops or tablets , etc. and make sure the system is as versatile and bullet proof as possible . Develop an etiquette/technical support guide and circulate it among the participants or make it available as a download prior to the event . The guide should contain i ) time and date of the event and details on how to log in . Screenshots with captions are great ; ii ) explain how to raise question ( through chat , e-mail , or bulletin board ) ; iii ) explain common etiquette such as mute your microphone when you 're not speaking to avoid audio feedback , etc. .
I had a similar situation , there were a few papers I assisted with as an undergraduate where I was listed in the acknowledgements but was n't listed as an author . Generally , people do n't list those on their CV , simply because it will look odd ... you 'll get a lot of people asking , " why are you listing this if your name is n't on it ? " That said , since it 's your CV , you can list anything you want with the proper commentary . You may consider listing it as : < Citation goes here > Note : I am listed in the acknowledgements section for this paper , as I assisted extensively with data preparation and analysis . Do realize that the fact that your name is n't on the paper will significantly decrease it 's value in your promoting yourself . The more I think about it , it 's probably a bad idea to list it ... I would recommend just listing the work you did in the appropriate section on your CV and leave the paper out .
Submit the course ( or module - ) descriptions for the examination department/office . The target university needs a basis for their decisions to make . A description of the course containing information about the topic ( a syllabus ) , learning goals and skills taught , the workload and the examination conditions , will help to decide whether a course fits into your major or not and if it can be granted with transfer credits and so on .
For figures from your own papers , it would depend on the copyright transfer agreement you ( or the corresponding author ) signed upon publication . However , all copyright agreements I know explicitly authorize reuse of content for academic theses . As an example : the American Chemical Society , which does not leave the authors too many rights , <URL> : Authors may reuse all or part of the Submitted , Accepted or Published Work in a thesis or dissertation that the Author writes and is required to submit to satisfy the criteria of degree-granting institutions . Such reuse is permitted subject to the ACS ' " Ethical Guidelines to Publication of Chemical Research " For figures from others ' papers , a thesis is not very different from any other publication ( see the related <URL> ) . Unless your institution has a specific agreement with publishers ( as MIT seems to have ) , you have to either : ask for permission ; these days , it 's all done online and once you have located the appropriate form for a publisher , you can make your requests and get all the answers the next day rely on fair use in the US , or similar law in other countries ; around me , most people actually do that , either knowingly or just out of ignorance :)
I have heard stories about some ( mostly weak ) young mathematicians include the names of some people ( influential enough ) to facilitate the acceptance of their papers or to help them for employment , grants , etc. . In fact , two years ago , an almost innocent case of this was going to happen to me . In Iran , most departments of mathematics have this ( written or non-written ) rule that a master or a PhD student should have at least one paper with his/her supervisor , otherwise she can not graduate or she misses some points from her thesis grade . I had a master student and she wanted to get the highest grade and therefore she asked me if I allow her to write a weak paper and include my name as a co-author of the paper . I deny it and she missed 1 ( out of 20 ) from her thesis grade . Of course , to compensate the 1 point unfair reduction , I defended her and asked the jury to not reduce any more points from her grade .
I also have a very common name ( usually quoted along the lines of " Smith , J. " ) and despite the fact that I have worked and published with two different institutions there has never been a problem assigning all my papers to me personally ( ORCID and other system let you take your institution ( s ) into account ) . As long as there is n't a person with the same first and last name in your institution ( and even then , it usually a couple of clicks to rectify the situation and I am speaking of someone who had to contend with a Joan/John Smith situation ) . My university makes all researchers from post doc onwards keep a list of their publications on their official university homepage , so even google will associate my publications correctly . So if you come across a paper from my old affiliation you can get my current contact data from this . And honestly most subfields are specialised enough that people roughly know that John Smith at institution A is working on a certain topic ( because that 's what your group does ) and John Smith at institution B will probably not have published a particular paper . If people want to talk to your about your results , they will find you , even with a common name .
end question
start question
Research Plan that works ?
At least for me , writing a research plan was very useful for my actual research . I found this article helpful : <URL> The book " A PhD is not enough " has some good advice for writing research plans as well . The introductory chapters to the book " An Introduction to Scientific Research " by E. Bright Wilson will probably be helpful to you too . Specifically the advice on literature searches is good . Start with general accounts ( encyclopedias or survey articles ) , and then move to research papers . Advice from experts in your field is usually ( but not always ) helpful . Applying new methods to old problems can be fruitful , although in the long run it is better to be problem oriented ; ie to aim to attack specific problems by whatever means necessary . Polya has several books on problem solving that are quite good , but fairly general . " How to Solve It " is definitely worth reading , and " On Mathematical Discovery " is very interesting as well . You should definitely look at the first chapter of " Mathematics and Plausible Reasoning " -- it 's short and free on archive.org . Another general piece of advice when carrying out your plan is to try to make a minimum working example/prototype . Avoid prematurely optimizing and instead cut the shortest path towards something that works . ( Think like this : to get to high ground , always walk in the steepest direction ; to prioritize the steps in your plan , look for the fuzziest parts , or the parts that would kill your argument . ) You 'll probably waste a lot of time and explore a lot of dead ends , although later on that experience might prove useful . If you feel aimless , try to discipline yourself to use a notebook and state your hypothesis explicitly , then record the essential facts of your plan to test your hypothesis/solve your problem etc. . It 's important to record your intentions and try to make your hypotheses explicit , so that you do n't keep exploring the same dead end . Pretend you 're doing lab work , even if you 're not . Anyway , these are a few things that I found helpful from time to time . Good luck ! Keep at it :)
There 's two opposing forces here : You 're probably not doing research if you can say exactly what you are going to do beforehand in the research proposal . At the heart of research is exploration . Hence it is expected that you demonstrate some agency and adapt the research as you explore the topic more . On the other hand , the people who fund you are funding you to work in the area of the proposal . Switching to a completely disconnected topic on a whim is ( generally ) not an option . How far can research deviate from the original research proposal ? This is difficult to give a concrete answer to and it will differ from fund to fund . Most generally , if you can show the funding body a path from what you proposed to what you ended up doing ( i.e. , you can show that your intent was to follow the proposal , but you discovered new evidence that a better alternative was possible and you followed that alternative instead ) , then I think you 're on safe ground . In other cases , it will depend entirely on what your funding body is looking for and how they justify their funds to their bosses . You will have to try understand what the objectives of the funders are : is it publications , creation of a product , teaching and dissemination , contributing towards some high-level national/EU directive , etc. ? Will your new direction likewise satisfy those objectives under what was originally agreed in the proposal ? These are important questions . ( Even if you stuck steadfastly to the topic proposed , groking the motives of your funders and what they will look for during reviews is vital for success . If you understand these motives well enough , then as a side result , you 'll have the answer as to how much deviation is acceptable or even desirable . )
Here is what I think about the topic . Acknowledgements section is indeed an important part of any dissertation , obviously , not from a scientific standpoint , but from an ethical perspective . Even if you have a good memory , I would still suggest to keep track of various contributions that other people made to your research and your overall success during the program . If you do n't want to keep track throughout your program , it is IMHO crucial to make such list before finalizing and submitting your final document to the committee . On the other hand , if your memory is not that great , then keeping track of people 's help during the program is a must . As I also was trying to create a nice acknowledgements section for my dissertation , I have seen and read a wide variety of examples , ranging from quite brief and formal to very personal , which read more like a life story ( while some are interesting , generally , I do n't think you need to strive to make that section so - it should be sincere , cover most of people , which help you appreciate , and nicely written in terms of wording ; however , it is not a novel or , even , a story , so I would n't at all worry about the being interesting aspect ) . I think that both extremes ( too brief/dry &amp; life story ) are not appropriate or good , so I would recommend to write several drafts to create a writeup , nicely balanced in terms of content , people coverage , style and size . Since I mentioned above the size aspect , keep in mind that some universities limit the size of an acknowledgements section ( usually , such limits are spelled out in a Dissertation Guide ) . For example , at my school , that limit was one page . Needless to say that it was quite a challenge to squeeze maximum relevant information and keep the contents/style readable and balanced .
It will be a huge timesaver if you can get lecture notes from someone who has taught the class before . There 's a big difference between understanding the material well enough to solve problems and answer questions and understanding it well enough to find the clearest , most succinct way to present it . If you get someone else 's lecture notes , you will only have to attain the first level of mastery , rather than the second ; this will save you a lot of time . Before the class starts , you should sit down with the syllabus ( presumably you can get one from someone who 's taught it before ; typically , the first time I teach a class , I do n't change much unless I have a good reason to ) and try to understand the structure ( " story arc " ) of the class . What are the big ideas ? For example , in Calculus I , some of these are : limits , derivatives , integrals , applications . That gives you a sense of where you 're going and helps you to know what may be important . Do n't feel like you have to know every little detail perfectly . The stuff that will likely stump you will be the obscure corner cases . The stuff that most of your students will struggle with will be much more basic , like the limit definition of a derivative , and precalc and algebra . If a student asks you a question that you ca n't answer right away , learn to be comfortable saying " that 's a great question " ; it 's a little outside of the scope of this lecture , but I 'd be happy to talk with you about it after class . Thinking on your feet in front of an audience ( especially about unfamiliar material ) can be really tough . Most of the time , you can avoid it . Usually the student will be happy to talk with you after class . The reduced pressure of not being in front of the other students will help you to think more clearly . If you still ca n't answer the question after a reasonable amount of time , say " This is a good question . Let me think about it some more and get back to you in class next time . " At that point , feel free to ask your colleagues . Often one of them will have encountered the question before , and will know the answer off the top of their head . tl ; dnr Get lots of help from colleagues who have taught the class before . Typically , it wo n't take much time from them , but it will save you a lot of time ( later , when roles are reversed , be willing to do the same for someone else ) . You do n't have to be perfect . If you have decent lecture notes , and you really engage with the students and answer their question , you 'll be fine .
In most institutes Masters by Research means they had to take the core courses usual Master students are offered but they also produce a compulsory Masters thesis in order to earn their degree . However , I have that seen in most cases that they have to take lesser number of electives so that they have more time for research . Edit : Also see here : <URL>
I think the best approach is to think of them as two completely separate papers . When you write the second paper you should write it as if you have read but not authored the first . You therefore need to add the necessary background and literature review to make it stand on its own . The reason for this is that anyone who finds your ( second ) paper once published will not necessarily know of the connection , may not have read the first , and will need a reasonable introduction to the subject . So , each paper should be an entity of its own . The only clear case where this may not be necessary is if you publish two papers back to back as part 1 and 2 of a series with the same main title but differing sub-titles . Then it is clear that the papers belong together and you may expect people to note and read both papers to a larger extent .
Your research does n't have less value simply because you uncovered problems broader than ( or different from ) what you chose to focus on . An equal way of stating the outcome is to say that your work has opened a door to at least one promising additional line of research ! We as researchers are facing the unknown ; we necessarily do not know what the results are going to look like ahead of time . Scientifically speaking , as long as the study is well-supported and well-designed , an unexpected outcome is precisely as valuable as a result that looks as expected and/or upholds a hypothesis . Your presentation will be better if it is self-assured . Confidently and straightforwardly , lay out what you did and how you went about it and what you have discovered , and put in a few slides at the end conveying some excitement about the potential inherent in the interesting things that your work is pointing the way towards . Every study has limitations , and good scientific practice is to acknowledge these transparently but not apologetically . No study can do everything . Knowledge is a collaborative effort , and we can build on each other 's findings if we have a good sense of what has been done how . My MA thesis , in retrospect , had a lot of things in it that I now know to have been oversimplifications . I did n't have a full sense of what was going on ; there was so much more to it than that ! But I could n't have gotten here from there . A master 's thesis is often a stepping-stone ; I 'd say that 's both natural and usually inevitable . If you feel as if there are signs of you needing to look beyond the scope of a master 's paper - I spotted some in mine as well ! - that 's what I 'd call a sign that you 're ready for a Ph.D. ( if that is your aim ) .
There are many papers out there that give a new proof of a previously-existing theorem . You can search for " a new proof of " in mathscinet ( or even google ) and find lots of good papers in respectable journals . However , the new proof must provide new insight to be worth publishing . Two proofs can look different but actually be very similar , in the sense that they are relying on the same key ideas . This can be a bit subtle ( and even subjective in edge cases ) , so it 's a good idea if possible to consult with an expert in your field before making your findings public . But if you manage to prove the result in a more elementary way than the original proof , that 's a big point in your favor . It 's always good to know that a result can be proven without appealing to a powerful theorem . If you go in the opposite direction ( e.g. showing that a theorem from the 1950s also follows from Fermat 's Last Theorem ) , you 're less likely to impress people .
First off the fact that one group is dominating will be implicitly understood if you provide a paragraph or two summarizing their work and cite their publications . In such a paragraph you could add words like " ground-breaking " or phrases that describe the dominance of the group on the field . You could for example start the paragraph by saying : " The work concerning risk assessment of [ ... ] has largely been carried out by [ the research group ] ( example citations ) . " ( I hope you see the main idea of my attempt ) Then you follow up on what they have done and cite their work . It is just important to keep the tone as neutral as possible and let the citeable work speak for itself . Spending one or more paragraphs describing the work should be enough to make everyone understand the message .
You ask " In particular , is there evidence that by publishing software alongside research papers means that more people use the methods described in the paper ? " I am not aware of any large scale empirical studies that have assessed this for software at present [ 1 ] however there is anecdotal evidence and related studies looking at the impact of open data . One piece of related anecdotal evidence came from short survey I carried out in 2013 looking for people who had been " scooped " as a result of publishing their code openly ( i.e. someone else had published a paper using that software to get to the same scientific results before the author of the software ) . Whilst there were very few examples of people getting scooped , there were many more examples of researchers who had gotten new collaborations , new citations , and new funding as a result of publishing their code openly . Many said that this was because others were more able to try out the methods because code was available . More convincingly , there have been several good studies looking at the effects on citations ( a proxy for the sort of impact you mention ) from making data openly accessible [ 2-6 ] . Many of the reasons for the data citation benefit discussed in [ 7 ] appear qualitatively to be true for software as well [ 8-9 ] . Finally , in the area of Applied Mathematics , you might like to look at some of the outputs of the ICERM workshop on Reproducibility on Computational and Experimental Mathematics [ 10 ] , as well as some of the publications of the participants . [ 1 ] One of the reasons for this is that up until very recently , it was difficult to conduct such a study - it was difficult to link software to a publication , few authors were publishing code , and it was difficult to data mine journals to assess impact . This is changing , an I expect studies to start emerging based on tools like ContentMine and ScienceToolbox . [ 2 ] Piwowar , Day , Fridsma ( 2007 ) . Sharing Detailed Research Data Is Associated with Increased Citation Rate . PLoS ONE . [ 3 ] Gleditsch NP , Metelits C , Strand H. 2003 . Posting your data : will you be scooped or will you be famous ? International Studies Perspectives 4 ( 1 ) :89 -97 [ 4 ] Pienta AM , Alter GC , Lyle JA . 2010 . The enduring value of social science research : the use and reuse of primary research data . The Organisation , Economics and Policy of Scientific Research Workshop [ 5 ] Henneken EA , Accomazzi A. 2011 . Linking to data - effect on citation rates in astronomy . [ 6 ] Dorch B. 2012 . On the Citation Advantage of linking to data . hprints . [ 7 ] Piwowar H , Vision T. 2013 . Data reuse and the open data citation advantage . PeerJ . PubMed 24109559 [ 8 ] Howison J , Herbsleb , J. 2013 . Incentives and Integration In Scientific Software Production . CSCW 2013 . [ 9 ] Howison J , Bullard J . How is software visible in the scientific literature ? Preprint available from <URL> [ 10 ] " Setting the Default to Reproducible : Reproducibility in Computational and Experimental Mathematics , " ICERM Workshop report , with D. Bailey , J. Borwein , R. LeVeque , W. Rider , and W. Stein .
Well , I find <URL> focusing on eyetracking by using Google and search operators . Of course , you should add some redundant similar terms ( eye-movement , baby , ... ) Notice , there are some patterns : american universities nearly always have edu ( actually it 's even a domain ) in their URL , german univ. uni . So using in google filters out a lot . Non-university institutes like german Max-Planck often have URL patterns too . further add to filter out more useless results add to be sure the site/group is still active and the topic on their agenda . add ( latter being german translation , but afaik nowadays most natural sciences groups in Germany have a english ( &amp; german ) page ) Some research branches also have a online directory , there exist also internet directories like dmoz ( not sure if this stuff is up to date , probably some dead links ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> At least I can say that most research groups in Germany will have a english home page and short summary/research topics/open positions on it . So there should be no general problem to find them by some " serious " googling . But do n't use too specific keywords , " eyetracking on infants " , " dualistic view " is too special imho , use keywords being specific rather to the topic than the exact methodology . They are probably mainly interested in how the visual recognition system adapts and learns over time , this is the bigger thematic picture . You attract master and phd students not by naming a special experimental method , so you will not find these type of keywords often on a group page , where they often try to put in a minimum of time .
Disclaimer : This is somewhat field-dependent . I 'm answering based on what I believe to be the current situation in computer science / related fields . 1 ) Can you claim authorship given the way things have evolved ? Probably not . 2 ) Would it have been a good idea for him to find a way to include you in the research collaboration so that you could get something out of your work ? Yes . The area of academia in which I work ( * ) is structured so as to value ideas over implementation . In practice , that means that it 's not uncommon for people who write large amounts of code for a project to get little credit for it , which seems inherently unjust . The way sensible people usually handle this is to make sure that people who do a lot of implementation work are given an opportunity to contribute scientifically over and above that - that allows them to justify their authorship in scientific terms , regardless of the fact that they also made significant non-scientific contributions to the overall project . It 's certainly possible to take advantage of implementers by not doing this , but people who do that tend to find themselves doing the implementation work themselves . Bottom line : He should have had the common sense to include you in the scientific collaboration , and if he did n't have that common sense then his supervisor should have suggested it . As an aside , I would view the situation somewhat differently if you already had a publication as a result of your work . In that case , you 've already got the credit for working on the framework , and there 's less of a moral obligation to include you in the new collaboration : instead , they can simply cite you . I 'm certainly not of the view that writing a framework entitles you to be involved in every paper that is ever built on top of that framework - indeed , I 've written frameworks that other people have continued to use for later research , and I would n't expect to be involved with the papers in question . ( * ) As pointed out in the comments , this may not be the case in other fields .
Scholar.Google.com , IEEE , and ACM After every major conference in your field . See 1 , find a paper , then follow its references and the papers that cite it . Repeat .
The tools you state are prototypes developed by the authors . They may not always have enough rank to be easily Googled , so the best place to search for them would be the respective institution sites and author sites . For instance , MAPO can be found in the corresponding author <URL> ( although you might need his consent to access it ) . MICA is available <URL> with copyright by Carnegie Mellon University . If that does n't work , the best thing to do would be to mail the corresponding author requesting the required access to the software .
For your CV , do n't focus on the fact that you quit the other program , but that you attended it for one term . As such , it would fit best in the section where you list your past education . Definitely send your transcript , because it shows that you achieved some things during that term , and will also count into the evaluation of your current knowledge . The more delicate aspect is of course how to explain your quitting without full completion of the other program . However , I do n't think that it will be a very critical aspect of your application . Such switches happen a lot , for various good reasons , and reviewers of your application will not automatically view it as negative if you do n't push them in that direction . If you have good explanations for switching the program , you can put it in a motivation letter . For example , how , during the other program , you discovered that the program you are applying to know fits much better to your interests and skills . The CV would n't be be a good place for such reasons . If you ca n't offer an explanation that gives your application a bonus point , do n't try to discuss around it in your application documents . But be prepared for questions in this direction in a potential interview .
I had an experience with along these lines from the other side recently , working with a student to write a plan for the research that he would be doing under me during a three-month visit . We had to be ultra-specific in order to meet visa requirements , but the project had a lot of uncertainties in it . In fact , however , the challenge of writing a specific research statement was quite useful for making sure we thought a bit more in advance and were able to get a fast start once my student arrived . I would recommend getting in touch with the person that you are expected be working with abroad , and set up a time to talk ( Skype , Gchat , whatever ) about some more specific goals . Some good examples of starting points for a discussion : Are there particular types of analysis technique that are likely to be used ? Are there particular pieces of software that are likely to be good test cases ? What is the goal ? Do you want to find security issues , bugs , inefficiencies , usability , portability , robustness , something else ? Or are you just trying to exercise the scalability of the techniques ? What are some intermediate checkpoints that you can use to know if you are making progress towards your thesis ? What should be done in 1 month ? 3 months ? 6 months ? It 's OK if the answers change while you 're there . Everybody understands that research is research and that things may change . But going in with a concrete plan will help a lot in making good use of your time , in understanding whether something has changed , and if so what you want to do about it . And if the potential supervisor abroad ca n't make time for a meeting with you ? Then maybe you should rethink whether this would be the right place to go ...
<URL> offers this . To use this feature , you are required to register and sign in to your account . Once you are logged in , find the Calls for Papers ( CFPs ) you are interested in and choose " Add to my list " . ( You can add multiple CFPs at a time if they appear in the same search results or " recent CFPs " list ) . Then , from the sidebar , choose " My list " or " Timeline " to see all the deadlines for the conferences you have selected in your preferred format . Timeline view is pretty nice ; it shows you the registration , submission , notification , and camera-ready deadlines , as well as the dates of the actual conference . Here is a screenshot : However , WifiCFP relies on user-submitted content ( for both original CFP submissions , and updates e.g. , for deadline extensions ) . So the usefulness of this for you will depend on how active people in your field are on WikiCFP .
Speaking as someone in field not too far from yours : sure , it would help if you had done all of the stuff you 've listed and written a paper about it . But having a bunch of conference presentations under your belt ( oral and posters ) is still pretty impressive ; and there are many applicants to Ph.D. programs without any research experience at all . The fact that you 've done research , and that your advisor thought it was worth presenting at multiple conferences , is a pretty big item in your favor . Oh , and it should go without saying that this professor should be one of your recommenders ( absent any major falling-out or other complicating circumstances . )
Because PubMed is about biomedical literature and life science journals . Things are blurry , however , because of two factors : Obviously , there is no strict definition of what is ( or is not ) biomedicine . PubMed does not select " article by article " , but has a list of indexed journals , from which all papers are indexed . Yet , a single journal 's scope can be very varied . Combine the two , and you get the idea that there is a lot of variability in whether an article on a given topic is published . For example , my own research field is materials chemistry , and about two-thirds of my papers appear to be indexed in PubMed : probably because those were published in generic chemistry journals , which also happen to publish some papers of relevant to life science .
This will all become much clearer if you shift your perspective away from paraphrasing and towards giving a context for your own work . Start by pretending that the other paper does n't exist , and asking : " What does the reader of my work need to know about this concept ? " When you know that , and you know what level of detail you want to go into , then you can look to the other paper ( and other things as well , I hope ! ) as a source of information to help you build your discussion of the context of your work . A useful phrase at this point is : " A thorough discussion of [ subject ] can be found in [ review paper ] . " Then you can explain your view of the material , which the reader will understand is heavily influenced by the nice review paper you 've just cited . In digesting the review to produce your own explanation , you will need to choose what you think are the important points for understanding the context of your work , and the key references supporting those points will be the ones that you should cite : as these references are the ones that were important for your understanding , so too should they be for your readers .
end question
start question
How to obtain number of publications by year on a given subject ?
ISI Journal Citation Reports ISI Journal citation reports might give you some useful information ( your university may have a subscription ) . It allows you to browse citation reports by subject category ( i.e. , discipline ) . It includes things like impact factor , total counted citations , total articles in the focal year . You can then click " view journal summary list " which will give you an overview . For example , here is sample output for psychology in the 2013 JCR : Of course , this only includes articles in journals indexed by ISI . Publish or Perish Software More generally , you might want to check out <URL> . It is free software for Windows and OSX that provides a way of searching Google Scholar particularly suited to bibliometric analysis .
The question is not answerable at this level of abstraction , because grad school admission is not decided on the basis of easily described rules . If you 're a coauthor on a brilliant and important paper , you may still be rejected if the committee doubts you were a major contributor to the paper . On the other hand , some applicants with no publications at all may be accepted . As a general rule , nobody on the committee will read the paper itself . That would be both time-consuming and unlikely to be fruitful , since the committee probably does n't even have an expert in this specific area . They may get a little information from the abstract or your personal statement , but everything else they know about the paper will come from your letters of recommendation . The letters need to indicate why this paper should help your case for admission . Specifically , they need to explain why the paper is interesting , what you contributed to it if you are not the only author , and why your work was impressive . This task will be easier if the paper is really good , and that 's correlated with being published in a top journal , but this is not really necessary . For example , if an undergraduate makes a major contribution to a solid but not exceptional research paper , then that could mean a lot , even if the paper does n't get accepted to a leading journal . Of course the paper needs to meet at least some standards - publishing in a junk journal or vanity press does n't count . However , the most important issue is demonstrating that you can carry out good research , not getting your name in a prestigious venue .
I would pick a major that maximizes your future options . Not necessarily one that will get you a job , but one that gives you a strong foundation so it 's easy to pick up knowledge of other subjects . One good major for this is math . Once you have mathematical sophistication it 's a lot easier to learn other fields , like physics , engineering , computer science etc. . In general , I think it 's a lot easier to switch from math to a more applied field than it would be to switch from an applied field to math . ( Personally I majored in math , and then switched to computer science , which is another major I highly endorse . ) Besides , it is a very fun major . At any reputable university the homework assignments require original thought and no two problems are the same . In terms of career options , most math majors I knew either ( 1 ) went for their PhDs ( 2 ) became traders/took other jobs in the financial sector ( 3 ) branched into software engineering or data science .
Since I do much of my work by video link , I have some experience with the problems of conducting business over video-conference . For permission , in universities it will generally be fine as long as you are n't disrupting the work of others . If there is any rule regulating video , you should be aware of it ( e.g. , some non-university research institutions do n't allow video-conference at all , and make very certain their researchers know ) . For quality , I would guess that their actual requirement is not HD , but that they want to be able to read your expression as you talk . Here , the primary limitation is not your camera , but your network connection . The built-in camera for your computer or any cheap webcam will generally produce much higher quality video than you can transmit effectively . Things to do to ensure a good connection : Use a wired link ( e.g. , EtherNet ) rather than wireless if possible , as your connection is likely to be better and more stable . Use headphones and a microphone ( cheap earbuds with a built-in mike will do ) : the headphones will prevent echo from your speakers , and the microphone ensures consistent pickup of your voice . Different software provides different quality tradeoffs optimal for different connections : Professional videoconferencing hardware ( e.g. , PolyCom ) , is nice if your institution has a room and you can get help using it . Its learning curve is a pain , and it 's not any better quality than ... High-end videoconferencing software ( I 've had good experience with <URL> ) , provides a fantastic quality connection but has brutal demands for bandwidth and processor power . If I use it for more than ~ 2 hours on my laptop , it overheats . Note that you do n't have to buy this software : generally , only the meeting organizer needs to , and you can connect via a web link that they send you . Skype is good for mid-grade connections : it provides nice video when given a consistently good link , but degrades badly if the link is inconsistent . Google Hangouts is good for low-grace connections : its video quality is never particularly good , but it will get something through . The most important thing is the high-bandwidth link : with a good enough link , Skype is generally sufficient within a continent . For very long distance connections ( where the limitation is lag and undersea cables ) you may want to use higher grade software . If you ca n't get access to a place that gives a strong connection , arrange the connection for a time when you are likely to have little competition with others for bandwidth . Early morning is generally best : during the day work activities consume bandwidth , and in the evening people are watching video .
How mathematicians collaborate depends ( among other things ) on their career stage . At the student level , the most common kind of collaboration could be more accurately described as a form of mentorship : you are working with a more senior guide , and that they mean to help you with your work and professional development is a key feature . This is different from the kind of collaboration you do ( in most cases ) one you get past the student / postdoc stage . At that point it is fair and only natural for someone who is considering collaborating with you to ask " What 's in it for me ? " The path of most graduate students is one of decreasing collaboration of the mentorship type ( in math , mentorship collaborations do not always result in the mentor being the coauthor , so e.g. it is not necessarily viewed as inconsistent for an advisor to talk about " our work " when the final product is a paper written only by the student ) and increasing independence from your mentors . Your trajectory sounds a bit different in that you already have solo papers ( although , as in the previous parenthetical , that may not describe the whole story ) . Another feature of student research -- the key feature , really -- is that whether your advisor is joining you in doing the mathematics or not , she is supposed to be involved in helping you choose problems to work on that she finds , by virtue of her greater knowledge / experience / cultural familiarity / political savvy , to be especially worthwhile and significant . A student who works on a problem for a while with no significant progress raises a little red flag in my head . One must ask : why are you not working solely on problems that either you know you are making progress on or your advisor is there to help you make progress on ? In our department there is absolutely no one interested in that subject . Another little red flag . What you are doing is not inherently bad but seems more risky than normal . I fear you are getting less than the standard amount of " mentorship collaboration " and I think you should consider moving somewhere else ( as a student , or possibly graduating ASAP and taking a postdoc ) where you can benefit from that . Anyway , there is a different kind of mathematical collaboration . ( By the way , @Significance has done a good job of describing it in her answer . But I want to write as a mathematician and in some more detail . ) If you want to start a collaboration with someone of this other sort , then typically this is founded on either significantly overlapping research interests or complementary skill sets , approaches and/or partial results . Maybe while reading a draft of a paper you see how to strengthen one of the results . In this case you can ( perhaps ) get added as a coauthor on a later draft , and especially if you are joining more than one other author this can be a good way to piggyback onto a longer term collaboration already in progress . <URL> is an example of mine . Maybe you have a draft of a paper and you see that your Theorem 2 is a variant of their Theorem 5 , so joining forces is a natural choice , if only for reasons of smoothing out the publication process . <URL> is an example of such a collaboration of my own , in which we each had overlapping manuscripts that we combined . I was happy with the resulting paper , which is a little more than the sum of its parts , and remain on good terms with the coauthor , but that was the extent of the collaboration . Maybe you discover that someone whom you previously did not know ( e.g. a recent PhD ) is working in the same area as you , or even on the same problem . Learning that someone else has been working on the same problem as you and that you each have partial results which have been obtained using ( even mildly ) different ideas and techniques can be immensely helpful . If each person 's perspective is rich enough so that the other can not readily incorporate it just by reading the other 's work , then this is often the beginning of a very fruitful collaboration . <URL> is an example of mine . Or maybe you run into " someone new " and discover that you both have aspirations to work on the same thing , and though you do n't have finished product , you each like the sound of the other 's ideas and think it will be better to work together . This is one of the purer forms of collaboration , but it seems to require a rather fortuitous set of circumstances . <URL> is an example of mine . Maybe you have a really attractive half of a result , and you 're looking for someone with distinctly complementary skills and/or results to form an attractive whole . Again , this can be hard to swing , but it 's satisfying when it works . <URL> is an example of mine . In this case , I had 2/3 of a new proof of a theorem , so I wrote a mass email to my own mathematics department asking if everyone could help me out . One of the other students in the department wrote back within a few weeks with an answer . I added a lot of other material , wrote the en
No , it 's by no means necessary to specialise on one topic for all your papers , and many people do n't . You do make it harder for yourself when you do n't , though . Going into a new topic requires familiarity with a new area of cutting-edge research , learning which publication ( s ) to target , and maybe learning new methods . And one of things I find most time-consuming is that you have to collect a new set of references . Once you 've published within one topic , it 's like you 've laid down foundations in your literature review that you can build on again and again . But when you move to a new topic , you have to lay down new foundations : instead of simply updating your last literature review , you have to start rebuilding the foundations from a much smaller base . So you do find the really prolific people , who churn out maybe a dozen papers a year or more , have often stuck to a very narrow topic , and can get closer to staying on top of all the relevant literature .
If you are an <URL> user , you can use the <URL> package . This package allows you to analyze data from Google Scholar and obtain citations , publication list and even perform predictions of the h-index . An example R code :
The first question is why you want the rights . For example , if you are working on something with serious commercial applications and hope to start a company or sell the technology , then this is a very serious issue . The first step is hiring a lawyer , who can advise you on precisely which rights you and the university currently hold , and who can help you negotiate with the university regarding commercialization . On the other hand , most student projects are of no commercial value . If you just want to display your work online ( to help build a portfolio for job applications and in case this work is useful for someone else ) , then it 's probably easier . It may depend on the university , but presumably they do n't want to limit the dissemination of student projects , so if you ask them I bet they 'll grant permission . You should think about exactly what you want to provide and under what sort of license ( for example , if you put code on the web , nobody 's allowed to use it unless you license that ) . I imagine the university would be happy with some sort of Creative Commons license . I 'd recommend being very clear and straightforward when asking , to avoid raising suspicions that you are trying to trick them into giving up the rights to valuable technology .
How to present this information may depend on your field . In mathematics , special issues are uncommon , and they carry no additional prestige . ( A special issue might attract stronger papers than usual , or it might be forced to accept weaker papers due to an insufficient supply of thematically appropriate submissions . ) On the other hand , in computer science particularly strong conference papers are sometimes invited to special issues of journals . You should emphasize the special issue on your CV only if this is a widely recognized concept in your field and it is generally considered prestigious . I 'd recommend listing papers in special issues together with other papers ( but with a special indication if appropriate ) , rather than in their own section . If you can give a short but compelling description ( e.g. , the program committee invited the top 30 % of the papers at Conference X to the special issue ) , that could help people from other fields make sense of the designation . This can be valuable in both hiring and tenure cases .
The SAT/ACT are there really to quantify if your abilities in the subjects tested are to-par with what you 'll need to succeed generally in college . It also gives the college a means to compare individuals at a national level . The GRE itself is technically supposed to measure how your undergraduate studies have progressed your academic ability as a preparation for graduate school , but institutions vary widely in their consideration of GRE scores in their admissions process . It could just be a check mark , but it could also be integral to the selection process . Many graduate programs at my institution require nothing but the general GRE score to exceed 1000 in total , and selections are influenced much more by letters of recommendation , GPA , statement of purpose and prior research experience . Of course , a particularly low GRE score could have a negative effect on your application , much like a low SAT/ACT can impact college admissions . If they want your performance on the GRE subject test in math for a math Ph.D. , it may be reasonable that they 're going to scrutinize that score more than the general exam . But it 's really up to the graduate admissions staff who oversee the application .
You can do this : " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] anaylsed the works of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] using some_method and found that their_conclusion . However the evidence can also be interpreted to show your_conclusion . or this " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] states ' direct quote of the thesis ' in their analysis of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] . " Either way you need to make it obvious that the conclusions are drawn from someone else 's work , and that the references are only those required to support the points and arguments that you are making . As @ff524 said this is your theses for your research project , so you are going to have to find , evaluate , discuss and defend your sources .
In evaluating tenure track candidates in mathematics , everyone is paying very close attention to the year of the PhD . This is because you are hiring candidates not primarily based on their current position but on their perceived trajectory : you want to hire the gal or guy who will be a research star five or ten years down the line . ( At Harvard , Princeton and a few other places , they want to hire the person who 's a research superduperstar right now . But they would only hire someone young if they truly thought that their present accomplishments were tops on a worldwide scale . Anyway , this is quite an exceptional case ... ) Beyond that , it 's all arguable , and the arguments have a strange way of favoring the candidate in one 's field , who one knows / wants to work with anyway ... In all seriousness , it 's really not clear . When I evaluate tenure-track candidates I look at their productivity both in an absolute sense -- i.e. , total output -- and in a relative sense -- i.e. , rate of production . The person who is two years out and has eight papers of course looks better to me than the person who is four years out and has eight papers . They also look better to me than the person who is four years out and has ten papers ( assuming that the papers and the fields are comparable , which they may not be ) . But the person who is two years out , has three papers , two of which are amazing and joint with their PhD advisor and the other one is really strong too but seems roughly similar ? Ideally you 'd like to see a few more data points , but if you really think you could grab them right now ... At a certain point it becomes openly game-theoretic . One thing I 'll say is that a greater percentage of top candidates are slightly older than the " standard efficient route " would predict . A lot of people get their PhD in math in their late 20 's , and if you 're especially sharp , went to the right places , and did n't mess around you could certainly get your PhD by 25 or so . You might think that the belles of the ball are the candidates who got their PhDs at 25 . And some of them are , but for each of those there are a couple more who are really strong but somehow managed to get their PhD past the age of 30 , either by transferring from a foreign country , doing military service , or simply spending six-seven years in grad school ( and writing a very strong thesis ) . Moreover , there are a very small number of postdoc ( often called " X Assistant Professor " ) positions at very prestigious places that last for longer than three years . If you can spend more than three years in one top postdoc , then you have received the advantage of an essentially ideal environment for maximizing your research productivity , and thus it should not be too surprising that a lot of these people go on to very good jobs . But if instead of spending five years in one postdoc you spend five years in three postdocs , that 's much less auspicious : though there are exceptions , most people can only spin the wheel so many times before they cash out with whatever they can get ( and we hirers know that , having in many cases been there ) .
I think what you are asking can be carried out using Web of Science . I used address == " Canada " for the past 5 years , and immediately had published records for 241 , 711 articles ! You can ask for a citation report , which provides the information that Scimago has at the top . I think the issue you 'll face is the sheer volume of data you 're asking for . Even limiting the category to " ecology " ( my field ) yields over 3000 articles . Of course , this answer wo n't be much use if your university does n't have access to WoS . The other thought I had was using Harzing 's Publish or Perish ( http://www.harzing.com/index.htm ) which uses Google Scholar data . I tried a direct google scholar search , but ca n't immediately see how to limit it to articles published by people in the country as opposed to being about the country . I had n't heard of Microsoft Academic Search ( see comment by Gopi ) - so I had a look . The short answer is yes , it will show you publications by geographic region , but you have to go in by institution . You can get a google scholar like list of papers - and export those in various formats , but I only found the export option at the level of individual author . For example , Universit du Burundi has 16 publications by 5 authors , with an H-index of 4 . Pretty cool map though .
You do n't typically cite material that helps you understand a topic . You cite material that you explicitly use in a paper . So source books like a C++ book do n't need to be cited unless you 're using an unusual and explicit construction mentioned in one of those books . For example , there 's a technique to draw a geometric object using GPUs that was first mentioned in an graphics programming textbook : people using the technique will cite that textbook . Wikipedia is not supposed to be a repository of original material , so if you found something on wikipedia then there 's likely to be an original source that Wikipedia should cite and that you should as well ( once you verify it ) . For a website it 's a similar principle . If the website contains code that you 're using , then cite it ( or better yet , cite the associated material that the code authors might suggest you cite instead ) . But if the website merely contains expository material that helps understanding , then you do n't cite it .
Basically because schooling is the inverse of farming . That is : Historically farming and feeding the family ( and community ) took precedence over all other considerations . This is primarily a job that takes place through the spring , summer , and fall -- with little or no activity possible in the winter . Therefore in most cultures the original calendar year starts in the winter and so spans one farming cycle , i.e. , spring-summer-fall ( in the original Roman calendar , the winter period did n't even have assigned months ! ) . When schooling historically started to be of some value , it came secondary to farming , and occurred only as farming allows . So the winter is an excellent time for it , because no useful farming can be done . On the other hand , the harvest season , around August-September , is the busiest time for farming , and critical in traditional communities to have " all hands on deck " for that work , and thus schooling would not occur at that time . And therefore the main school schedule would begin after the fall harvest , and run through to the summer of the next year . In short , the fact that schooling and farming have an inverse schedule is not too surprising , because traditionally the former only occurred in the time not being used for the latter . Having grown up on a farm in the U.S. in the 1970 's , I still experienced some tension between my family and school , because I would need to be out of school for about a week in September for a particular job that we were expected to do with our livestock at that time .
Look at all the application rules and guidelines . Unless the registration/application is specifically described as first-come first-served ( which would be unusual ) , the date of submission does n't matter as long as the submission is complete before the deadline .
ISI Journal Citation Reports ISI Journal citation reports might give you some useful information ( your university may have a subscription ) . It allows you to browse citation reports by subject category ( i.e. , discipline ) . It includes things like impact factor , total counted citations , total articles in the focal year . You can then click " view journal summary list " which will give you an overview . For example , here is sample output for psychology in the 2013 JCR : Of course , this only includes articles in journals indexed by ISI . Publish or Perish Software More generally , you might want to check out <URL> . It is free software for Windows and OSX that provides a way of searching Google Scholar particularly suited to bibliometric analysis .
I started with my PhD two years ago , and I understand what you 're asking . There is large number of things you want to consider before enrolling in PhD , I 'll try to summarize my experience and some advises . Bottom line , when applying to PhD you want to make sure that you have these things covered : Clear understanding of what your future research will be . When you start working on your studies , passing exams ( in case you have formal exams as I do ) you 'll want to link these subjects to your main research as much as possible . Make sure you found mentor . I guess this will be professor who offer you PhD , but it can vary depending on field of studies . Check options of scholarship , since PhD studies and research can be quite expensive , depending on your area . Interesting resources and links related to this subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> < -- check this one <URL> < -- Nice checklist Related to funding/scholarships , inside a site findaphd there are 2 sections to be considered : <URL> <URL> Now , about more important matter - choosing good PhD subject , mentor and defining a hypothesis . My biggest challenge was finding out what my specific subject will be ( and what domain will it be applied to ) , cause every mentor expect you to have idea what you want to do . If you try to simply " Google it " it wo n't be of much use . Few approaches helped me here : Open account on <URL> , publish some of your earlier papers and works . After that connect to a people with a same research interests as yours and read their papers and current issues . You 'll be surprised what you 'll find after just couple of days . When you search for books use <URL> instead of simple Google , you 'll find lots of interesting papers on your subject probably . Try to find " problems " , cause your future work MUST provide new benefit , you must solve problem . In order to solve it , you 'll first read about current state of that problem . To summarize it , these are steps you probably want to take : Define your field of research Define domain and mentor Find scholarship module Open account on Academia.edu and upload your papers Research Academia.edu and Google Scholar for issues and opportunities Define hypothesis and general idea for your future PhD Prepare everything in nice documentation and enroll All best ,
" in-house " program is the term I always use myself and see in other people 's papers . In the corporate context , <URL> defines it as In-house software is a software that is produced by a corporate entity for purpose of using it within the organization . <URL> in an academic context Energy minimization is done with yammp , an in-house molecular mechanics package . <URL> All analyses were done with a battery of in-house codes and external analytical tools . I would n't say " in-house " strictly means " the source code is private " . I have sometimes seen people use " in-house " to mean " code our own research group wrote and uses , but which we also make available as open-source code " . But if I see a sentence in an article like " All analysis was performed using in-house code " , and no reference , then I read it as " We used some code we wrote ourselves which we have n't published anywhere " , which sounds like what you want .
This really depends on what kind of U-turn you want to make and what kind of additional resources you avail yourself of . In this day and age , because we have access to so many resources ( from university extension courses to online classes to self study via Youtube and the WWW ) , a dedicated student can build their skills in a field not necessarily related to their undergraduate degree . That said , it depends what kind of U-turn you want to make . To pick up your example , if you have a BA in Art History and you want to get an MS in Physics , I doubt that any serious program is going to let you waltz right in . However , if you took a series of courses through a university extension program , or , perhaps , even online , that covered the terrain of an undergraduate physics program -- and if you also demonstrated your competence and interest in the field through an independent research program , you would probably be able to find a program somewhere . On the other hand , if you have a BS is a technical field and you want to get an MA , programs are usually more accommodating . In my field ( politics and policy ) , students with an undergraduate BS can often add substantial value because they have an in-depth understanding of math and programming that allows them to gain more traction when analyzing research questions using quantitative methods . In either case , it will greatly improve your chances of admission if you can articulate why you want to make the U-turn and also explain how your particular path adds value to the program you are applying to . If you find a school and a program that excites you , try contacting some of the professors at the program and see if you can meet or talk with them . During the conversation , you can make the case why you want to move into their field and ask them how you can best prepare yourself . " This above all ; to thine own self be true " -- W. Shakespeare
end question
start question
What happens in a thesis defense when the non-committee members leave the room ?
I do n't think there is any universal answer to this question . I just defended about 8 hours ago , in my case there was a pre-defense and a defense . The pre-defense in our program tells the student what needs to be done to successfully finish the program , the actual public defense is largely ceremonial . When I met in private with the committee they just shook my hand and that was the end of it . I am aware of other defenses , where there is an oral exam after the non-committee members exit the room . But , from what I have been told the questions in this exam are largely for clarification , and to determine what needs to be done to graduate . I 'm sure some others can clarify , but usually your dissertation advisor has your back , and you have already done the work at that point . So the defense is more of a chance for you to share your work , than a second order comprehensive exam . It really depends on your country , institution , department , and program .
While I agree that it would be OK to open a pdf of the thesis to show a specific part as an answer to a question I would like to add : Opening up the thesis and show something in addition to the slides in the middle of the talk would show that the talk was not well prepared . So do n't do that and prepare your talk such that this will not be necessary . Having answers and arguments to questions ready without going to the thesis would appear better . Of course , nobody expects you to know every word from your thesis but it is expected that you know all results of your thesis and also all your arguments . Opening the thesis when a question like " on page X in Theorem Y you state that ... " comes is totally OK . Especially , since this gives the rest of the audience the chance to follow the discussion . But finally : It 's a thesis defense . It usually not an event where anybody fails terribly . If you know what you have written about and know what you are talking about nothing bad will happen .
In the areas in which I work , there are no formal rules and it is left up to the author when to separate an equation and when to embed it in the text . When I am writing , I find that there are three fairly straightforward principles that work well for me in determining whether an equation ( or other mathematical statement ) deserves its own line or can be inline with the text : Will I need to refer to the equation elsewhere ? If so , it needs its own line , and equation numbering as well . Is it more than ~ 1/3 of a line long ? Anything so long that it is likely to get broken across lines and otherwise be a typographical mess should be pulled out onto its own line . Numbering is not required . Do I want the reader to " pause " and contemplate the equation , or do I want it to " flow " as part of the sentence encompassing it ? This last needs a little bit more explanation ... let 's elaborate on one of the examples from the original question . If I write the sentence this way : We know that the identity a ^ 2 + b ^ 2 = c ^ 2 holds true if the system is in condition X. then the equation should be inline , because the sentence is really about condition X , rather than about the equation . If , on the other hand , the reader 's attention should be directed to the equation , then it is better to use something like the following form , with the equation on its own line : We know that if the system is in condition X , then the following identity holds : a ^ 2 + b ^ 2 = c ^ 2 Note : these principles reduce to a similar effect as the style guide given by @silvado
One of the general prerequisites in this day and age for a faculty appointment is an earned ( as opposed to honorary ) PhD from a ( typically accredited ) degree-granting institution . Consequently , asking to see either a PhD thesis , a transcript , or the degree certificate is would be ways of ascertaining that you do , in fact , have a valid degree . This by no means implies that only your PhD matters in the hiring process ; just that it 's part of the process to ensure you 're eligible . I would n't read too much into this beyond that .
My answer , item by item : I think that there is a difference if this is yet another postdoc or your only postdoc . But most important , we should pay attention to the ratio postdoc/permanent researchers . If the ratio is low ( few postdoc , lot of permanent researchers ) , you can choose to work with " junior " postdoc ( = someone not completely capable for working alone ) , while if the ratio is high , you need postdoc that are in fact already at the level of an assistant prof. But at some point I think we must ask ourselves if we always need one more postdoc . I guess this will depend on the field . In theoretical fields , when we hire a postdoc , this is to work with him . In some more practical fields , we tend to hire postdoc to make them working for us . The two cases are different : in the first case we need someone that will have ultimately an academic position , in the latter we need someone for coding , experimenting , etc. . Personally , I am not interested in the letters . I ask for references and I take my phone to know more about the candidate . Letters are always telling that the candidate is great , even if this is not completely true . I ask the candidate his/her papers , even those unpublished , and I read them . Then I contact some of the other authors to know more about who done what . Clearly yes . A postdoc is a researcher , I think that the way of working is very different : you can spend a lot of time without being " productive " when you are a postdoc , which is not the case in industry . This can be depressing , so we have to make sure that a postdoc ( which has less guidance than a PhD student ) can handle that .
The first thing I would do is to ask the committee chair what are my rights and responsibilities as an advisory member . In short , what is it expected from me . I guess I would be expected to ask questions but I will not participate on the final decision of the defence . Participation in a PhD defence committee seems to me as a good opportunity to learn critical thinking about research . The thinking every researcher should apply on his/her own work . Therefore , as a preparation I would recommend : ( as you mentioned ) Carefully read the dissertation and if you find something which is not clear to you even after several readings , ask about it look at some of the references you find interesting and try to ask yourself : " Is this reference appropriate here ? Why ? " in case some formulas or computations are present , you can try to reach the same result as the PhD candidate if you are interested in methodology you can ask the candidate why he/she used that particular method to do more , you can try to find another works on the same topic , read them and compare them with the dissertation as it is always good for discussion to have more information about the topic In case of public PhD defence , the audience can be very broad from family members who do not know what is the research about to an expert from another department who came to rise his/her ego by asking non-answerable questions . Here , the question depends on the person who is asking . No background knowledge is expected here and one should not feel restricted by the circumstances . My personal opinion is that one can ask really about anything as far as his/her intentions are good . If the question is irrelevant the PhD candidate or one of the committee should kindly explain why .
Honesty is the best way . When you admit a student , one of the things you dread is if you find out someone is not what you thought . The issue is not easy to deal with of course . If you think someone has a weakness , it should be mentioned . The first thing I think one can do is to point out that it is ones own opinion and possibly also describe the circumstances for why the weakness has become evident . The main point is provide the recipient of the information with as much information as possible to make a well-founded decision . After all , a persons positive traits are easy to describe and it is only the negative that cause problems . One aspect that weighs heavily is if you would take on the person yourself , and if so , would you then deal with the weakness in some way ? Provide possible solutions . If a candidate has a weakness that you think may affect the persons ability to be considered , you should probably bring it up with the person . This can of course be very difficult and may result in bitter feelings but the question is , are the weaknesses something that can be compensated ? If the person does not know about them , then the situation will seem inexplicable when he/she gets a rejection . A constructive discussion may make it possible to elaborate more in a letter to defuse the negative aspects . In the end , writing negative aspects about a person is very difficult but it is also vital that a letter of recommendation has value . You may not be the only person writing a letter so the picture you provide may be one of many that has to be weighed in at the other end . If the person ends up not being appointed , you can not take it personally as long as you have tried to provide an as objective appraisal as possible and that includes both positives and negatives . I have included what I sometimes have thought were damaging ( but true ) comments in letters and found the person was appointed despite them . I have then carefully explained why I think the way I do and tried to see how the negatives could possible be worked around . I have never written a letter where I had to just say , do n't employ this person . I have then avoided the task altogether . So , in summary , be honest , be objective , be constructive , and the opinion will be much valued by whoever reads your letter .
None . Outside/commercial email addresses are more likely to be permanent than academic ones , since people change jobs all the time . I think that a Gmail or Yahoo address is fine , and I rarely look at them when reviewing . Some venues use double-blind reviewing , so the reviewers wo n't know your email address or affiliation anyway .
If a graphic clearly gets across the message then why not use it ? Just check what the regulations specify though , To elaborate a bit more you need to think about what the introduction is for . If it is intended as an executive summary then a diagram that summarises the work could be very effective . If however it is setting the context of the work then I find it difficult to see how a diagram would help .
This answer relates to my field ( business ) and it might be different for other fields . The guideline I have always followed , and recommend to all of my students , is that you should consider the overall " flow " of the document . That is , if you are discussing the results and what is important is the results , then focus on the results . Of course , the methodology would be included but any kind of back-story would not belong in the text because it would distract from what you are really trying to communicate . You want to avoid distraction to keep the reader 's mind on topic and that is why we have appendixes . The back-story may , or may not , belong in the appendix . You should not assume that anything that does not go in the body goes in the appendix . Some information simply does not belong there at all ( for example , your musings about the secret connections between Plato 's early work and the shape of a doughnut ) . The only things which should appear in the appendix are things which are referenced in the main text . If there was no easy place to refer to it in the main text , that is a sign that you should not put it in the appendix either .
I do n't think there is any universal answer to this question . I just defended about 8 hours ago , in my case there was a pre-defense and a defense . The pre-defense in our program tells the student what needs to be done to successfully finish the program , the actual public defense is largely ceremonial . When I met in private with the committee they just shook my hand and that was the end of it . I am aware of other defenses , where there is an oral exam after the non-committee members exit the room . But , from what I have been told the questions in this exam are largely for clarification , and to determine what needs to be done to graduate . I 'm sure some others can clarify , but usually your dissertation advisor has your back , and you have already done the work at that point . So the defense is more of a chance for you to share your work , than a second order comprehensive exam . It really depends on your country , institution , department , and program .
When I get an invitation to contribute a book chapter ( or conference paper in an invited session ) , I usually ask myself the following questions : Can I have a reasonable contribution ready for the proposed submission deadline ? Is the venue I am invited to a good fit and does it provide the best possible visibility for my contribution ? Do I want to invite the person inviting me to similar occasions in the future ? Ideally , you should be able to answer at least questions 1 and 2 with " yes " before accepting the invitation . If your answer to question 2 would be " no " , it may still be wise to accept the invitation in view of question 3 . For this type of invitations , I would try to find a smaller contribution which fits the visibility of the proposed publication venue . In a book chapter , for example a summarizing synthesis of some of your previous results might be appropriate .
Even if not " published " in some sense , prior work can/should/must be cited . E.g. , cited literally as " ... Ph.D. thesis 20xx , University of X , ( unpublished ) . " Unless they literally help you significantly change what they 'd already done , they should not be authors on your work .
There is relatively little funding of the sort you are looking for -- funding that non-U.S. residents can apply for directly to fund post-doctoral work inside the U.S. However , that is not really that important , since that is not how most post-doc positions are funded anyway . Most post-docs do not apply for their own funding . The funding comes from the institution that hires the post-doc ( Very often -- but not always -- the money ultimately comes from a research grant from an outside agency , but the post-doc would not be involved in writing or administering the grant . ) If an institution has funds for a post-doc , they will advertise a job opening and hire somebody . Generally , the search is global ; they would be willing to hire somebody from anywhere in the world , provided they are a qualified . ( There are some technical caveats about how this works , but they are of little import in practice ; and -- again -- they are things that the hiring institution mostly needs to worry about , not the person they choose to hire . )
In my opinion , it is not rude to make only a brief visit , especially if you accept with , e.g. " I would love to come , thank you , but I 'm afraid I can only come there for the afternoon - I hope that is okay ? " Certainly I agree that it is as great idea to stay for the whole day if you can . I 've noticed that perception of etiquette seems to differ a lot from person to person . Whether or not it is okay to recommend a taxi from the airport ( as opposed to picking up the visitor yourself ) , whether or not to take visitors out for a late drink ( or karaoke ! ) , whether to put them up in a hotel or your house , how long to encourage them to stay ... these are all aspects where I 've seen things done differently . But a small minimum of communication beforehand and flexibility during the visit seems to suffice to guarantee a good visit . If you 're the one visiting , I would certainly recommend at the very least hanging around the department some and going out to dinner with your hosts ( assuming they invited ) , but it 's more or less up to you .
But if the student has received his master way before his qualifying exam , is there other way to write the record that looks better ? First , the student does n't get to write the record . The university writes the milestones that the student passes , specifically , which classes they took and with what grades , and which degrees they earned . ( In some countries , the thesis itself also receives a grade , like a class . ) At least in the US , intermediate milestones like finding an advisor , passing or failing quals , proposing or failing to propose a thesis , probation , suspension , termination , and even academic integrity violations are rarely recorded on university transcripts . So , for example , if a student were asked to leave a PhD program after 2.5 years , for whatever reason , the transcript would show five semesters worth of classes , ending without the student earning a degree , because they did n't . Many PhD students in this situation opt to switch to an MS degree program in their final semester , so that they can plausibly claim that they were just a masters student . ( After all , in their last semester , they were just a masters student . ) They do n't have to explain why they left without a degree . If the student already has a MS in their home department , earning a second MS in the same field is usually impossible . But another option is to switch to an MS program in a nearby field , for example , applied math or computer engineering or operations research instead of computer science . At least at my university , switching from a PhD program in department X to an MS program in nearby department Y is usually fairly painless , especially if you have a supportive advisor in department Y . If even that is not an option , I 'm afraid there 's little one can do . Your transcript will end without a degree , and most people reading it will assume that ( or at least wonder if ) you left because you were forced out .
You can ask the author of the image , or the owner of the exclusive licence if that is a different person , for permission to use the image . He may or may not grant it . If he grants you permission for free then it is courtesy to write an acknowledgement to that effect somewhere in the thesis . If the image is in the public domain then of course you are free to do with it as you will . ( By " public domain " , I mean , free of copyright restrictions by the explicit choice of the author or because the image is so old it can no longer be subject to copyright . I do not mean , simply the image was found in public . ) However many institutions have precise binding requirements for theses which would not allow you to place artwork on the cover ( even if you already had licence to do so from the author ) . You should confirm with your institution whether this would be allowed .
I 'm not entirely sure about what kind of publications you are talking about when you say ' published by vendors ' ( white papers , brochures , user manuals ? ) . But if you are referring to scientific literature , my answer is : by all means . I do n't se why you would refrain yourself from commenting the possible limitations or drawbacks of published methods . Just stay modest and consider the possibility that these publications came out a while ago and that the general knowledge in the field improved since then . Being critical , if done properly ( give objective reasons ) , is certainly something to be encouraged at the Master 's level , and yes the appropriate section for this is the " State of the art " section .
I wanted to see if there is any way to point out who was the main contributor in a graph paper or not ? Generally not . In pure mathematics it 's extremely unconventional to use any author ordering other than alphabetical . You could try , but it will look weird and attract negative attention , and nobody will be quite sure how to interpret it . In particular , you run the risk of having people think " this jerk insisted on being listed first despite the near-universal use of alphabetical order " . I virtually never see papers with any other author ordering , and I would not recommend it . It 's also rare and considered awkward to include any discussion in the paper of who contributed what . One reason is that it 's difficult to write such a discussion fairly . For example , suppose your collaborators try three approaches that fail before you find one that works . Reasonable people could disagree as to whether your collaborators were obviously on the wrong track all along , or whether they pointed the way to the solution by eliminating other plausible methods . ( The general principle is that if your collaborators are n't useful , then you should n't be working with them . Turning this around , if they are useful enough that you are happy to work with them before the problem is solved , then you ca n't retroactively decide that they were n't useful enough afterwards . ) The flip side of this is that the standards for being an author are fairly demanding , and coauthors should have seriously worked on the mathematics itself . In particular , supervising the project or editing the paper are not by themselves sufficient for coauthorship . But it 's reasonable for these people to be coauthors if they worked on the problem with you , even if you were the one who ended up making the decisive contribution . I think it may be a very deciding factor in being accepted by a good university for a master program because we can only have a few papers before graduation . The usual way this information is conveyed is a letter of recommendation from your supervisor , who can highlight the role you played in the project .
The link that you provide explains it fairly clearly for that academic community . They have chosen to organize training in reviewing and conference organization by setting up a group that does the same work as the real program committee . The shadow group 's work , however , is done only for training purposes and does not affect the actual decisions on papers . This is similar to a <URL> or <URL> in the legal arena : a chance to do " the real thing " without doing real damage if one screws up . It both gives practice and helps the main organizers identify people who are ready to be brought onto the real program committee . This is not a widespread mechanism in the scientific , however , so other communities may not mean the same thing if they use the same words .
end question
start question
Should I put a " technician " pseudo-internship on my resume for biology grad school ?
Yes , why not ? For a grad school application , you might as well list anything that shows your interest and involvement in your field . List it as whatever your job title was , and if possible add a line or two describing your activities . But if possible you will want to inform them about it in more depth . If the application includes a cover letter , statement of purpose , or similar essay , use it to describe what you did in this internship and what you learned . If the application requires recommendation letters , consider asking the professor who supervised your internship to write one .
In general , you can put pretty much whatever you want in your CV ( unless there is a template , in which case deciding what to put or not should be pretty straight-forward ) . The question is : what is the point of putting a piece of information in your CV ? Usually , a CV is used in the context of a recruitment process , where the point , in the end , is to give reasons to the recruiter to recruit you instead of someone else . Hence , a piece of information contained in a CV should be instructive , for instance by ensuring that you do have the proper credentials , or by providing evidence that you can be apt to the position you are applying for . Perhaps attending conferences is something relatively rare in your field , and you have attended more than the average PhD students ? In that case , listing all the conferences you have attended could indicate you are very interested in keeping up with recent advances in your field . It could also show that you enjoy travelling . Perhaps you have secure internal or external funding to attend that conference ( i.e. , the funding was not automatically given ) ? That 's also good evidence . You could list them if it provides evidence for an aspect that you are willing to emphasise in your application . On the other hand , if the conferences you have attended had nothing special , or do not help emphasising any particular point , then you might want to keep the space in your CV for something else .
I 'm told for your field that the answer might be yes , because you 're slightly less threatened in terms of being scooped than most , with physics ( apparently ) going largely by who submits first . I would be extremely cautious publishing the source of my thesis in its entirety on a public repository . I 'm all for repeatable science and open access , but the public should only have access to your code when this condition is met : You have no further use of the exclusive access to your code . All the questions you 've programmed have been answered , the papers and presentations that emerge from them are in press , and at this point , it is a question of reproducible research . Once that 's true , sure . Until that point ? You 're running the profound risk of your research being stolen .
I am assuming you are an undergraduate ; correct me if I 'm wrong and I 'll amend my answer . It has been my experience that summer internships at a university that you do n't attend are very rare . My advisor explicitly ignored all cold emails from students asking if they could work with her during the summer ( even if they were not asking to be paid ) . Logistically , without being enrolled in the school , things like getting access to school servers , badgeing/keys for offices , etc. is just that much more difficult , and professors just do n't have the time to vet students from external schools , nor much of an incentive to do so . With that caveat : Ask home university/department/professor for contacts and use that connection ? Absolutely , but it is going to take more than getting contacts to get a summer internship . Unless your professor reaches out to those contacts himself/herself , you 're probably not going to get much traction . What if I have no prior research experience and professors only know me from classes ? Then you are less likely to entice them to help you . You 're better off trying to work with those professors at your own university instead of trying to use them to work somewhere else . Google and send CV + Statement to ( many ) professors via email and hope for the best Please do n't bother them -- they get too much spam to begin with . You 'll not only waste your time , but theirs as well . Google for positions that are explicitly offered for 8-10 week summer internships This is the best option , but I suggest not limiting yourself to universities and to branch out to look for internship experience in industry ( if this is such a thing in your field ) . For one , there are probably more opportunities , and secondly , they are generally more structured and you might get more out of the experience . Incidentally , many professors use the summer months for work-related travel and to take vacation . This makes it even more unlikely that you will find a position , as the number of professors around during the summer is minimal . On the other hand , if you happen to find a professor that will assign you to one of his/her graduate students , you could potentially still work in the lab under the grad student tutelage instead of directly for the professor ( and , indeed , this is probably what will happen in any lab -- as an undergraduate you will probably work more for the graduate students than for the professor , although this obviously varies by school and professor ) .
I think we all get these emails and being famous and more senior probably means getting more of them . I am not famous or senior so I get one/two of these a day . I reply to them all . I am not sending man to mars and and can spend 30 seconds to reply to someone who sent an irrelevant one or spend a bit of time helping someone who was genuine and/or had a high calibre and went and studied my work . Naturally the quality of my reply depends on the quality of the email I have received . Thats the least that I can do . I must confess at times it has been a one liner saying " at least do a bit of research and see what I do instead if this generic meaningless email and have attached my boilerplate text explaining why this is not helpful and what they should do " but also sending a three pager , correcting mistakes I have seen in CV , cover letter and/or proposal and calling people I know to help somebody out . Why do I do this ? Yes it takes time and we are all busy but I enjoy the fact that I am in a position to guide someone and help them out in bettering themselves . Many have done this for me before and believe it or not those guys who replied were really helpful . I do the same in hope that it might inspire someone , help him/her succeed and give them the sense that people do care about you and want to have your back . Same way many people are in this community who give their time and help strangers they do n't know . Now answer to the question : Write a boilerplate text for the ones who send you random stuff . This is not the last time you will get something like this . Explain why this is not going to help and what is the correct way . You only have to do this once and whether they take your advice or not is their choice ... In future if you become an academic please do try to help people and do n't see their efforts as SPAM if you feel they are genuine and have tried . Also give the benefit of the doubt to the ones who send random emails . They might just be desperate and need some help . Preparing some text to explain the above might actually help someone . It might be that he/she has got bad advice about how to go about finding positions etc. .
You have shown that you have overcome great adversity and still achieved great results - this says a lot of positives about your character - of resilience and perseverance - two attributes that are critical for any graduate studies . You had a cancer scare and still passed the subject despite the medical tests and the very justified anxiety . Maybe , it is not an " ugly spot " , but that C , and subsequent successes are a reminder of how much strength and tenacity you have shown .
I may be suggesting the obvious but it will depend on your program and your level . For a course based masters program with a practical bent I would imagine they would look upon your grades favourably . These tend to include some sort of practical capstone project required to earn the degree . If it 's thesis based , it would tend to imply some theoretical work . For a PhD , expect theory . Really , why else would they be PhDs ? Further , most of the applications I 've seen ( and submitted ) tend to speak to a well rounded applicant profile . They want to know about the work you 've done , volunteer experience , publications , and your academic history . But perhaps most importantly in your situation , they tend to want some form of personal statement outlining why you both want and deserve to be in a program . This would be your opportunity to convince them ; much like a cover letter . I 'm in the western world however , and cant speak to institutions beyond that sphere .
I have to disagree slightly with the stark " No " answers . Only when those details provide evidence of your potential for research . Some information about your high-school experience may shed light on your research potential . Certainly you would want to mention winning the <URL> or the <URL> , or describe the peer-reviewed research papers you published as a high school student . But your high school grades ? No , leave them off .
Networking is key -- check out <URL> to <URL> . Find people in your university who are willing to recommend you to the other researchers in the field , whom you would like to work with . Take advantage of the connections your faculty members have developed . Then write a killer cover letter . aeismail notes that <URL> was the only reason he even considered an individual for a research internship . Research the PI and tailor your letter to his/her interests and current project .
If you can make the data set available to the community in some way , you are doing it a good service , because it will allow other people to use your dataset for comparison and for their own new works . If they find it useful , it will also help you , as the people who use it will cite your paper as the source . I would thus say that yes , if you have a good way to either post it online or attach it to your paper as supplementary information , this this is a good thing to do .
I do n't think the arxiv is the right place to upload unfinished work , no matter what you hope to gain from it . It would be worth reading <URL> as well as talking to others and seeing what is done in practice in your field . My own understanding is that the arxiv is an " e-print server " , i.e. , an electronic preprint server . A preprint is a completed paper which has not yet been published . ( Though one can still upload published papers to the arxiv in many cases ... ) It is only fair to mention that a small but non-negligible percentage of arxiv papers are not intended for submission to journals in their current forms . For instance , I currently have 27 arxiv papers ; a few of them have not been submitted yet , and one of them is not intended for journal submission in its current form . I was asked to upload it to the arxiv because a colleague of mine wanted to cite it in his accepted journal article and the journal had asked for something a little more formal and stable than my own homepage . In retrospect , I think this was a good idea on their part . But all of my arxiv submissions are " complete " . Concerning incomplete submissions , here is a sentence from the webpage linked to above : Please note that we do not accept submissions with omitted figures , tables or sections . We also do not accept " abstract only " submissions . Such submissions are unhelpful to readers and of very limited archival value . Based on what you describe , I am concerned that your putative arxiv submission would violate either the letter or the spirit of this requirement . You certainly do not want to submit to the arxiv in this case , because the arxiv is moderated , and low quality submissions can cause you to lose future privileges ( as well as giving you a very poor reputation with at least the arxiv moderators , who presumably have some stature and influence in the academic community ) . On the other hand , in many cases whether a paper is " unfinished " is known only to the author , and it would probably be possible for you to prepare a version of your paper which meets the above requirements . In my opinion , as an undergraduate you should not upload ( or widely distribute in any e-forum ) work that you know to be seriously incomplete . Work that you upload to the arxiv stays there forever . ( Truly : even if you withdraw a paper , the record of it remains and people can still access all the earlier versions . I do n't know about anyone else , but when I see a withdrawn paper it makes me curious and thus more likely to look at earlier versions . ) Outsiders are not going to judge your work by undergraduate standards ; in many cases they will not know that the work was written by an undergraduate . They 'll look at a paper that has the level of an incomplete undergraduate project : that is not making a good name for yourself . If you want to include your unfinished manuscript in your application , that 's a different story : definitely do so if you spent a lot of time on the work and are proud of it . ( Even mature academics list unfinished manuscripts on their CV and sometimes even post them on their webpage . I do this , although less often as time goes on . ) I may as well say the obvious thing though : it would be better if you finished it . Could n't a hard-nosed faculty evaluator say that if you were really passionate , serious and competent , then you would have finished your project ? As above , having the submitted version be formally complete as a document though you yourself know that you 'd like to do more with it seems like a good idea .
As someone involved in graduate admissions decisions , I can say unequivocally that knowing a student has been denied admission at another program does not negatively influence my admissions decisions . I have all of the application materials from the student , and ( assuming the applicant is strong ) the decision is sufficiently important that I will certainly look at and evaluate all those materials . The decision of another school is not a useful indicator of whether I should admit you . Indeed , if you tell me you have an offer from another top program , I might even be more cautious about offering you admission . Why ? If I make all my initial offers to students who end up going to other schools , then I have to go back and dig through the applications and find the ones that did n't already accept an offer , which by that time will be lower quality applicants . I know of one program where this happened last year and they resolved to make more strong offers to the second tier of ( still quite strong ) applicants this year .
It does n't necessarily mean your research advisor . It could be a faculty member you 've taken classes with , someone you 've worked on a project with , etc. . What the admissions committee is looking for is evidence that you will succeed in graduate school - and that means evidence that you can think independently , tackle difficult problems , and so on . Choose faculty members who can speak to your abilities as a student and a ( future ) researcher . When I asked for LoRs , I asked ( 1 ) a faculty member I had taken several classes with and with whom I was working as an undergraduate research , ( 2 ) another faculty member I had taken several classes with and had a good working relationship with , and ( 3 ) a faculty member who I was currently taking a class with ( and who admittedly was an alumnus of my top school ) :-)
I varies with fields and journals . Some journals do allows posting preprints on one 's webpage , or on a preprint server . Some not , but they do n't care . ( And some academicians do put their papers on their websites , even if it is against rules . ) Some do n't allow and do care , so putting the preprint on your webpage may disqualify you from publishing this work . ( If it fits your discipline , why not using <URL> ? )
I assume you are creating your for some ( job or graduate studies ) . I understand that having three to four good referees is good enough . You need not provide more than that . I am particularly speaking about the academia in US and I believe it would be different elsewhere ( e.g. UK ) . Of course you may put different referees according to the requirement . I mean you may need to create different for different occasions . Some referees would be better able to acknowledge your work for a given situation . For example you may need to take a from a ( for example ) Mathematics teacher when applying for in Math . In fact I have also seen that many people do not put the references . In an application process , they are required to separately provide the names and contacts of the referees .
I am sure that there is a very wide range of opinion/reaction to what some people call " self-study " . For me ( grad admissions in mathematics in the U.S. ) , evidence of interest in reading things beyond what coursework demands is an extremely positive and unusual indicator . That is , so far as people seem to let on , no one reads any math book that 's not a textbook for a course they 've registered for , does not read ahead , and so on . I do n't understand it , although I 've seen it for decades . Yes , it is not as easy to " document " reading things as it is to document " grades in courses " ... but my own opinion is that even excellent grades in courses form only a limited positive , since it refers to compliance , obedience , etc. , even if at a challending level/rate/whatever . That is , for me , mathematics is not merely a school subject , nor merely a thing that one might get research funding for ... :)
If you think there was an oversight , you could always ask the chair of the tenure committee directly if they left you out . Alternatively , you could simply write the letter and submit it to the committee . The worst-case scenario here is that the letter is not forwarded to the committee .
Try out several projects in different areas does not necessarily say that you do not know what interests you . You have to show them that you are interested several areas and you wanted to get an insight in order to obtain a wider range of possibilities . I think that there are few people who immediately find the right area that interests them 100 % . It is important that you present it that way . Working on different projects brings more extensive experience in any case . If you have then found the right area for you , you can deal with it more intense .
Here are my suggestions , having just finished a year of graduate school in math . It 's therefore mostly anecdotal and should be taken lightly ! REUs : Try to do as many as you can ! You get to meet other people who like math , learn new stuff , practice struggling with research , travel a bit , and get some cash to boot . They also , of course , look good on applications . Publications : I do n't personally have any publications . I wrote a few papers during my REUs and projects , but they were only published on the REU websites . So they 're not necessary to get in . However , I did have a great deal of trouble getting acceptances . Maybe a publication would have helped , but I think it 's very rare for an undergraduate to actually publish a paper . Graduate Courses : I took several of these as an undergraduate . I enjoyed them , but realize now that I should have taken them a little more seriously ! I 've forgotten a great deal of what I saw in them . However , I have noticed that I 'm quite strong in the area I took graduate courses in compared to my peers . So they definitely give you an edge ! However , do n't become too obsessed with loading up with graduate courses . Three of them is quite a lot of work , if you give them justice . Since most graduate courses are graded very lightly , you can make high marks in them without putting forth as much effort as you would in an undergraduate course ! ( At least , this was how it worked at my undergraduate institution . ) That said , keep in mind that some of your time in college should be spent having fun , too . Do n't become a math robot just yet ! You have time for that in grad school . :) Reading Textbooks : The fact you 're already reading the " core " undergraduate books before even entering the university puts you far , far ahead of the curve . Many people wo n't learn those things until sophomore or junior year . I certainly did n't . Make sure you 're doing the bulk of the exercises in those books , especially Rudin . Try to prove statements you come across without looking at their proofs . I feel that this is where most of the learning happens . You can easily read things and not understand them , so just watch out ! Other than that , finish those books and then you should be set to take the advanced undergraduate/first year graduate courses at your institution . The Math Subject GRE : I hate this thing and did very poorly on it . You 'll blow the math portion of the general GRE out of the water . It 's easy stuff for any math major . However , if you do n't spend a little time reviewing , you can really mess up the subject test , since it 's timed and covers things you might not have thought about for several years . The topics are almost completely disjoint from what a student taking graduate courses has been doing . Look at a few practice tests , identify what sorts of questions are asked , and train yourself to quickly answer such questions . Speed is key . You do n't want the subject GRE to be a weak point on your application , especially since it 's an easily prevented weak point . So , do REUs , take graduate courses , do n't sweat not having publications ( but if you can get some do ) , and study for the subject GRE !
If you 're applying to a pure math program , then it 's unlikely that graduate admissions boards will be expecting courses in a particular outside discipline . If you 're doing applied math , however , it would be much more logical to expect to see some coursework in an outside discipline . However , economics may be suitable as an " outside " discipline if you 're taking advanced coursework with a mathematical bent to it . But overall , demonstrating that you are a strong candidate will make a much bigger impact than the specific training you have . Research experience , a strong statement of purpose , and great letters of recommendation will increase your chances of admission much more than if your " off-subject " courses are in economics or physics .
end question
start question
Why does a UK university need to know my sexual orientation and religion ?
The employing professor will not have access to this data . You can omit anything in this form . The data from this form goes to HR and is aggregated there so they can prove to auditing bodies that the staff distribution is not skewed ( i.e. that they are not discriminating on basis of whatever )
It 's hard to say about any specific fellowship ( especially without knowing which one ) , but I 've served on graduate admissions committees where we 've asked applicants a similar question . I do n't recall any case in which I thought someone 's answer changed whether they would be accepted , so I do n't think you should worry much about this . I see three ways in which the information is relevant . I 'll phrase everything in terms of my experience with graduate admissions , but the same reasoning probably applies for fellowships . Sometimes we learn a little more about the applicant from where they decided to apply , since we learn which sorts of departments interest them the most . The main case in which this could signal weakness is " reach schools " : if you apply to a top department and tell them the only other schools you are applying to are much lower-ranked , then it amounts to saying you do n't expect to be admitted . I 'd be wary of answering in that case , but I would n't worry about it otherwise . Knowing where else a student has applied can help in recruiting , since it means we can take into account other offers or deadlines they may face and can make a pitch based on what we expect their other options might be . ( One way this plays out in practice is it helps us guess who might benefit from extra encouragement since they may have received an offer from Department X this week . ) Departments are interested in this sort of information for statistical reasons , so they can keep track of which other departments applicants consider similar to or competitive with them . This reason has nothing to do with evaluating applications or recruiting students , and it could be satisfied with an anonymous questionnaire , but that 's more work to administer than simply adding a question to the application ( and it might get a lower response rate ) .
There is substantial variation between universities , and to an extent departments within a university , about what counts towards tenure . The best way to find out is to ask your department chair , a mentor , or someone on the tenure and promotions committee about what counts . That said , there are ethics regarding what affiliations should be listed on publications . If your " pending publications " are in press or far along the review process , it would be unethical to switch your affiliation . If you are still writing the manuscript , or the reviews require a major revision , and you do additional work while at your new university , then it would be appropriate to add an additional affiliation .
I will try to respond to the abstract question , with a perspective from Germany ( that may or may not be valid for other European countries ) : Is the master 's in X PhD requirement in Europe satisfied by a master 's in Applied X rather than Pure X ? The general answer to this is yes . As opposed to the subject chosen for the Bachelor and Master degree , which is <URL> , as Bachelor and Master curricula are closely coupled here , a PhD is often completely disconnected from the former studies . Note that the <URL> that <URL> linked to in the original version of <URL> does not require a particular Master 's degree , but a " relevant Master 's degree " . Without any further restrictions , this means that anything closely related to the subject ( and the relationship between Applied X and Pure X might very well be sufficient ) should do . At least , that would be the interpretation in Germany ; it is possible Austrians interpret this differently . However , it is also very well possible that the suitability of the Master 's major is determined based on the research projects at hand . In that case , it depends entirely on the decision of the respective department chair , and it would be worthwhile to contact departments you are interested in . As a concrete example , it is completely normal in Germany to see Masters of Physics , Linguistics , and Maths starting PhDs in Computer Science , not only Masters in Computer Science . EDIT : To clarify the last remark : None of them have to take any extra courses ; rather , they are expected to bring their professional subject-specific knowledge from physics , linguistics , and maths , respectively , into their computer science research ( while " informally " ( i.e. without a class ) catching up with the CS knowledge ) , just like Masters in CS are expected to use their professional CS-specific knowledge in their computer science research , while " informally " acquiring knowledge on ( w.l.o.g. ) physics , linguistics , and maths , as required for their respective research .
First , a note : the editor ( or editors , or editorial committee ) is solely responsible for the decision to publish or reject a submitted manuscript . Reviewers are often ( not always ) called in and their reports provide help to the editor in evaluating the manuscript . But , at the end of the day , it is the editor who makes the call , so the situation you describe is possible and not necessarily unethical . It is , however , very unusual , both for the editor not to follow the unanimous recommendation of the reviewers , and even more so not to explain their rejection any further . You can definitely ( and , in my opinion , should ) contact the editor to : express your surprise at the rejection , given the contents of the reviews ; ask whether it may have been an administrative error ( with the nice streamlined web-based editor interface , a simple misplaced click might have lead to the current situation ) ; if the decision is deliberate , ask the editor if he may expand on the reason behind the rejection . Of course , be professional and polite . If after contacting the editor you are not satisfied with the answer , the only way forward is to appeal the decision to the editor-in-chief or the full editorial board . Details on how to do so should be found on the journal 's website . This should not be done lightly , but if you do not get a decent reply from the editor , it seems warranted by the facts of your case . You may , however , want to consider sending the manuscript to another journal , as it will take much less effort than the appeal ...
IELTS is widely accepted in the UK , and it is also accepted by the UK immigration authorities . ToEFL is also widely accepted by universities but is no longer accepted by UK immigration authorities .
It should be the case that material are not dependent on brand and location , but in many cases , especially the biological sciences , they are . This is wrong and bad , but is also simply the state of the science at present , in areas that have not yet had standards and mechanisms for certifying those standards . For example , something as apparently " simple " as DNA synthesis has no established quality control standards , so when somebody uses DNA supplied by an industrial supplier , which supplier can really make a difference ! The same is notoriously true for reagents as well -- to the point where people will often put down not just the brand but the batch number . So , how do you know when you need to reference the brand name ? There are two answers to this which are , unfortunately , somewhat contradictory : Scientifically , you need to put it down whenever the expected variance in materials from supplier to supplier is might make a significant difference in the results that are observed . If you do n't know whether it will make a difference , you need to put it down . Note that this is also strongly dependent on the size of the effect that you are measuring : if you predict and observe a function with high precision and minimal variance , then the materials are much less likely to matter than if you are observing a 10 % variation in a noisy system and had to apply a significance test to determine that the result actually existed . From a cultural perspective , you need to put the brand name down anywhere that reviewers in your field will expect to see a brand name , whether or not it is appropriate . You can learn this by looking at papers , but it wo n't necessarily tell you what the scientific truth is , because there are often unsupported assumptions embedded in this cultural practice . The conservative approach , of course , is to give brand for the union of both , and that 's a reasonable strategy . As methods progress , however , we should move toward the point where the mechanisms and experimental methods are well enough established that the effects of the incidental experimental circumstances can be minimized ...
This " answer " is really speculation - if you truly want to know their motivations , you have to ask them . But I think the simplest and most likely explanation is that they do n't consciously believe they will need that many DOIs ; they just had to pick some format , and arbitrarily chose a number of digits that seemed more than adequate ( as well as perhaps allowing for DOIs to be assigned in some other way than just serially ; e.g. someday the DOI could identify volume , year , page number , etc ) . They probably did n't even think about people needing to transcribe them by hand - and to be fair , in this age of electronic distribution and copy/paste , it 's a pretty rare use case .
Whether your institution plans to put it online is a question you have to ask them . Whether they are allowed to put it online depends on the policies of the journal where it was published . You will need to read the copyright transfer agreement that you accepted when the paper was published .
No . Many of the top universities are tourist attractions and it is not uncommon to see tourists wandering around campus taking photos and eventually buying paraphernalia . While in the US it is not uncommon to see students wearing standard school t-shirts and sweatshirts , in the UK , students generally do not wear clothes that are available in the bookstore . Rather , they wear clothes made for particular clubs that they are involved in .
Initially , like xLeitix , my response to this question was " Say what ? " Then I did some reading . For those who are interested , here are some articles on the subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Given this context : if sex-for-grades is sufficiently " popular " in your department that it can " strongly weaken the quality of education , " then you have a bigger problem then how and whom to punish the next time it happens . What should a head/dean do in this regard to preserve the education quality ? In a department where sex-for-grades is common , you ca n't stop it by punishing it in an ad-hoc manner . You have to create a comprehensive policy ; educate students , faculty , and administration about this policy ; and then enforce it . If you do n't have a university policy ( or your university policy is not sufficient ) , you can create a school-wide or departmental policy , depending on the scope of your position . Your sexual harassment policy should clearly describe : Exactly what constitutes sexual harassment , What the consequences will be for those involved , and ( the most important of all ) , How to safely report harassment . In addition , you should then take steps to educate Faculty , on how to protect themselves against sexual advances from students ( steps such as : keep a strictly professional tone in emails and other communication with students , have meetings with students with office door open , etc. ) Administration , on how to respond to allegations against students/faculty with sensitivity and discretion Students , on how they can report harassment without fear of retaliation Who to be punished ? Student or professor ? Or both ? As for who to punish : any faculty or administrative staff member who solicits sex from a student in return for grades , or threatens to fail a student who wo n't have sex with them , or responds to an offer of sex for grades with anything other than a firm " NO " should be punished . Of course , it must say so in your policy and you must make sure to educate faculty about this policy . Students are usually the disadvantaged group in this scenario , and punishing students could deter them from reporting sexual harassment . Therefore , I would advise against punishing students in most cases . I can think of a few exceptions , where it is appropriate to punish students : e.g. , students who make repeated sexual advances , despite being warned more than once in an official capacity not to do so . How to punish ? depends entirely on what kind of punishment you can enforce , as a department head/dean . I have no idea what kind of power you have as a department head/dean in your educational system . Typically in the U.S. it would be handled at a higher level , as Nate Eldredge pointed out , because department heads in the U.S. do n't usually handle disciplinary matters .
Write your affiliation similar to how you 'll do it with a university . First Last [ Designation , ] Dept. , Institution If your hospital does not split members into departments , then Dept. part can be omitted . Examples : Aaron Stone Neurosurgeon , XYZ Clinic Cathy Miller Researcher , Cancer Research Lab , BCD Hospital Greg Thompson Cryogenics , GHI Health Institute Note that it is not always necessary to include your designation ( job description ) , unless the publisher asks for it .
It depends on the journal . For example , the <URL> instructions for authors state : appropriate institutional review board ( IRB ) review and approval should accompany all studies involving human participants or research material derived from human participants . This information should be clearly stated in the Method section of the manuscript . In addition , the manner in which informed consent was obtained from the study participants ( i.e. , oral , written , online/electronic ) should also be stated in the Method section . If the study was exempted from IRB approval , that information should be indicated in the Method section . Failure to provide this information in the manuscript may result in the manuscript being returned without review . <URL> takes a different approach and does not require the IRB approval to be mentioned in the text ( and may not even allow it ) , but does provide a <URL> , that the author must complete and is provide to reviewers , that deals with IRB approval .
I am always in a hurry to do the same . What I have noticed for this field is that if I predict something , I need to provide biological validation for my result . Why so ? Because this is how one knows if your results are correct and useful . A prediction is nothing if it has n't been evaluated . The field is littered with predictions that turn out to be nonsense , only hold up under very narrow circumstances , etc. . Is biological validation not the work of biologists ? No more than it would be if a biologist said " I just developed this algorithm , proving it 's correct is the work of a computer scientist . " Beyond that , there 's no reason for them to do so . " I 've made an arbitrary prediction , anyone want to validate it ? " is going to be met with a resounding " No " - the biologists have their own work to do . How can a computer science student provide biological validation for his/her prediction ? Is n't our job just to predict ? No , it 's your job to provide useful results . Validated predictions are useful . Just predictions are not . As people have noted , there are a number of ways to validate a prediction . Existing data , or even simulated data based on known biological patterns , might be sufficient . If no such data exists , it 's time to find a collaborator . Why do the journals want biological validation for the results ? Because anything else is just speculation . I did a prediction job , where I predicted some proteins to do a particular function . I communicated it to the Molecular BioSystems Journal . They rejected it saying I have no biological validation . If biologists are the one with the final say , then what point do we have in working in this domain ? Whatever we predict would be questioned . Do you know that it was rejected by a biologist ? There 's a number of computer scientists I know who would have rejected such a paper for having no biological validation . Beyond that , your " point " in working in the field is to generate those predictions and evaluate their correctness . The latter part is also an aspect of good computational biology .
If you can make an accommodation that allows the student to participate without violating his religious observance , and without compromising the educational goals of the class , and without requiring an extreme amount of effort on your part , then it is reasonable to make the accommodation . I regularly miss classes and exams due to religious observance . My school has a very clear policy on the matter : If students have to miss a class session , exam , or are otherwise unable to participate in a course requirement due to religious observance , they must notify the professor and a certain dean in a timely manner ( the definition of " a timely manner " is further specified in the policy ) If said student follows the above requirement , they can not be penalized for their religious observance and the professor must offer a fair alternative ( e.g. , makeup exam or assignment ) If your university has no policy on the matter , feel free to adopt mine , and specify it in your syllabus at the beginning of the semester . However , I would not take a class where I know the main requirement of a class would violate my religious observance . Indeed , I know people who have refrained from pursuing a career because a non-negotiable required class for that field would require something that violates their religious observance . * So , if the course is Figure Drawing and someone registers knowing that he can not draw the human figure ... I do n't think you are required to let him pass the class by doing still lives instead . If the course is Introduction to Art for Non-Majors , it may be possible to offer an alternative to the portrait assignment . This applies more generally as well . If a student in good faith ( i.e. , not to get out of doing work ) considers an assignment illegal , unethical , compromising to his health/safety , etc. . it seems reasonable to offer an alternative assignment if it does not compromise the educational goals of the course . * See : <URL>
I believe that there are ( at least ) two main reasons for this : Law and business faculty generally have alternative job prospects that pay extremely well . That means that universities have to pay enough to compete with those alternatives in order to attract and keep their faculty . They both generally teach in professional schools that are not part of the main university ( at least in the US ) . Professional schools ( especially top ones ) usually have high tuition , high enrollment , and healthy donor bases ( due to the aforementioned high potential income ) , and therefore they have very strong revenue streams . They also do n't incur many of the costs that the rest of the university does ( e.g. sports facilities , dorms , financial aid ) . Together , this means that they have significantly more resources to pay their faculty with .
In paragraph 4 of the statutes , it restricts the price to be only awarded to two works and to a maximum of 3 individuals : <URL> But it also says , that it can be awarded to an insitution or organization . Which has been done with the Nobel Peace Prizes to the EU .
I think the best answer to this question has already been given as a comment : You should ask your advisor . The fact that you are asking this question suggests that you and your advisor have n't discussed in detail what your thesis should consist of . It 's important to have this conversation , even aside from the particular question you are asking here . ( You do n't want to risk discovering much later that you and your advisor had different visions for what the thesis should be like . ) This is a good answer to so many questions on this site ( I have started to think that there should be an " Ask your advisor ! " closure option ) , but it seems especially true here . From the OP 's comment I can see that the master 's thesis is being done in mathematics . The expectations and requirements for a master 's thesis in mathematics are so highly variable across institutions and countries that I can think of almost nothing ( other than " Ask your advisor ! " ) which would be guaranteed to be universally applicable . In mathematics programs in the US , it is especially unclear what work constitutes a master 's thesis , especially in pure mathematics . Unlike the situation in many other countries , there are relatively few full-time master 's students in American universities , even compared to the number of master 's degrees awarded : in my experience , more master 's degrees go to talented , ambitious undergraduates who get them alongside their bachelor 's degrees , or to PhD students who have decided to drop out of the program and get a consolation degree . In my case I got a master 's degree along with my bachelor 's degree at the University of Chicago , and for such a top university you might be surprised to hear how minimal the requirements were : I had to complete all nine trimester courses that first year graduate ( i.e. , PhD ) students take ( I did so over two years ) and pass a pro forma foreign language exam . [ In particular I did not write a master 's thesis . ] When I went on to my PhD studies ( at Harvard ) I found that I was about as well prepared as most of the other students . I do n't recall that my having a master 's degree came up once during my five years in a PhD program ... with the possible exception that some students would , a year or two into their program , fill out paperwork and pay a small fee to get a master 's degree , whereas I already had one of those so chose to keep my money . Having been heavily involved with the graduate ( mostly PhD ) program at the University of Georgia in recent years , I can say that here a master 's thesis is whatever the advisor and student agree that it is , subject to the approval of two other committee members . Writing a thesis is one route ; there is another route involving more coursework and some exams . Among master 's thesis advisors I 've talked to , the sense is that the student should take the thesis as an opportunity to engage with some piece of mathematics at a deeper level than they have done before , to the extent that they have mastered it and can show this mastery with an original ( or at least , independent ) exposition . This description seems rather at odds with the one given in another answer to this question : NO . Undergrads may get away with using one ( or a few ) papers to synthesize the essence into their own viewpoint , but at the post-grad level you should be reading for width and depth , which means using every seminal work in your field as well as exploring the newer papers on the topic . This is probably a correct description of some academic fields , but not for mathematics . Very few mathematics undergraduates are reading " real " math papers at all . The task of reading , understanding and writing about even one " real " math paper may in fact be sufficient for a master 's thesis . There are even certain papers out there for which rewriting them so as to contain the level of detail and completeness that would satisfy a master 's thesis committee would be a real service to the mathematical community . I think that most PhD students in mathematics do not use every seminal work in [ their ] field : I did n't , for instance . I am not saying that just any old thing will suffice for a master 's thesis in mathematics : I am saying that the global requirements are very few , so it becomes more important to talk to your advisor . I have so far supervised one master 's thesis . My student carefully read and wrote about two papers concerning geometry of numbers and Legendre 's Equation ax ^ 2 + by ^ 2 + cz ^ 2 = 0 . She then tried to extend the techniques of the second paper to diagonal quadratic equations in n \ geq 4 variables . Much of this was easy , but the key was the existence of a " magic sublattice " defined in the three-dimensional case by the necessary congruence conditions for Legendre 's Equation to have a solution . After much trouble ( and some help from me ) , she was eventually able to prove that for more than three variables such a magic sublattice did not exist . She wrote up a thesis which contained exp
The funding depends on your nationality/residence by a lot , as well as the field , the university , and the supervisor . UK or EEA residents can get funding from national research councils ( such as ESPRC , STFC and many more ) which give them ( usually ) the cost of tuition plus a small living stipend ( when I was applying the living wage was about # 13,000 ) . Non UK/EEA people generally have to self-fund outside of a few special circumstances ( competitive international scholarships such as Rhodes , university bursaries for internationals ) . This is very very rare . However , it 's not terribly uncommon to see students from an above-average financial situation self-funding , but then they need to pay not only their living costs , but also the cost of tuition ( at my old university it was about # 20k per year for international students ) . I wrote an extensive response on all of these issues <URL> and <URL> and <URL> . The other answers from other users on those posts are also excellent . So what happens is that you apply , and then you will be ( hopefully ) asked for an interview . If you are able to compete for the ' normal ' funding pot , you will be interviewed much the same way as everyone else . First a shortlist , then the interviews , and maybe follow-up interviews will be used to select the best candidates from the pool of applicants . If you 're non-UK/EEA , you may or may not interview with everyone else ; it 's up to the university . If they do n't have the money to fund you , many departments will make you an offer anyway ( especially for foreign students ) which you will usually have several months to accept or decline . The research councils will grant the department a certain number of PhD studentship bursaries , and they will distribute them . From what I 've seen , you do n't have to do much self-application for scholarships unless you 're foreign . Though you will always be told where the money is coming from , and there may be some requirements ( a yearly seminar , for example ) to get the money . If you are given a stipend , it is tax-free , unlike in many other countries . Your funding is all-inclusive , not split up into RA or TA like in the US . You can normally make extra money marking coursework or demonstrating in labs , although the ' estimated number of hours ' taken by these activities does n't always match up with the actual number of hours you spend on them !
Does anyone else experience this ? Yes , I 'm pretty sure we all do to some extent , and that it 's one of the defining characteristics of being a researcher that you get so emotionally involved in your work and are so passionate about it that it has that effect . It can be both a curse and a blessing ( see the fantastic question linked to by jakebeal in the comments ) . Hopefully if you are talented and work hard , it will be the latter more often than the former . As for how to manage it : get used to it ( I mean that literally , not as a sarcastic admonition ) - if you plan a career in academia there will always be ups and downs of this sort . At some point one learns to be patient and not to freak out every time the research is n't going great . Always have other more " normal " work to do , like teaching , that can help you feel like you 're doing something worthwhile even during those times when you 're stumped with your research .
end question
start question
How long does it take for a citation to show up online ?
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> and other indexing services have their own ways how the papers get into their database . For Scopus , the journal has to be registered there , and then actively send the data . It 's similar for Web of Knowledge I think . Google gets the data from who-knows-where and I doubt you can control it efficiently . In general , it takes couple weeks to several months . As dgraziotin pointed out in comments , Google Scholar indexes citations from <URL> quite quickly , in couple days . However , by many people and many institutions , arXiv papers are not considered at all regarding citations , unless they are published properly elsewhere and properly Journal-ref ' ed ; even then , many people do n't trust that the arXiv version is correct , because nobody makes any check of this ( I mean , you can put whatever Journal-ref to whatever your arXiv paper , so it 's not trusted ) .
[ Citation ] means that Google Scholar has not been able to find a source for the publication , but that it has inferred that it exists because other publications cite it . Taken directly from Google Scholar help " These are articles which other scholarly articles have referred to , but which we have n't found online . To exclude them from your search results , uncheck the " include citations " box on the left sidebar . "
There are interesting aspects raised by this question , not the least at which end of a distant interaction does the adjustment take place . Should the dyslexic collaborator make adjustments or should the other party make accommodations ? The issue of the influence any legislation is also interesting . If the collaboration arrangement is a formalised one , does any anti-discrimination laws apply at the US end which would require the US party to make adjustments ? Not knowing details of local laws I can not say , but local advice might need to be obtained . Even if it is not a requirement to do anything there may be other imperatives such as the protection of university reputation that could be affected by not being able to enable effective collaborations with disabled students . At the <URL> the location would indicate if their university should be providing resources to enable adjustments . If it was the <URL> ( I know it is not ) the the student 's university would already have an obligation to support adjustments to enable the participation in the collaboration on equal terms . Having discussed who might have to make adjustments , lets looks at possible means of adjustment . The most obvious mechanism is speech to text software , but even the best software has trouble with non-native ( and some native ) accents as well as the technical material often contained in Phd research discussions . Many regular uses of text-to-speech use a special " talking-to-the robot " form of speech to ensure accurate transcription . This leaves two other approaches . The move to a reduced text content or human transcription . Many dyslexic people find lengthy textual prose difficult . Often diagrams or speech are better . A tools that is often recommended are idea capture using brain-ware mapping . An example of such a Tool is <URL> . The research ideas can be captured in diagram form and pasted into a discussion wiki . Using a diagram the dyslexic and non-dyslexic collaborators can communicate on equal terms . If speech transcription seems to have a rle then , perhaps , junior researchers , such as undergraduate volunteers could be used to transcribe . This could happen at either end depending on availability of labour or funding . For a dyslexic student where funding is available there are software solutions that are very helpful in preparing text . Some tools assist in the conversion of non-linear expression into structured text ( such as Inspiration as already mentioned ) , but there are also writing tools . I find <URL> can be very useful , but others are available . I final thought ; It is often said <URL> and as such there can be linguistic difficulties between the most erudite writers on different continents . Just think how much harder it can be when dyslexia is introduced into the mix . As with both issues dialect or dyslexia , a little tolerance goes a long way .
I do n't think there 's any way to stick a citation and figure reference right next to one another in a non-ugly way , so I cheat . When faced with a situation like this , I reorganize the sentence so that they are separated , e.g. : The SuperFramework [ 1 ] , for which a screenshot is shown in Figure 1.1 , ...
First : a few people commented that thinking about your postdoc/Habilitation before even starting your Ph.D. is premature . I disagree . I have seen too many people coast along during their Ph.D. time without ever knowing what they are going to do afterwards , and certainly not preparing for their post-Ph . D. time , whether in academia or in industry . So I would say you demonstrate good long-term thinking . Already thinking about your academic career will help you prepare to work out a research program , network ( more on this below ) etc. . Second : there is no problem whatsoever with changing advisors between the Ph.D. and the postdoc period . To the contrary ! If you stay at the same place for almost ten years , you will need to explain why you never moved , never checked out other places to work , other approaches to research . Many , many ( most ? ) people will switch advisors at least once , or possibly even do postdocs in two different places . Incidentally , this is why I think it is a good thing you are already thinking about your long-term future now , because it is never too early to start meeting people at conferences with your future in mind . You may just meet someone at your first conference who you could collaborate with or spend your postdoc time with . So I would definitely recommend that you consider the older potential advisor . He sounds like he could introduce you to lots of people , and you will likely not need to pack up and move somewhere else during your Ph.D. period , which seems possible with the younger professor and which could somewhat mess up your personal life . Of course , these considerations are all not the highest priority . You should definitely keep other aspects in mind in choosing where to do your Ph.D. , like the kind of project you would be doing for either of the two professors , or whether the two of you " click " on a personal level , or what financing there is , or <URL> . Finally , there is no Habilitation in Germany any more . Nowadays , Germany has moved to a more American style in academic careers . You will do a Ph.D. , then a postdoc , then usually a Juniorprofessur ( roughly , assistant professorship - not tenured and limited to six years ) , then get your Ruf to a tenured position . It 's quite possible to skip the Juniorprofessur , though .
I 've done my PhD in Japan , and have had much contact with professors in America and Japan . The academic relationship and work culture in both countries are very different . In America it is generally not regarded as bad when someone puts their feet on the table while talking to you . I had bosses and advisors in the US who did this . However , in Japan , the advisor-student relationship is more respectful and professional . I would like to tell you that you should ask the professor to refrain from putting their feet on the table , but if they do it in their office , it is pretty much up to them . Since the office is the professor 's space , I do not think it is your friend 's business to ask them not to do it .
Did I do the right thing to discourage this practice of irrelevant self-citation ? Yes . In fact , as a reviewer , you should point out irrelevant citations of any kind ( self - or otherwise ) , and suggest that these be removed . Conversely , you should not complain about relevant and appropriate self-citations . The issue is the lack of relevance , not the self-citing . Is there anything else that I should have done ? This is exactly what should happen : reviewers should call out this kind of thing , so the authors will have to remove the irrelevant citations before the paper is published . This anecdote is a triumph of diligent reviewing :)
I want to prepare some exercise sheets for a course . I am wondering whether or not it is OK to take some exercises directly from the textbook . Yes . Regardless of the legality or scholastic integrity of copying exercises from required textbooks , recommended textbooks , non-required textbooks , other books in your personal or institutional library , course web pages , random pieces of paper found in classrooms , and the like , it is common and accepted practice to do so , typically without attribution of any kind . Unless you 're teaching a popular MOOC ( which attract lawyers like certain substances attract flies ) or writing a popular textbook ( likewise ) , nobody is going to come after you for copyright violation . But if it 'll keep you awake at night otherwise , rewrite the problem in your own words before you distribute it to your students . Of course , you should also include your own original problems . ( Just do n't be surprised to see another instructor use them later . )
Contrasting your work with earlier work on the same topic ( same or related questions ) is a crucial part of a scientific publication . You have to explain to the reader what makes your approach better ( or worse ) depending on the exact problem to solve . Now , whether you should do this in the section devoted to review of the existing literature is debatable . There are no strict rules , so as long as you do it somewhere and the paper is clearly readable , just do what seems best to you . If you have trouble writing , I would suggest you separate the content into a simpler form : State of the art : review of the existing literature . What problems are solved , what are remaining questions , where can we make progress . This is the motivation of your work . Your methodology Your results Discussion of how these results compare to earlier work : you 're doing better than A and B on large matrices , but the approach means that you will be slower than C on sparse matrices , that sort of stuff .
Yes . You are able to demonstrate your proficiency in English by obtaining one of the certifications below . Mind you , these courses do take 120 + hours and extensive command of English ( grammar ) to complete . Choose properly accredited ones when possible that include a practical component . Bonus : A recognized TEFL , TESL or TESOL certification can net you a job as an English teacher aboard as it is internationally recognized . TEFL -- Teaching English as a Foreign Language TESL -- Teaching English as a Second Language TESOL -- Teaching English to Speakers of another Language
I always like to show the students Wolfram Alpha in freshman math courses . ( Many will already know about it , whether you show them or not . ) There are several reasons for this . The first is that it 's a useful tool , both for checking solutions to homeworks , and also for later in life . But the more important reason is that many students are skeptical of why they have to take a course in calculus . I double down on their skepticism by demonstrating to them that a computer can solve most computational questions on a calculus exam in about 0.05 seconds , and can even " show its work " . Having gotten their attention , I now have a good opportunity to make my case for the value of a math education . As far as exams go , I recommend prohibiting the use of all electronic devices . Some students will cheat on their homework , but that will be true no matter what and in the end they are cheating themselves .
if you are in Japan , there are many people that go to Guam to take the CPA . Essentially anybody can do it , but if you graduate from an American University , there are some modules that you do not need to take , pretty much like the Japanese CPA .
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
As an admissions-committee person for an R1 math dept , this would look to me like an obsessive-compulsive waste of time . For most people the years they 're in undergrad school are an enormous transition , and things that happen freshman year are ( hopefully , and , mercifully ) not strongly related to what happens later . People understand this , and often look with some interest on the very contrast between " freshman year " ( and maybe sophomore ) and what happens junior and senior year . While it might seem virtuous to " go back and repair " a bad performance early on , this is a vastly sub-optimal investment of one 's finite time and energy . Look forward , not back . Learn new things , do n't worry about perfecting things that really do n't need perfecting . And , indeed , grad admissions people exactly try to appraise candidates ' sense of " forward " rather than " back " ...
just saw this question on Twitter by chance , and I think I can answer it . At the moment , Google Scholar search results are not affected by the fact the person you 're searching has created a Google Scholar Citations account . The correct way to search for this Russian researcher on Google Scholar would be : author : " [ cyrillic spelling ] " OR author : " [ latin spelling ] " That way you would get both sets of citations .
This sort of thing only evolves as the product of your exhaustive reading , and discussions with your supervisors and peers . After that , at some point , your supervisor will say something like : " before you can really get into your research , just resolve this little thing - it should be fairly trivial . " That 's your thesis , right there .
Echoing the other good comments and answer , I 'd encourage you to think in terms of " forthrightness " , rather than compliance to semi-random formal criteria . Think of the function of your citations , and thinking of the idealized version of scholarship and such . The goal is not conformity to style guides , but useful contributions to human knowledge , blah-blah-blah , ;) But , yes , that should be the way to think about such questions . To my taste , citations in-line should be sufficient so that the reader does not have to " flip to the end " to see what " [ 46 ] " is . The space spent on fuller references is a good investment !!! That is , yet again , if one thinks that the function of one 's writing is to help the reader , all in-line references would be optimally helpful , as opposed to " proper-and-possibly-unhelpful " .
The American Mathematical Society has a calendar of conferences : <URL> As does the Mathematical Association of America : <URL> And the Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics : <URL>
You can answer this question is to look at the date stamps sequences on some of the existing papers . Many journals ( including the one you have asked about ) , include all of the major dates in the publication process , e.g. , " Received Date1 , Accepted Date2 , Available Online Date3 , " as well as the final date of publication . Note that the " Available Online " and final date of publication may often be very different , but except in rare cases it is " Available Online " that you should care about because that is when people begin to be able to get your paper . However , some journals do not do all of the final proof correction until closer to the date of publication , but essentially just have your preprint up online for quite some time ! Applying this analysis to this particular journal , one can find the following : Acceptance to available online looks like 1-3 weeks Final publication happens ~ 6 months later So you will probably get contacted about the proof very quickly ( if they follow the normal method of proofing before online availability ) , or not for several months ( if they do late-binding proofing ) .
No . Just report the GPA as it is listed on your report / certificate .
end question
start question
Is there any difference between journals and conferences which charge money vs those which do n't ?
I must disagree with the CS folks in the comments  . Whether a journal charges or not is immaterial to the quality of the journal . You can only gauge its quality by being an active researcher in that field , not by silly metrics ( this is an order of magnitude worse than impact factor ) . Different journals from the same publishing house might also charge different rates for publications . For instance , AIP publishes both the Phys . Rev. series ( + PRL ) and the J. Acoustical Society of America . While there are no charges for the former set , JASA has " voluntary " charges for publishing . Such " voluntary " charges are very common ( some flagship and top-of-the-line IEEE journals come to mind ) and serves primarily as an opt-out for researchers from low income countries in Asia/Africa/S . America . Researchers in N. America , Europe and Australia/NZ are expected to pay the publishing charges , since with the way grants are structured in these countries , there is almost always a specific budget earmarked for publishing costs . Of course , if a researcher has no budget or is publishing in his spare time or as a secondary interest , then they 're also welcome to not pay the charges , but I 've never seen anyone that 's on a grant decline to pay charges .  Opinions on this site seem to be overrun by CS folks , who generally state them as facts of life . From my years of experience in a variety of fields , I 've found their customs to be more of an outlier than the norm ( perhaps only mathematics has something in common ) .
I must disagree with the CS folks in the comments  . Whether a journal charges or not is immaterial to the quality of the journal . You can only gauge its quality by being an active researcher in that field , not by silly metrics ( this is an order of magnitude worse than impact factor ) . Different journals from the same publishing house might also charge different rates for publications . For instance , AIP publishes both the Phys . Rev. series ( + PRL ) and the J. Acoustical Society of America . While there are no charges for the former set , JASA has " voluntary " charges for publishing . Such " voluntary " charges are very common ( some flagship and top-of-the-line IEEE journals come to mind ) and serves primarily as an opt-out for researchers from low income countries in Asia/Africa/S . America . Researchers in N. America , Europe and Australia/NZ are expected to pay the publishing charges , since with the way grants are structured in these countries , there is almost always a specific budget earmarked for publishing costs . Of course , if a researcher has no budget or is publishing in his spare time or as a secondary interest , then they 're also welcome to not pay the charges , but I 've never seen anyone that 's on a grant decline to pay charges .  Opinions on this site seem to be overrun by CS folks , who generally state them as facts of life . From my years of experience in a variety of fields , I 've found their customs to be more of an outlier than the norm ( perhaps only mathematics has something in common ) .
end question
start question
Is it advisable to talk about " learning things I do n't know in the field " as one of the plans for future in statement of intent ?
Although I do n't want to say what you should or should not write , this is my suggestion . There is a difference between a Masters by Coursework and Masters by Research , as in the latter you most likely will be asked to provide a new contribution to science , while for the former you will most likely ' simply ' extend your knowledge through subjects . Knowing it 's an application for Masters by Research , I suggest reading up on the research you 're interested in , mention why you 're interested in it and how you can contribute to that field . I think the reviewers are more interested in your enthusiasm and how you can contribute . Mentioning that you 're willing to take credits is a sign that you 're afraid of not knowing enough , and could be a sign for reviewers that you 're not confident . On the other hand , it does show that you know your limitations - but when you decide to mention it , do n't make it the main item of your letter . In the research field however the learning does not always happen through subjects , it most often occurs through literature review . Although subjects are very beneficial if exactly in the area of research , I think that it 's sufficient to demonstrate that you are capable of working in the field of study .
I do n't know about combinatorics in particular , but I did get a PhD from one of Carnegie Mellon 's other interdisciplinary programs ( Pure and Applied Logic ) ; I was offered the choice of whether my PhD would officially be in the program name or in " Mathematical Sciences " , and was advised to choose the latter . If you 're PhD is in something other than " Mathematics " or an obvious synonym , and you want to get hired as mathematics faculty , there are two concerns that might come up : Do you know enough math , broadly speaking , to be a good colleague ( for instance , be out outside member on thesis committees , to talk to people , and so on ) ? Can you teach introductory courses ? I do know of people with degrees called " Logic " where these concerns were raised about hiring them . In the cases I know , someone was around to address those concerns , but it might be a disadvantage in departments where no one in the faculty was familiar enough with the program to address them . ( On the other hand , places where no one is familiar with your program are n't as likely to hire you anyway . ) With a degree in something as clearly mathematical as combinatorics , I think the first concern is unlikely to be an issue . The latter might be , especially if those programs do n't necessarily include any TA-ing/teaching of intro calculus courses , but this is also a concern that can be preempted ( for instance , by making sure to pursue enough teaching experience as a grad student ) .
Rtisan is probably right about a local conference carrying somewhat less weight and prestige on a CV . However , there are some other benefits of presenting at a local conference : It 's usually free . With the travel money you save , you can attend another conference far away later on . Now you have two conference talks on your CV instead of just one . ( In other words , " present locally " versus " present far away " is probably a false dichotomy . Even if the local conference conflicts with a faraway conference , there is very likely another faraway conference in the near future that 's just as good . And if the conflicting faraway conference is , like , the one and only awesomest conference in your field , then the organizers of your local conference probably should n't have scheduled theirs to conflict with it . ) Less travel : you get to save a day or two of travel time , sleep in your own bed , see your family , etc. . This may make the conference much more relaxing . Being the attraction : People may be saying to themselves : " Hey , there 's a conference at Podunk University . I think that 's where gman works , so I 'm sure he 'll be there . I was just reading his paper and it will be great to hear his talk and ask him questions . " Networking : as a local at a conference , people are more likely to want to talk to you . For instance , " Hey gman , you live here , can you recommend a good restaurant in town ? Would you like to join us for dinner ? " The opportunity to talk to other researchers informally can be very valuable to a career . Even fielding mundane questions like " How do I connect to the wifi ? Where is Room NNN ? Can you help me turn on the projector ? " can start good conversations . ( Make sure you know the answers to these questions ! ) It can be harder to initiate interactions like this when you are a stranger in a strange city . Help organize : Try to join the organizing committee , or at least offer to help them out . Organizing a local conference is a lot of work , and by contributing to this you will gain the appreciation of your colleagues . It 's also valuable experience , and " conference co-organizer " is a nice line to have on a CV . Finally , conference organizers tend to have more contact with the visiting participants , contributing to Networking as above .
I think you can certainly ask ( nicely ) for some more details about her ideas and the research she proposed as part of the grant . Especially so if this is going to be something you end up working on , or close to your own projects . You are , after all , possibly going to work for her ! I do n't think she will think anything else than you having interest in her research , which is quite positive . However , do n't ask for the grant proposal ( i.e. the written text ) itself , as it could be seen as assuming . Ask the questions you have , and let her decide if she wants to reply or simply give you the document to read .
Unlike the other existing answer , I would advise you to tread carefully . Maybe this is different for a Master 's in game development , but generally speaking , " I like to play computer games " qualifies as the # 1 worst reason we get to hear about why students are interested in computer science . One of the reasons why this is such a bad motivation is because it shows a certain level of misunderstanding about what computer science is , and I would argue that this is even true for a master in game development . Even great computer game developers are , to the best of my knowledge , not only interested in gaming , but also in AI , computer graphics and animation , HCI , physical simulation , distributed systems , optimization , etc. . Not all of them at the same time , but being " just " interested in building cool games seems rather weak , to be honest . I think it can be pretty much implied that you are interested in games if you apply for game development . Show and discuss your interests in other related areas that sets you apart from all the other applying gamers . Also , having working at Blizzard as your dream job does not show determination . Many people have this as their dream job , and still do not follow through . Determination is doing something to make your dream a reality despite problematic circumstances , not having a dream in the first place . You should explain what you did , not what you hope to achieve .
Yes , you can list this as an invited talk . Even though the first invitation was not to you , the second invitation most certainly was . Here is another way of thinking about it that may make it clear : imagine that rather than inviting your professor , the organizer has simply asked your professor : " Who do you think would be good to invite to my session ? " and your professor suggests you . This would clearly be an invitation ( albeit one where you benefit from your professional network , which often happens ) . The only difference between this situation and yours is that the suggestion was preceded by a failed invitation of your professor .
It is possible to get second masters degree in a similar or related field . Doing so might even help with getting into a top PhD program . That said , where you did your master ( s ) degrees is not the key to the kingdom or even the most important thing in your PhD application . Demonstrating that you are smart , hardworking , and excellent at research should be your goal . Another masters from a " better " University might help toward that end but it 's hardly the only or best way . Focus on doing excellent research , publishing that work in excellent scholarly venues in your field , and getting excellent letters of recommendation from people that are known and respected in the field . If you do those things , and if you also have good grades and test scores , you 'll be a strong candidate for any PhD program . I have seen people build that portfolio as an undergrad , in a masters program , as research staff at a university , or even in industry . What you do matters at least as much as where you do it .
Universities love to add bureaucratic layers and it is quite common for a university ( or schools within universities ) to carry out strategic planning to identify research priorities . A quick search reveals <URL> is to " Seize rapidly expanding opportunities in biomedical research to increase human well-being " and identifies human genetics , therapeutic discovery , neuroscience , bioengineering , immunology and microbial sciences , stem cell and regenerative biology , and systems biology as key areas that have the potential to connect fundamental science with clinical applications . <URL> includes a an " emphasis on interdisciplinary research and graduate education in order to expand our leadership in important fields and the collaborative atmosphere across our campuses . " They are <URL> Data Science , Engineering Biology , Global Health , Infectious Diseases , Neuroscience , Photonics , and Urban Health . <URL> of Cultures and Communication , Digital Futures , Health and Wellbeing , Sustainable Societies , and Transformative Technologies
I doubt anyone would consider a table format as plagiarized when used to show new data . It would be akin to saying use of Tukey 's box-and-whisker type plots would be plagiarism . The question is understandable , however , since someone could arguably claim some such structure as intellectual property . I think the key here lies in what is being copied . You are copying the structure but not the content . To protect the form would be quite pointless since no-one would buy the rights and it would be simple to make sufficient variations to argue it is not the same form . I am sure this could be discussed at length by lawyers . Although , not within the scope of your question , most author 's will be happy to see something they produce becoming reused and maybe even a standard . I had a figure in a paper that was picked up by IPCC and used to show something different than my original but still unequivocally based on my design . So in the end , as suggested in comments to your question . you can pay homage to the original by acknowledging the idea of the table in your acknowledgement or by citing the paper and stating the table is based on their table . Which makes most sense , will depend on circumstances in your paper .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
I always use Dr. ______ whenever I am e-mailing someone at a university and do not know if they have a doctorate . If they do have a doctorate , I have n't insulted them . If they do n't , they chuckle and are pleased .
My feeling is that whether including a link is a good idea or a bad idea depends on how you are using it . A statement of purpose should be a generally self-contained document . Thus : If your statement of purpose is difficult to fully comprehend without following the link , it would be in a problem ( whether in computer science or elsewhere ) If the statement of purpose is complete without the link , however , and the link is essentially an faster alternative to googling for more information , then I would find it a useful courtesy to the reader .
No , you should not put the university logo in the letter . You are not representing your university in an official capacity in a statement of purpose , and therefore using the university 's logo would be inappropriate , as you would be suggesting an official imprimatur for your work .
I do n't know the relevant laws , which may vary between U.S. states , but I would n't focus on the legal question . Regardless of whether you have the legal right to make a recording , you should not do so without the speaker 's permission . If someone asked me , I would probably give permission , but making a recording without asking feels creepy and inappropriate . If you go around doing this in academia , it 's likely to be viewed as unprofessional , and some speakers will become angry . Even if you ask , people may wonder why you want a recording . ( Are you stalking the speaker ? Are you going to scrutinize the recording to try to find misstatements ? Are you working on competing research and trying to document exactly what was said in your competitor 's talk ? ) If you have a compelling reason to make a recording , it 's worth explaining why . For example , perhaps it could help accommodate certain disabilities . Otherwise , you can certainly ask , but it may come across as a weird request .
Personally , I am a big believer of footnotes . They enable additional information to be added , without distracting the reader from the main argument . However , others will not share my position . One test I like to apply before adding a footnote is : can I include the footnote text in the main body ? If I can do so without hindering the reader , then I tend to do so .
As you 've described it , this sounds rather odd . Reviewers are under no obligation to accept a paper to review , so to accept one and then submit what sounds from your description like a complete cop-out is strange behaviour . It 's also a bit odd for the editor to send you completely uninformative comments . It 's possible that they genuinely did write a review , but that the text has been copied mistakenly , either by the reviewer or by the editor . It might therefore be worth sending a brief email to the editor to enquire about this review . Something along the lines of : " Thank you for consideration of our paper . In the copy that I received one of the reviews does not contain any comments , only text from our paper . I just wanted to double-check that the correct version has been sent through , in order to make sure that I can respond effectively to all of the reviewers . " Be very polite , and make sure you phrase it as a request for clarification , rather than a complaint . If it turns out it was their genuine review , you are of course allowed to care - it 's a bit frustrating if one of the reviewers has not fulfilled their role properly . But it 's not a big deal , and there 's not much that you can or should do about it . Some journals only get comments from two reviewers anyway , so just think of it that way and ignore the third .
Unlike Dave and Henry , I am going to argue against the style , though not against inclusion of content serving the same purpose . Quite some time ago , I took to heart advice by <URL> on this , which can be found <URL> ( slide 21 ) , also echoed by <URL> in his <URL> . In essence it boils down to this : Do n't write The rest of this paper is structured as follows . Section 2 introduces the problem . Section 3 ... Finally , Section 8 concludes . That is most of the time only a waste of paper . Instead , use forward references from the narrative in the introduction . The introduction ( including the contributions ) should survey the whole paper , and therefore forward reference every important part . In a consequence , the position I take on this part of writing introduction is that while it is important to inform the reader about the structure of the paper so that he/she can take the path of few surprises and easily follow the discourse , it should be however done with style . Doing it in such a poor manner as " The paper is structured as follows ... " is simply bad literature . I would argue , that it is better to firstly , clearly state the contribution of the paper and then write up the paper 's plot summary leading from the introduction to the culmination of the paper in supporting the claimed contributions and discussion . I mention the references to the individual sections , and sometimes even deeper structural parts , only in passing , or include them in parentheses . On a similar note , regarding section , I took to heart the advice of <URL> on <URL> . Citing other authors , he suggest to simply drop the conclusions part from papers and put all the important conclusions into the introductory section . Well , unless there really is something important to say there . Since then , I conclude my papers either directly by a loose paragraph at the end of the section ( renamed usually ) , or if I feel like there is something important to say , by a standalone short section . However , never re-iterating what was done in the paper . The reader is anyway free to " rewind/relist " in the paper ( see the very last point by <URL> ) . P.S. . The links to homepages of the two guys include many more good tutorials on aspects of writing/research in computer science .
There are two separate issues here : omitting the proof , and calling it an exercise . It is relatively common to omit some proofs in research papers . In particular , proofs that are long but routine , or that re-use the same method as other proofs in the paper , are often abbreviated or removed . It depends on the intended audience for the paper , to some extent . You will get a sense of this by reading more research papers . But caution is needed : one of the first places to look for errors in a paper is in results where the proof was omitted ! The question whether to call something in your paper an " exercise " is more difficult . I would n't be surprised if some people do it -- but some people do n't write very well . The audience for a paper includes your peers , and you are not really in a position to assign them homework . There are other ways to indicate that a proof is easy besides calling it an exercise : " the following theorem follows directly from definitions " , " the proof of the following theorem is routine " , " the proof of the following theorem is similar to the proof of Theorem 1.3 " , etc. . Giving a small hint of how to prove the result can make the paper stronger , and it helps any readers who are not experts in the area .
In anthropology , it 's pretty common to use local terms in both the title and subtitle . Almost everyone romanizes the terms rather than using the native script . And they leave explanations and glosses to the body of the dissertation itself . That being said , when it comes time to submit to a book publisher , they 're more hesitant about local terms in titles . The issue is that they are legible only to people who already know the local language or culture , so you 've automatically limited the appeal of your book . But there have been some notable exceptions : Travesti : Sex , Gender , and Culture Among Brazilian Transgendered Prostitutes Toms and Dees : Transgender Identity and Female Same-Sex Relationships in Thailand The Soul of Anime : Collaborative Creativity and Japan 's Media Success Story In the examples above , the exceptions prove the rule by either being obvious to English speakers ( " travesti " = ? transvestite ? ) , close to English ( " Tom " is obvious , " Dee " adds an element of curiousity ) , or already a loan word in English ( " anime " ) .
It is n't much clear as to why Mr. K would insist you to work with Ms. E . It might be either of the following It might most probably of Ms. E 's suggestion/influence . They might be on the same team ( @virmaior 's point ) Mr. K has just got another student he prefers over you . To figure out why and how to react bases on why , @demitau 's suggestion would be most appropriate ; speaking openly with Mr. K should provide a solution . If the answer to the last question is what you require ( how to let Ms. E know I 'd rather work with Mr. K ? ) then the most diplomatic approach is to say something like this : state that you feel much honoured to work with her . But it seems you current research interest are much inclined to that of Mr. K. Hence the decision .
end question
start question
What do you need to work in administration at universities ?
Usually you apply for these types of bottom - and mid-tier positions through the human resources ( HR ) departments of the universities . This is the same in the UK or the USA . If you search on the HR website , they will give jobs and the requirements for those jobs . For example , the first example below is a job posting that I pulled from the University of Illinois HR department 's website . You will note that it requires a high-school degree or GED . This is rather typical . When I last hired a staff person , we required an Associates degree or equivalent work experience . The " equivalent work experience " allows us to hire people without an AA degree if we feel that they have enough skills even without the credentials . The second example below is from Cambridge University in the UK . It notes that you must have at least A levels for this position . Note that many universities in the USA have union contracts for their clerical and technical staff . This makes applying for jobs as an outsider very difficult because the union contracts usually stipulate that jobs are first filled from job pool candidates ( i.e. , union members ) . This may likely be true for the UK as well .
A good question . Why would the school make this investment ( which could be closer to $ 100K/year ) ? As pointed out , if you are TAing/grading/teaching , you are providing services that the school charges undergraduates for . The funding of a university is not entirely like that of a business . Some of the money is a direct investment in purely academic pursuits , especially that from grants . Educating people and doing basic research is part of what that money is allocated for . Averaged over all the graduate students , the direct value that they provide to the university in terms of research which goes on to get grants/prestige/donations / patents is substantial . There is a non-trivial chance that you will become a wealthy donor to the school .
The cynical answer is " nothing " . But in truth there are other ways to monitor progress and dole out rewards/lack of reward . If your productivity drops off a cliff after tenure , you 're unlikely to get promoted to full professor ( US-specific ) , and get the associated salary increases etc. . You may be comfortable with this ( less service is a good thing ! ) Some universities do 5-yearly post-tenure review . Doing poorly on such reviews can lead to loss of raises , reduced access to new space and facilities , increased service load ( if you 're not pulling in funding or teaching well for example ) , and so on . but ultimately , the final incentive is your own desire to perform . It 's very hard to fire faculty . But administrators can try to kill entire departments .
I 'd recommend waiting a week or two to see whether you get a response to your withdrawal . At this stage it ca n't be urgent to resubmit immediately , and having their reply would guarantee that they are aware that you have withdrawn the paper . ( By contrast , I do n't think an e-mail read receipt means much . For all you know , an administrative assistant opened the e-mail and then mistakenly deleted it without realizing what it said . ) I would n't go so far as to say you are required to wait for a response , but better safe than sorry . I think you 've got a much bigger issue to worry about , though , and that 's why you withdrew the paper after acceptance . At least in mathematics , withdrawing an accepted paper is extremely unusual . To a first approximation , it typically means there 's something seriously wrong with either the paper or the journal . You can certainly do it , but given the effort that has gone into handling and refereeing the paper , you will cause offense if you do n't have a very good reason . If you inadvertently submitted the paper to a junk or predatory journal , then you do n't need to worry about causing offense . ( Offending the editors of predatory journals is not a bad thing . ) In that case , withdrawing the paper is certainly the right decision . If you dreadfully screwed up in your choice of journal , for example by submitting a brilliant breakthrough to a respectable but not impressive journal without realizing how good the paper was , then you should apologize profusely for wasting everyone 's time . Hopefully they 'll understand that it was a genuine mistake on your part , and they 'll sympathize with the awkward position you are in and give their blessing to resubmitting elsewhere . If the paper is seriously flawed , then that 's a respectable reason to withdraw it . You might look bad for having submitted it , but then again , the referee did n't find the mistake either . But this is n't a compelling reason to submit elsewhere soon : if you do n't check whether the original journal is willing to publish the revised paper , then it looks like the changes were just an excuse to withdraw the paper . Under normal circumstances , it will cause offense if people think you are withdrawing an accepted paper just to try your luck at a more prestigious journal . In particular , this is a dangerous impression to leave if you ever hope to submit to this journal again . As an editor , I would certainly not be happy to see a new submission from an author who had previously withdrawn an accepted paper without a compelling excuse . All this gives you another reason to move slowly and wait for a reply . If you have a good reason for withdrawal , then it 's worth making sure you have communicated it clearly . In any case , you are doing something rather unusual and serious , and it 's best not to give the impression you are treating it lightly or casually .
Off the top of my head , I can think of American CS faculty who have been supported by grants , contracts , or gifts from each of the following : US funding agencies : DARPA , Department of Defense , Department of Energy , National Instutites of Health , Department of Homeland Security , Office of Naval Research , Army Research Office , Department of Education , NASA , ... Foreign funding agencies ( usually in concert with NSF , for international collaborations ) : Deutsche Forshungsgemeinschaft ( Germany ) , Centre national de la recherche scientifique ( France ) , Israeli Science Foundation , Danish National Research Foundation , ... Private foundations : Sloan , Packard , Simons , Fulbright , Guggenheim , ... Industry : Google , Microsoft , Facebook , Cisco , Boeing , Adobe , NVidia , ...
Almost every aspect of the job has politics invovled . Who teaches which classes , on what days and in which rooms . The distribution of TA support . What committees you serve on and what roles you play on those committees . Which lab space and office space you get . Rotation of sabbatical and research leaves . If there is any departmental funding , how it is spent . The hiring of new faculty and the admission of PhD students . I have even seen fights over what types of pens are kept in the supply closet . Generally as a new faculty , there are certain thing in your contract and other thing agreed to verbally and in emails . In toxic environments , and even in some good environments , these things will come under attack . Even things in you contract will come under attack from colleagues who want to take advantage of you . That is not to say it is all bad and not all colleagues will be out to get you . In good departments there will be more people looking out for you and only a handful of bad apples .
In academia , one lists things related to accomplishments and dissemination of research in the CV . This typically includes things like papers or preprints , software , as well as presentations one gives . In particular , your list of presentations gives one piece of information into how active you are in your research community . So yes , assuming your poster presentations are academic/research related , it 's appropriate to put them in your CV , though in-class presentations are typically not included . General comments : a CV is different than a resume so there 's a lot of flexibility in what you include and how you format it . Still , there are some dos and do n'ts . You can find loads of example CVs online , but it might be most helpful for you to look at sample CVs of young researchers ( students , postdocs ) in your field for some models . Specific comments : there are different ways you can organize your presentations , but my suggestion is make a section titled presentations , and within that two subsections , one for oral presentations or " talks " and one for poster presentations . Then for each presentation , list the title , venue including conference name and date . E.g. From Cervantes to Swift , 33rd AEIOU Conference , University of Lillipilut , Mildendo , Lilliput , April 1 , 1726 .
Tough to predict how it will be handled with certainty . You could list the scholarship but then say in your SoP something along these lines : " I 've earned in fact ( a prestigious ? ) scholarship from my home government which would allow me to ... however it comes with a requirement that ... which frankly I 'd prefer not to commit to . Thus I would much rather be admitted with financial support from the university , in which case I would turn down the government scholarship . " For highly ranked research universities , I 'd say it is not common for Ph.D. students to be self-funded . That said , if they can grab a strong student who is self-funded , what 's not to like ? :)
Offering to give a presentation about your work sounds like a very good idea . I would suggest contacting the professor as soon as possible saying that you would be keen to present your work . By giving them early notice , you give them the chance to either arrange something for you , or to pass your details onto anybody in the wider department who may run the sorts of seminars/colloquiums where such talks often take place . In terms of other things you could do , if they 've already told you that you 'll be introduced to other members of the research team then that sounds like a lot of that will be organised for you . Another thing you may want to consider is to see what other regularly seminars , journal clubs , research groups , etc. already exist that might be of interest to you . If this is somewhere that you may have the opportunity to go and work at then you want to have the fullest sense of what your working environment would be like . As for putting it on your CV , I 'm not entirely sure that a visit is entirely relevant . If it was a visiting job then include it , but something casual like this probably not . It is the sort of thing that may be well worth discussing ( if it 's relevant ) in a cover letter or supporting statement that goes alongside applications .
From less esoteric to more ( I 've seen all these things happen ) : Make sure you know how to " send the image to a projector " . Not all laptops do this automatically , and I 'm surprised at how many people do n't know how to do it . I 've also seen people be confused by the mirroring feature on Macs . Verify that there 's a power outlet or some place to plug in your laptop . Driving a projector eats power , and you do n't want to drain your battery during the presentation Turn off screen savers . at the very least it 's annoying , and sometimes the screen saver does wonky things to the projector display . Turn off your notifications ( mail , facebook , twitter , skype ... ) . It 's amusing for an audience ( but not for you ) if during a job talk they all get to see a subject header of the form " Interview at University X " where X is not where you 're at :) Make sure you have the right display converters . Usually something that converts your laptop to a VGA is standard . Macs are particularly difficult in this regard . Watch out for resolution issues . Most laptops are smart enough to drop resolution to deal with a projector , but sometimes they 're not . Keep a backup copy of the slides in a portable format ( PDF or PPT ) on a usb stick . In the worst-case you can always borrow a laptop ( from the previous speaker even ) and load up the slides . Dropbox/a web page is ok but not great because it requires an internet connection . And above all , as David M. R. says , check the setup beforehand if you can . Even that does n't guarantee a smooth presentation , but it eliminates a lot of the potential problems listed above .
ff524 's answer is awesome as usual , but the core problem for you may be that most of these suggestions are not , or at least not directly , useful to your research . If , as you say , most of your day is spent in this way , even " productive procrastination " may be too much procrastination and too little actual progress . In that case , you have two options : Learn how to get actual work done in those short chunks . Being able to context-switch without getting thrown off completely is definitely a skill that can be learned . You will probably never get as efficient as when you can devote your full attention to the task , and you will likely need to double-check what you did while multi-tasking , but getting things done slower than usual is much better than not getting anything done at all . Automate better ( and , hence , increase the time between needing to check up on your results ) . In my experience , if you need to actually check every other minute or so what your experiments are doing , then your tooling is not good enough . Many things can be scripted so that they basically run from beginning to end on their own . Further , you can configure a system monitoring tool so that it ( for instance ) sends you an email when something abnormal happens . Of course this requires non-trivial IT skills , but in my experience most students working in experimental sciences are able to grok these things quite quickly if they devote a few days to it ( believe me , the time necessary to learn how to automate pays off manifold in the long run ) . In practice , you probably want to go for a combination of both of these options . Try to increase the time your experiments are chugging along on their own . In parallel , train making the best use out of this time . Edit : This question has been added by the OP in a comment . I think it is interesting , hence I added it to my answer : what can you do in the case of active code development ? For example , when I am actively developing a piece of code to analyze data , that code may take a few minutes ( up to 10 ) to run , after which I assess if it is working . How do you automate that process ? This has actually more to do with standard software engineering practices than the sciences , but I think it is a helpful concept nonetheless . When you are trying out different implementations , with a large possibility of error , make sure that your application fails fast . That is , make it so that your application does not take ten minutes to fail , but does the complex , error-prone stuff directly in the beginning . Two simple examples from my own research : Example 1 : Say you do research in Machine Learning . Your application first trains an <URL> ( ANN ) on your data ( easy as you are using an external library , but takes ~ 15 minutes due to algorithmic complexity ) , after which you do some postprocessing ( trivial , executes fast ) and a statistical analysis of the results ( executes fast as well , but relatively complex , error-prone code ) . If you now always run the entire application and have the code fail during the statistical analysis , you are always losing 15 minutes for every run for a step that you already know works . A better solution would be to train the model once , and store it to disk . Then write code that only loads the ANN from disk and fails directly after that . Almost no dead time anymore . When the statistical analysis is working , you can revert to do everything in the expected order . Example 2 : You have written a complex , multi-threaded testbed , which is running distributed over multiple physical servers . You know you have a synchronization issue somewhere , as your application non-deterministically dies every couple of minutes . You have no idea where exactly . Hence , you repeatedly execute the entire application , wait for the error to happen , and then debug from there in different directions . Given that the error only happens every few minutes , you spend most of your time waiting . A better way is to take a page out of good software engineering practices . Make sure to <URL> all components in isolation before throwing everything together . Specifically try to cover exceptional cases . Learn how to write good <URL> . Some amount of debugging of the integration system will still be necessary , but you will not spend hours debugging components that are fundamentally broken .
Why not ask your supervisor to give you examples of what editing he wants done and see if its something you can do on your own ? If you 've worked on the paper up to the 5th draft , it seems a shame to then allow someone else to take the credit for your own hard work . You can also read some good books on academic style of writing . Depending on your field , I can recommend this <URL> . I 'm sure there are <URL> . So in summary , if I were in your shoes I would do it on my own . I 'm sure good writing skills is something that 's valued even in most jobs .
I had a similar situation , there were a few papers I assisted with as an undergraduate where I was listed in the acknowledgements but was n't listed as an author . Generally , people do n't list those on their CV , simply because it will look odd ... you 'll get a lot of people asking , " why are you listing this if your name is n't on it ? " That said , since it 's your CV , you can list anything you want with the proper commentary . You may consider listing it as : < Citation goes here > Note : I am listed in the acknowledgements section for this paper , as I assisted extensively with data preparation and analysis . Do realize that the fact that your name is n't on the paper will significantly decrease it 's value in your promoting yourself . The more I think about it , it 's probably a bad idea to list it ... I would recommend just listing the work you did in the appropriate section on your CV and leave the paper out .
I believe you should do what is better to the audience . In some disciplines/communities it is strongly assumed that conference participants read the abstracts/papers before the presentation , and expect the discussion to follow precisely the material that is published . In this case , of course , you could only comment briefly on the recent changes you 've made . In other fields ( such as mine ) , the abstracts are used only as a means to ( roughly ) describe the topic of the presentation . It is quite normal to extend the actual talk beyond the scope of the abstract , or reduce the role of some pieces of research advertised in the abstract . In this case , I 'd advise you to make a talk that is simply interesting for you and the audience . It can probably include both the original design and your contribution to its recent development . Make sure people in the room understand why the changes were needed , how you have worked them out , and what is the benefits of your new architecture .
Presenting work in progress on conferences is a good way to elicit a first discussion of your ( preliminary ) research results , to establish yourself in a new topic , or to claim first ground in a " hot " research area . The important thing to me seems to be that you are able to present at least some results . Research concepts and plans often do not yield good conference papers . There 's a number of ways in which results can be regarded as premature , such that you would want to present them as " work in progress " . I 'll give some of them without claim of completeness : In empirical research : Small amount of data compared to the standard in your field . Contradictory results which prevent firm conclusions . Low amount of replicates or additional supportive data for your conclusions . Experimental setups which may not capture or control for relevant factors in the system you 're looking at . In theoretical research : Restrictive assumptions which make a theory applicable to only a fraction of the relevant problems . Evaluation of a method with a smaller or more restricted test case than what would be done usually . Mathematical results from numerical experiments without a clear proof . Missing steps in an implementation such that only partial results could be obtained . In many cases , it is a difficult decision , whether you should publish preliminary results ( in case they are publishable in principle ) or rather wait until you get more complete results . It depends on how fast you want to publish something on the topic , whether you can quickly get more complete results or not , and probably a range of other factors which I did n't think of now .
Contrasting your work with earlier work on the same topic ( same or related questions ) is a crucial part of a scientific publication . You have to explain to the reader what makes your approach better ( or worse ) depending on the exact problem to solve . Now , whether you should do this in the section devoted to review of the existing literature is debatable . There are no strict rules , so as long as you do it somewhere and the paper is clearly readable , just do what seems best to you . If you have trouble writing , I would suggest you separate the content into a simpler form : State of the art : review of the existing literature . What problems are solved , what are remaining questions , where can we make progress . This is the motivation of your work . Your methodology Your results Discussion of how these results compare to earlier work : you 're doing better than A and B on large matrices , but the approach means that you will be slower than C on sparse matrices , that sort of stuff .
This is a really big question , which unfortunately has no simple answer . Some short comments : Universities have very little choice about subscribing to journals , as long they publish good papers , since faculty need access to those papers to do their research . The solution has to start on the publishing side . Collaborating to create free , open access , peer-reviewed journals is a fine idea , but either you need to convince universities to support this financially , or you need to recruit enormous numbers of dedicated volunteers . ( Whenever this topic comes up , someone is sure to point out that volunteers run some free , high-quality online journals . Of course they do , but the question is how to recruit hundreds of times as many volunteers . ) Printing is a non-issue . Everything is already available online , with printed copies only for those who want them . In a mathematics context , see <URL> and <URL> for more details .
No , Students do n't need a book . They DO need good resources . Maybe its an eBook or a PDF compiled from your teaching notes or outline/slides ( Hopefully cited well ) and things like short stories needed for a language class can often be found online in their entirity , for free legally , when copyright has expired . For a language class , using a Sherlock Holmes story could prevent students from needing to buy a book as they 're out of copyright . You can also look for material that is licensed as <URL> which allows for free use , such as material from MIT open courseware , Khan Academy , and P2P Univerity . You can learn more about <URL> . Long story short , make good content , and use it legally , either by using stuff people have given to the public , or under doctrines such as Fair Use .
Search the web for it : open archives , search engine , authors webpages , whatever ( you 've probably done that already ... ) Ask the contact author for a copy , which she 'll usually be very happy to provide . I regularly get such requests from other researchers in my field , and it feels very good to know that people are actually interested in your work . If the contact author does n't respond , try the senior author , then other authors . Try your local library . Look into their database , and also ask the librarian there if the document might be available through loan from other libraries . I 've never had much success doing that , but you never know ... Ask a few colleagues at different institutions if they can get it for free ( see <URL> ) . If you have friends at large/famous/well-funded US universities ( Princeton , Harvard , ... ) , they probably have a more comprehensive access than you . If it 's a really important paper , pay for it ! Whatever happens , make sure you make a copy for others in your lab/group , and archive it . When I started my PhD , there was a folder ( the heavy paper type , not the computer type ) labeled " important but hard to find papers " that the group had accumulated along the years . It was the most treasured object in the whole lab .
From your comments it sounds like a Setup-to-fail syndrome . <URL> The Wiki article is a bit iffy , but it basically means that he somewhat has low expectations of your performance after some incident . Thereby , when something happens he assumes is your fault because he has low expectations nevertheless . Is usually a toxic relationship because is self fulfilling ( you 'll end up making mistakes , because he wants to ) and self reinforcing ( the mistake you just did helps him reinforce the idea that you 'll make more ) . Is a vicious circle that has to be addressed by both you and your boss ( PI , manager , etc ) . But is usually a good idea to have some other people on your side . Ultimately , if he is unwilling to change , it is better for you to leave for a less toxic environment .
end question
start question
What is normally done if there is an underspending of a research grant ?
First , you need to plan expenditures to make sure you do n't end up with too much money at the end of the project . If you have grants , you 're essentially running a small business . It 's your job and responsibility to have a budget , plan with and for it , and to track expenditures . If , however , for reasons that may not have been under your control , you end up with unspent money at the end of the grant period , you can often ask funding agencies to give you an extension of the project . For example , the National Science Foundation pretty regularly provides a one-year no-cost extension on " normal " grants . To get a second year , however , you probably need to have good reasons , or they will take the money back .
In general , I refrain from initiating any physical contact other than handshakes or " congratulatory " gestures such as high-fives or fist bumps . This allows the student to control the level of interaction if they so choose . My suspicion about what would be considered " acceptable " is that it varies widely from country to country , depending on what is considered an " acceptable " level of contact between strangers or professional colleagues . For instance , in Muslim-dominated countries , the " side-hug " mentioned in the answer -- or even shaking of hands -- between a male boss and a female subordinate , or vice versa , would likely be frowned upon ! Similarly , in other countries , I could see how a " side-hug " could be within the realm of acceptable contacts ( although still on the somewhat " iffy " side ) .
This professor was just trying to reassure the folks who are feeling doubtful or worried . Bottom line : if you feel worried about something , that 's okay , it 's a common phenomenon , and feeling that way is nothing to worry about ; if you do n't feel worried about something , great ! No need to feel worried !
As someone who 's tried to do both , there are some very valid reasons to prepare " formal " lecture notes . The primary reason why you 'd want to create your own notes is that for many courses , a single good text is not available , and as a result , the instructor has to cobble together material from a number of different sources to produce a coherent set of lecture notes -- or recommend that students work with multiple source texts . ( Given the out-of-control nature of textbook prices , the latter alternative is unlikely to work out well . ) If you have a single-text class , it may not be necessary to provide students an additional set of notes , provided your lectures stick to the main text material . However , if you bring in alternative or additional topics into your lectures , you may want to include notes for those topics , and refer students to the textbook for places where you follow the " standard " outline .
Linguistics Ph.D. admissions is unusual in that no particular background is necessarily required . The reason is that many institutions do not offer a linguistics major , so the pool of linguistics majors is small . In addition , linguistics is highly interdisciplinary . To answer your question more specifically , if you want to enter computational linguistics , some programming ability is essential . A bachelor 's degree in any of the disciplines you mention may be sufficient . I would also add psychology , anthropology , and foreign language backgrounds as potential entry points for a linguistics Ph.D. . You must also be prepared to learn statistics .
An abstract is a preliminary submission that summarizes the contribution of a paper . There are usually strict limits on the length of an abstract , either in terms of words or of total characters ( rarely do they exceed 1000 words or 5000 characters ; they are often substantially shorter than this . An extended abstract and a full paper are nearly the same ; the primary difference is that an extended abstract tends to be somewhat shorter than a full paper ; I 've seen extended abstracts from 2 pages up to 6 pages , while conference papers run from 4 up to about 12 or 15 , depending on the space allotted . One other important difference -- outside of computer science , extended abstracts almost never go through a formal peer-review process before being published , while a conference paper will typically have at least one reviewer . ( I think this is the case for almost all such papers , but there may be exceptions . )
I think most researchers want to influence and possibly work in different areas , but we ca n't all be revolutionaries in several fields . There are two opposing issues that one needs to balance at any stage of academia ( or that pesky thing called life ) : Doing anything significant usually takes real time and effort Each individual has limited resources , such as time and effort As research has progressed over the past centuries things have gotten more specialized and there indeed has been a necessary tendency for researchers to focus on more and more narrow aspects of science . However , the branches of science are highly interconnected , and fundamental work in one area often has ramifications in many areas ( which the original research may or may not be involved with ) . Recently , there has been more emphasis on interdisciplinary research , which it sounds like the kind of thing you are interested in . So this opportunity is certainly available for researchers who are interested . However , interdisciplinary research is easier with certain specialities than others . ( If you run a lab with lots of specialized equipment , you will be limited by the capabilities of the equipment . ) For instance , interdisciplinary work seems to be pretty common with people who do mathematical biology , or more generally applied math/statistics . They often collaborate with different specialists in different fields/subfields who want to apply mathematical techniques/models to their problems , and in the process learn something about that particular subfield . My suggestion , if you want to go this direction , is look for an advisor in graduate school who does ( and if possible , whose students do ) interdisciplinary research that you find exciting . Another way to influence people in different areas is through teaching , giving lectures and writing textbooks . Yet another way is by working for a grant agency or as a policy advisor , to help decide what research gets funded . Working for a scientific publishing company , as you mention , is also a possiblity , but journal editors are professional researchers . Similarly , university administration is run by professors . Thus there are many options , but these typically require specialized knowledge , so the preparation is the same as becoming a researcher .
If you were asked to re-review an " unchanged " manuscript there are a number of things you can do ( e.g. , <URL> ) . The issue is that this is not the case . You are no longer part of the review process . The first thing you should do is STOP . The behavior you have engaged in so far has been completely unethical and a clear violation of every reviewer agreement I have ever seen . Your colleague should never have told you about the paper under review . You should not have mention that you reviewed a similar paper in the past . Neither of you should have mentioned authors or the title . The actual manuscripts should never have been shared and/or compared To a lesser extent , it is not even clear why you still have your copy of the manuscript . The Committee on Publication Ethics ( COPE ) provides <URL> which can be thought of as best practice . These include : respect the confidentiality of peer review and not reveal any details of a manuscript or its review , during or after the peer-review process , beyond those that are released by the journal not involve anyone else in the review of a manuscript , including junior researchers they are mentoring , without first obtaining permission from the journal ; the names of any individuals who have helped them with the review should be included with the returned review so that they are associated with the manuscript in the journal 's records and can also receive due credit for their efforts . keep all manuscript and review details confidential .
I do not believe that the problem is fundamentally about space , but rather is a cultural problem that stems from three things : Reviewers do not demand clarity in their mathematics There is often a perception that " fancy " or " difficult " math means more important science ( related to # 1 ) Really clear presentation of mathematics is difficult and takes a lot of work ( <URL> ) Ultimately , a community tends to get what it rewards . There is no reason that math must be impenetrable . Even if one is faced with a space problem , you can play the same sort of games that you do with figures and data in order to fit . Right now , however , it is typically understood and accepted that you do n't have to do that with your mathematics . In fact , some scientific communities will punish a researcher for presenting mathematics more clearly , because it makes the work look " less significant . " Technology can not help solve this , because ultimately it is a problem of human communication . Anyone who is bothered by mathematical impenetrability can , however , take their own small steps towards changing this culture : In your own work : Include tables and clear explanations in your papers . Use as few symbols as possible , and choose the symbols to improve clarity , e.g. , matching the symbol to the first letter of its description . Buffer your equations with explanatory prose that restates their content in plain English . When considering other people 's work : Call out mathematical impenetrability as a reviewer Ask for tables , clear prose , etc. in the papers that you review View the mathematical impenetrability of a work as a flaw rather than a good thing . This is a very difficult problem , and unlikely to change any time soon , but it can be made better one paper at a time . Moreover , it is my belief ( and experience ) , that clearer mathematics can make for a higher impact and better cited paper , so it will likely be valuable to you in the short term as well , unless you are in a community that has a toxic relationship to mathematical impenetrability .
Besides <URL> , there is <URL> ; and there is also reddit.com . Reddit is most like SE in terms of user interaction , however they have some problems with quality control . It is " open " in the sense that anyone can offer material and make a comment ( review ) : it is " not entirely open " in the sense that authors and reviewers have the option of using a pseudonym , so real identities are usually not known . The other two sites are open in the latter sense , that authors and reviewers are openly identified ( as far as I can tell ) , but peerageofscience requires reviewers to " have published a peer reviewed scientific article in an established international journal , as first or corresponding author " , so it is closed to reviewers without that credential . ( I am not sure about peerevaluation but it does not seem to require any qualifications from reviewers though it does ask you to categorize yourself ) .
Although far from perfect , <URL> is one citation-based indicator often used to quantify how quickly a field or journal is moving . It basically looks at how long a paper takes to get half of all its citations . So for example , a fast moving field might have a citation half-life of 4 years , whereas a slower moving field might have a citation half-life of over 10 years . In the Journal Citation Reports you can see these values for each journal . Of course , there is the question of what exactly this means . For example , I believe fields like statistics and mathematics have much longer citation half lives , perhaps because seminal articles remain important . Understanding citation half-life is also important when you want to compare impact factors for journals across fields , or compare citation counts and h-indexes across scholars .
It depends on the university . At most of the universities in the UK I know , a position is usually called research fellow if it either is a temporary position or a position with less teaching obligations . However , there is no general rule about what one calls a research fellow . It may even be different from department to department ( Oxford is an interesting example , there it can mean pretty much everything ) . If it is a suitable academic career option depends therefore more on the university itself and the conditions of the position ( how much teaching , is it a permanent position ? ) , than on the name of the position . About the difference between the countries : There are large differences between countries , not only in the names ( which differ of course , due to different languages ) . For example in Germany most positions are only temporary positions without tenure track .
Affiliate faculty are common in many university departments . This indicates faculty who have a departmental home ( faculty line , voting rights , tenure and promotion line , office space ) but for a variety of reasons are given courtesy appointments ( sometimes called in the USA as 0 FTE appointments ) in another department . This may be because they teach a crosslisted course or occasionally sit on doctoral committees of the other department , or occasionally just for the academic lulz ( ie , they requested an affiliation and there was no reason to deny it ) . Affiliate faculty rarely occasionally ( depending on discipline and university ) serve as chairs of doctoral committees and similarly are rarely/occasionally ( depending on discipline ) given students in that department to supervise . Their ability though to sit as members on committees is useful if you were to want to do a project in geophysics ( in this case ) but otherwise you can ignore them . Note that this is different from faculty with dual appointments where their faculty line is split ( 0.5 FTE in one department , 0.5 in another ) . They have voting and advisory rights in both departments . TL ; DR : Do n't worry about affiliate faculty . Focus on the core faculty and their strengths when making decisions .
The big underlying question here is what it means for a paper to be " related to a grant " . Different funding agencies have different rules on this , either a more " staff-oriented view " or a more " topic-oriented view " . Many pure science funds , for instance the <URL> , take a liberal stance on what kind of science can be enabled through each individual project . Essentially , while a project is given to support a specific idea , they are fully aware and quite happy that in addition to , and sometimes instead of , this project , other more or less related studies will also happen by the staff paid partly or in full through the project . At the end of the day , the SNF and other similar agencies care not so much about the specific piece of science that is described in the project , but that some valuable science is happening and that PhD students are graduating . Based on this view , researchers funded through SNF are expected to acknowledge them on every paper they do , no matter if it has to do with any of the science described in the project description . The collection of all papers acknowledging this project is then not understood as " all papers on topic X " , but rather " all topics enabled by funding project Y , on topic X and any side projects that the funded students did in addition or instead " . Other , especially more applied funds such as most of the European Commission 's <URL> programme , are much more interested in specific topics than in funding just about any research . For them , acknowledgements have much more the meaning that you seem to imply , that is , that citing this project in the acknowledgements of the paper implies that this contributes to the mission of the project . How strongly this is enforced or checked depends on the project officer . Most people also seem to take a rather liberal approach in practice , but there are certainly project officers that have formally complained about projects using the allocated funds to sponsor other research . Might he go into troubles if it is discovered by the funding agency that the papers are actually not related to the grant proposal ? So at the end of the day , it really depends on whether the agency actually considers this " topically unrelated but financially enabled by the grant " paper as " unrelated " . I would say , in absence of any other information , you can safely assume that your co-author did nothing wrong , and that the agency may be fine with this acknowledgement .
In Computer Science , CiteSeerX used to provide a Venue Impact Factor , that included journals and conferences , but it seems they 've stopped doing it . As indicated by Gopi , Microsoft academic Research is some kind of global ranking , and JeffE also mentions google.scholar . That being said , a global ranking , across sub-fields , is not necessarily meaningful . For instance , if one does not work on programming languages , then it 's unlikely to submit a paper at POPL ( the first venue according to CiteseerX ) . Hence , I 'd say that field-specific rankings matter more , for instance in security : <URL> or <URL> .
I use HG , but it is essentially the same as GIT , in that branching is easy . I branch all the time when working with coauthors . The branches tend to be short lived and merged pretty quickly . Basically , I distribute a copy to my coauthors and each set of comments I get back form different branches . This lets me see each authors comments individually . I then work on merging the comments back into the main trunk . Sometimes the merge is easy and the branch is one commit long . Other times it might take longer if I need to work out something ( e.g. , math , model , or analysis ) which might require a couple of revisions before it is ready to go into the main trunk .
There are probably several answers depending on the situation and on the standards in your field . First there are papers published in journals with no authors that are referenced as : Anonymous , yyyy . Paper title ... In some cases an organization can be the author . this is true for , for example , governmental organizations , NGO 's etc. . In these cases the publications are offically published . References would be listed under the organization ( often abbreviated ) such as : WMO ( World Meteorological Organization ) , yyyy . Publication title ... To reference online material is always a bit more complicated but I guess the anonymous author can be used and the source organization listed as the " Publisher " such as the The Guardian in your example . The point is that the source is known but not the author . If you have a lot of these sources there will of course be many " anomymous " floating around in th etext and reference list which may be awkward . In such a case you may consider using the organization as author .
When you cite an article it does not mean that your work stands on the cited article in its entirety but rather it might be a particular result , an interpretation or an interesting question someone else has come up with before you . Let look at it like this : you ( Y ) cite a finding ( f1 ) by a person/group in some paper ( P1 ) , who in turn cites another finding ( f2 ) some other person/group in some paper ( P2 ) . later turns out that something in P2 does not add up and the paper gets retracted . The interesting question is whether or not the mistake or error etc in P2 is related to your work . If : scientific grounds for f2 is still valid despite the error that causes the retraction , or your f1 is independent of f2 then you are essentially safe , since the reasons for retraction does not reflect on your work/findings . In other words , you have not built your work on erroneous foundation . That beings said , I can only assume that citing a retracted paper is n't particularly nice , and if you can avoid it ( if someone else has also mentioned that same finding without going through the retracted paper ) then it 's probably better . Hope this was n't all too convoluted . . I had to rewrite it a couple of times already :)
It is considered an undergraduate degree because no degree is required in order to start the degree . Undergraduate masters degrees are increasingly common in the UK , <URL> . Postgraduate taught degrees are not currently eligible for government funding , so an integrated masters degree is often the cheapest route to a masters degree . The integrated MEng degree developed early , since an accredited masters is a requirement to become a chartered engineer in the UK . Such courses , at least in theory , include the content of a bachelors degree , plus the content of a standalone postgraduate masters degree , often with an option to abandon early and receive a bachelor 's degree . PhDs , MScs and MPhils almost invariably require a degree as an entry requirement , hence they are postgraduate degrees .
If the grant is only to reimburse you for your travel expenses ( airfare , lodging , meals , etc ) , then you should be fine with the visa waiver . You are not considered to be employed by the host institution and do not need a work visa . ( Source : Personal experience - I 've been responsible for arranging travel reimbursements for many visa-waiver visitors . ) You will probably need to document your expenses , so save receipts for airfare , lodging , meals , ground transportation , and so on .
end question
start question
How to find all of the responses to a published research paper ?
First , it may depend on your field , but at least in mine ( physics and chemistry ) , it is rare for papers to generate comments or replies , and really extraordinary for a paper to be followed by multiple comments . ( The editor usually lets the original authors reply to the comment , however . ) Some publishers provide links to the comments and replies on the webpage for the original paper . Otherwise , you can locate those comments using the following criteria : they are published in the same journal , or in a preprint server ( like <URL> ) their title includes " comment on " or " reply to " ( or other such publisher-dependent prefix that you need to identify ) Finally , you should get the list of all newer papers citing the original paper , and check them out . If you 're investigating a paper in depth , you 'll do that anyway :)
Yes . Everybody who is listed as an author should see and be able to contribute to the poster . You would n't want to be listed as an author of a work that you have never seen either , right ?
I think the best approach is to think of them as two completely separate papers . When you write the second paper you should write it as if you have read but not authored the first . You therefore need to add the necessary background and literature review to make it stand on its own . The reason for this is that anyone who finds your ( second ) paper once published will not necessarily know of the connection , may not have read the first , and will need a reasonable introduction to the subject . So , each paper should be an entity of its own . The only clear case where this may not be necessary is if you publish two papers back to back as part 1 and 2 of a series with the same main title but differing sub-titles . Then it is clear that the papers belong together and you may expect people to note and read both papers to a larger extent .
Ultimately , no , you ca n't . There 's no infrastructure to say " I want to get a single DOI for XYZ arbitrary url " . DOIs for most scholarly publications are issued through CrossRef . CrossRef do not assign DOIs directly , but delegate this to members or their agents . Members , who are usually publishers , pay a fee to the central consortium , and agree to issue DOIs based on a <URL> . As you can see from these rules , the general sense of membership is " organisations issuing DOIs for stuff they control " . While there is n't an explicit prohibition against assigning DOIs to third-party material ( which surprised me ! ) , point 4 comes pretty close : Members have an obligation to maintain the metadata and URLs associated with all registered DOIs . There is also a general prohibition of ' duplicative ' works including preprints : Crossref only registers DOIs for Definitive Works ( or Versions of Record , if not formally published ) but not for Duplicative Works , as defined in the Crossref Glossary . This means that only original scholarly material , for which there is no actual DOI at the time of submission , and no expected duplication in future , is admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Crossref does not permit multiple DOIs to be assigned to certain closely related versions of a work , and hence does not support assignment of DOIs to Pre-prints or Post-prints of Definitive Works or to the Personal Version or a Self-archived Copy of a Definitive Work . For the same reasons , materials for which DOI duplication can be reasonably anticipated , such as an Authors Original Draft of a work being prepared for publication , are not admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Putting those together , it seems likely that CrossRef 's terms would prevent a member agreeing to issue a DOI for a ( potentially duplicative ) work hosted somewhere out of their control . So , could you get a DOI from someone else , outside of CrossRef ? Probably not . DOIs are only issued through a number of central registration authorities ( eg CrossRef , DataCite ) . These have <URL> areas of activity ( eg DataCite wo n't issue DOIs for publications ) and , to the best of my knowledge , none offer a " DOI for an arbitrary URL " service .
I think of requests for revision as falling into three basic categories , sorted in order of importance : New technical results ( e.g. , additional experiments , more theorems ) Large-scale text improvement ( e.g. , reorganizing text , dealing with pervasive language issues ) Localized text improvement ( e.g. , improving explanations , adding references ) Of these , only a request for new results should be of concern as a possible road to rejection : for the other two , if you want the paper published , if one cares to one can typically always put in sufficient work to address reviewer comments . It may be hard , unpleasant , and unrewarding ( depending on the particulars ) , but this is an area where any request for revision almost always has a clear path to publication , and of a stronger paper than you started with . Requests for new technical results , on the other hand , might or might not be something that you can not reasonable address . If you can address them , then it 's still a clear road to publication of a stronger paper . If you ca n't , however , then it 's a question of scope and may be worth discussing with the handling editor to see whether they are a sine qua non for publication . In general , however , my feeling about requests for revision , even major revision , is that they 're generally good news . Once a paper hits at least a major revision , it 's highly likely to be eventually accepted if the authors just keep answering the requests for improvement , and will likely be the stronger for it . There are exceptions ( I just had one rejected by a journal for the rather unusual reason that " they only allow one revision , " ) , but in my experience these most frequently reflect an author who has chosen to fight the reviewers rather than to improve the paper .
Contact the editor you worked with and let them know . They will advise you of your options and hopefully work with you to update the online version and ( if possible ) either delay or fix the print version .
DOI 's are managed by Crossref.org . For each DOI , Crossref 's database has a redirect to the current location of that digital object , and the owners can move things around and update the Crossref database as needed . When you follow a link to <URL> ... , the crossref servers redirect this request to the current location of that paper . As mentioned in another answer you can lookup an article in the crossref.org database to see whether or not it has a DOI . Recent articles have typically been assigned a DOI by the publisher , and most publishers put the DOI on the title page of the paper so it 's easy to find that way . Older articles were originally published without a DOI , but the publisher may have assigned one after the fact . If the publisher has not already assigned a DOI , then JSTOR may have assigned a DOI to the article that will point to the copy of the article in the JSTOR database . This is a service offered to publishers by JSTOR , but not all publishers use it . Thus not all articles in JSTOR have DOI 's . It appears that the article you linked to has not been assigned a DOI by either its original publisher or JSTOR and thus has no DOI . I ca n't find the article in the crossref database . The " stable URL " that you linked to is probably the best way to link to the article .
Search committees that I know read all the letters written for the candidates in whom they are interested , though of course some people read some letters more closely than others . I will admit that at my " research-focused " university , I often read teaching letters very briefly . In my defense , many teaching letters are not worthy of more than a very brief reading . They simply do not separate out the candidate or provide any really incisive or useful information . If teaching letters are to be believed , then approximately 99.5 % of all candidates are above average teachers . Why do I find myself skeptical of this ? That said , I do n't really see much advantage to " hiding " research in a teaching letter ( or vice versa ) . If you get a teaching letter written by a " research professor " , then they may be a little nervous about not mentioning the research whatsoever or feel through force of habit that they must say something . But really , when we read a teaching letter we want to hear about teaching , so saying something at the beginning like " Dr. Ray has asked me to write about her teaching , and so I will " would be fine . You speak of a " bounded number of letters " . That must be true , but the supremum may not be what you think . In most jobs that I know of , nothing stops you from submitting more letters than the number they ask for . Past a certain point maybe it looks obnoxious : I remember one candidate for an assistant professor position that had nine letters of recommendation ( 8 research , 1 teaching , I think ) . I felt that was a bit much but we certainly did n't disqualify the guy or write back to say how many of the letters we had burned without reading . In fact he made the short list and almost got an interview . I would say : if you want to send one or two more letters than the application asks for : just do it . If you want someone to talk about your research , do n't have them do it in a way that other people might not read , or might read but dismiss because they are expecting to hear about the teaching . Just get another letter . For that matter , it is increasingly common to get more than one teaching letter even for a research job , even though I know of no research job that asks for more than one .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
As others have said , not every ( old ) article has a DOI or a URL . However , in mathematics every article since 1940 has an MR number which uniquely identifies it . So go to <URL> and look up this article . I just did , it has MR number MR0844292 . The bibliographical information on mathscinet ( like the transliteration of the author 's name ) would also be considered the " canonical information " .
The " editors " for a conference , such as they exist , would typically be the program chairs ( if that position exists ) , or the general chairs ( if it does not ) . This should be listed on the conference web site or the front matter of its proceedings .
I would ask a colleague which does speak Thai , and ask him if there are any relevant Thai publications you need to be aware of . Ofcourse this colleague needs to be in the same field you are interested in . If he or she does not know of any relevant literature , this might indicate that you are not missing any relevant research . In addition , when you are looking for papers yourself , I would Google translate the titles of the papers , and if they seem interesting I would ask a native speaking colleague to translate the abstract . If it still is interesting then you ask your colleague to read the paper together with you .
I write both weekly and daily ' to do ' lists if I 'm stuck in a procrastination routine . The weekly lists are more general , the daily ones as detailed as possible , with essentially everything I should do that day , however small it seems . It feels good to tick things off - it shows me that I made progress and gives me incentive to go on . Usually there 's one or two things on the list that I really should not postpone for tomorrow , and many less important ones . I sometimes do the big stuff first , sometimes last , it really depends on my mood that day . I also allow myself to push the smaller things to the next day if I do n't feel like doing them . That way I feel that I have some wiggle room , but it 's constrained to the stuff that does n't matter much anyway . I also noticed that I tend to be more efficient when I have something planned at the end of the day , i.e. I know have to leave the office at five and stop working until tomorrow . This gives me a feeling of a small deadline , and deadlines are good at eliminating procrastination . Finally , as someone mentioned already , nothing beats working with people . Having weekly meetings with my supervisor , where a decision is made on what I will achieve until the next meeting , tops it all .
As a PhD student I did exactly that , contacting professors for exchange about two years ago , and that worked very well for me . ( I ended up visiting a top UK university and the collaboration was , and still is , very productive . ) My supervisor was involved in discussing the places I wanted to go , but I handled all contact . Some advice : Study the professor 's webpage ( if they have one ) to see if it says anything about collaborations . If it says on their webpage that they have no time , do n't contact them . Send the professor an email , give them a week or two to answer , then follow up with a second reminder-email if there is no reply . Important things to do/mention : Make sure the email is very short , but that it still describes precisely what you want to collaborate on . Professors are chronically short on time . If you have a travel grant etc. that will fund your stay , it 's important to say so . ( They 're much more likely to accept you if they do n't have to spend any money . But I think most universities will waive term fees if you ask them . ) Add a sentence about your accomplishments so far , so they have some impression that having you visit is going to be a net gain for them . Mention any papers you 've co-authored , if you add a link make sure it 's short ( DOI , arXiv etc ) . Try to keep the email self-contained , but linking to any papers , your CV or research webpage " for more information about me " is OK . Also add a sentence describing how you think your proposed topic fits with what they are doing , so they know you 've actually checked out their group and read some of their papers etc. . In my experience , most people reply positively to such an email , so first send emails to the two or three places you want to visit the most . If none of those are successful , send to the next few places on your list . YMMV though .
Your best bet is probably to ask your colleagues if they would have you let a look at their ( successful ) grant proposals . That way you can also ask questions .
The authors can arrange this however they want . If they all want to work on it actively , that 's fine . If they 'd rather agree to have one person write the response and then send it to the other authors for approval , that 's fine too . All that matters is that everyone approves . Unlike the paper itself , it 's not necessary that all authors make a significant contribution . It 's impossible to give any general advice on length : in some cases a short response is sufficient , in other cases you might have to write more to express what you need to say . But conciseness is generally desirable ; nobody likes to read unnecessary text that does n't add anything .
First , it may depend on your field , but at least in mine ( physics and chemistry ) , it is rare for papers to generate comments or replies , and really extraordinary for a paper to be followed by multiple comments . ( The editor usually lets the original authors reply to the comment , however . ) Some publishers provide links to the comments and replies on the webpage for the original paper . Otherwise , you can locate those comments using the following criteria : they are published in the same journal , or in a preprint server ( like <URL> ) their title includes " comment on " or " reply to " ( or other such publisher-dependent prefix that you need to identify ) Finally , you should get the list of all newer papers citing the original paper , and check them out . If you 're investigating a paper in depth , you 'll do that anyway :)
I am assuming you are an undergraduate ; correct me if I 'm wrong and I 'll amend my answer . It has been my experience that summer internships at a university that you do n't attend are very rare . My advisor explicitly ignored all cold emails from students asking if they could work with her during the summer ( even if they were not asking to be paid ) . Logistically , without being enrolled in the school , things like getting access to school servers , badgeing/keys for offices , etc. is just that much more difficult , and professors just do n't have the time to vet students from external schools , nor much of an incentive to do so . With that caveat : Ask home university/department/professor for contacts and use that connection ? Absolutely , but it is going to take more than getting contacts to get a summer internship . Unless your professor reaches out to those contacts himself/herself , you 're probably not going to get much traction . What if I have no prior research experience and professors only know me from classes ? Then you are less likely to entice them to help you . You 're better off trying to work with those professors at your own university instead of trying to use them to work somewhere else . Google and send CV + Statement to ( many ) professors via email and hope for the best Please do n't bother them -- they get too much spam to begin with . You 'll not only waste your time , but theirs as well . Google for positions that are explicitly offered for 8-10 week summer internships This is the best option , but I suggest not limiting yourself to universities and to branch out to look for internship experience in industry ( if this is such a thing in your field ) . For one , there are probably more opportunities , and secondly , they are generally more structured and you might get more out of the experience . Incidentally , many professors use the summer months for work-related travel and to take vacation . This makes it even more unlikely that you will find a position , as the number of professors around during the summer is minimal . On the other hand , if you happen to find a professor that will assign you to one of his/her graduate students , you could potentially still work in the lab under the grad student tutelage instead of directly for the professor ( and , indeed , this is probably what will happen in any lab -- as an undergraduate you will probably work more for the graduate students than for the professor , although this obviously varies by school and professor ) .
When I was a Ph.D. student working on my own dissertation , I went to the university writing center for help and had a revelatory experience . The person working with me sat down with the first page of my introduction and effectively dissected it to identify the problems without understanding any of my technical jargon . They did this by reading aloud as we discussed , substituting blank/nonsense words for every piece of jargon , e.g. : Here we apply method X to determine whether adjective thingies can be made to wibble . This type of substitution forces you to step back from the technical world that you have dedicated so much time and love to , and understand your narrative -- or lack thereof . In your motivation , you need to take a couple of steps back and ask : why does anybody care about additive-finite measure space ( " frobs " ) and how it relates to the space of mu-integrable functions ( " greebit-space " ) or a stochastic process ( " wibbling " ) . You did n't pick these elements at random . There must be some reason why you picked them and how they relate to the bigger community . Are they intended to solve a puzzle that a lot of people care about ? Or a small piece of such a puzzle ? Do they unite two sets of concepts that people thought were different ? Will they help understand string theory or give better tools for interpreting MRI imaging ? You want to be able to write something like this : People have wondered about how to better understand frobs ever since Richard Feynman first used them to pick the locks in Los Alamos . Although X , Y , and Z attempts have been made , none of them got very far because they were all green-colored . In this dissertation , I examine an alternate path , reducing the problem of frobs to the simpler system of greebit-space by means of an innovative application of wibbling . These results bring us one step closer to solving the problem of frobs , and how they can be better used to quickly and cheaply pick locks . Now , what I 've written is pure gibberish , and your motivation will almost certainly be much longer . The point , however , is this : your goal in a motivation section is to motivate by explaining that there is a problem that people care about and that you have an approach that gives at least a piece of the solution . Explain it in a way that your jargon can just be placeholders in the reader 's mind , and it will be fine to leave the complex definitions for later .
With regard to : I did research in a number of different field ( ... ) finding out I 'm not super talented , but I learn fast and I have some intellectual stamina . I will try to focus on " talent " and " stamina " , two self-evaluation criteria you mention which have not been directly addressed in the comments so far . You set up a contrast between stamina ( which I interpret as a combination of curiosity and persistence ) and talent ( which I interpret as the ability to do more original/creative work with less apparent difficulty ) . You also mention several specific disciplinary sub-fields of research : xrays , etc. . I wonder if your perception of your " talent " might be more a consequence of the switching you have done between different areas of research , rather than your innate capacity for original research in one or more of these fields . Research in learning and expertise development suggests that it takes about 10 years of concentrated work in a particular discipline ( whether it is chess , car racing , or an academic field ) to develop expertise . Once developed , such expertise may be mistaken for talent by a less-trained eye . Your words suggest a judgment formed by comparing yourself to others . If these others happened to be more experienced in a given area of research , then the difference in " time on task " may partly account for your perception of lesser capacity for original research in some ways . A couple points seem worth making : You probably do want to eventually identify , develop , and apply your talent in some field . Whether it is CS or Physics or something else , it has to be something you should be willing to apply yourself to for an extended period of time . As you decide on your post-PhD path , consider the disciplinary area that you think could hold your intellectually engaged for a while . If your interest in research is such that CS is a means to answering questions in other fields , then CS is a means rather than an end for you . This will take you down one particular career trajectory . However , if your interest is in questions in CS proper , this might imply a different trajectory ( e.g. a research scientist/programmer in a physics lab , vs. a research scientist in a research center that focuses on computational questions like algorithms , etc ( sorry , CS is not my area ) . Finally , saying that you " like doing research " is a starting point for some deeper reflection . Think about HOW you like to do " research " - stated differently , what are the characteristics of a research project that make it exciting and fulfilling to you . A big part of this has to do with the level of " agency " you are comfortable with . Some people find satisfaction in carefully nurturing their own research agendas . They do this by working in a very specific niche for a very long time , spearheading ( as a PI ) their own grants and building partnerships and communities around a specific theory and/or methodology . Others are less comfortable leading , and prefer following -- rather than agonize over what grant to apply for , they are happy supporting on-going work , where the decisions about the direction of inquiry have mostly been made for them . While both kinds of people may ( justifiably ) consider themselves " researchers , " the differences in approach can lead to very different career trajectories in terms of the role one is shooting for and the kind of institution ( size , mission , etc. ) that is compatible with each of these roles/goals . Good luck !
end question
start question
How much more does a recommendation letter from alumni help in PhD admissions ?
I disagree with Damien 's answer for the specific case of your question . A graduate of the department , who knows you very well and can write a good letter of recommendation , is worth just as much as the " big name , " because she is familiar with the department as it is currently operating , and would be able to place your work in context of people also known in the department . So , for the specific case of applying to a school that is someone else 's alma mater , I would say go for it , with a caveat . That caveat is that if a person is not able of writing a good letter of recommendation , then you should n't use it . A bad letter will not help you at all . If you have a career services office or academic counselor who can help you sort through which letters are most suitable for graduate school applications , that will help you make the decision .
it only takes time and effort I think the answer to the question is already there . It takes time and effort . So it means it takes at least the money to pay the people for a long time . And effort means you need a lot of people . More precisely , for medical research , reagents , animal model , clinical test are really expensive . Many different drugs need to be developed to have only one working in the end . Finally when a drug seems promising , you have to do year-long clinical tests , just to ensure patients safety . So time and effort == lot of money
The situation I 've seen most often is that a professor will hold a primary appointment at school A , where they have a lab and complete their research . Often for reasons related to collaboration , school B will then give the professor an appointment in a related if not identical department . If the professor also teaches a few courses at school C , they will likely be granted an adjunct position there as well . This was my setup when I was in graduate school ; I was a grad student in bioengineering at <URL> , and I had a secondary appointment at <URL> due to both lab collaborations and my being registered in a <URL> there .
I have seen both used in recommendation letters , regardless of the strength of the recommendation letter itself . I would , myself , recommend Dr. John Doe / Dr. Doe for most professional relationships , except when it is clear that you have formed a close professional relationship ( PhD student , or long-term collaborator or post-doc ) . In case you go for the surname , I would still use the full name at the first mention : Dr. John Doe was a student of mine at the University of X , where I teach Y , ... . He later joined my research group as a Masters , then PhD student . John is an extremely bright student , ... ( Of course , that 's merely an example and not a good letter wording , so do not look at the wording itself , only the use of names ... )
As an admissions-committee person for an R1 math dept , this would look to me like an obsessive-compulsive waste of time . For most people the years they 're in undergrad school are an enormous transition , and things that happen freshman year are ( hopefully , and , mercifully ) not strongly related to what happens later . People understand this , and often look with some interest on the very contrast between " freshman year " ( and maybe sophomore ) and what happens junior and senior year . While it might seem virtuous to " go back and repair " a bad performance early on , this is a vastly sub-optimal investment of one 's finite time and energy . Look forward , not back . Learn new things , do n't worry about perfecting things that really do n't need perfecting . And , indeed , grad admissions people exactly try to appraise candidates ' sense of " forward " rather than " back " ...
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
If all of your choices wrote the same letter , then of course the letter from the distinguished professor would carry more weight than that of f the assistant professor . However , often the letters from assistant professors are much more detailed and insightful than the letters from distinguished professors , because they have usually worked with the applicant much more closely . They can therefore offer more detailed insights than can more senior staff . This is not always true , but it is at least mostly the case in my experience .
It 's not a deal breaker . I had awful grades in many courses but I got offers with TA/RA-ship/fellowships from a couple of top 25 US PhD programs in Math . The reason , I think , was that I had very high GRE scores , I had participated in undergraduate/masters " research " projects for a few years with professors at my schools , and I had pretty good recommendations . My research statement was normal and earnest . I did n't have any extraordinary ideas nor some well defined research agenda in it . I think that , overall , the rest of my portfolio made up for my awful grades . In your case , it 's just one course . That does not signal any systematic problem . If you feel particularly insecure , you can address it in your personal statement but do n't talk about the professor in question negatively , instead you can focus on how you were tardy once but it does not reflect your work usual work ethic . I can not speak for top 10 schools . They may have a sufficiently large pool of applicants who may beat you on every metric . Also , Math departments at large public Universities generally need lots of bodies to TA/grade their numerous remedial and baby-calc type undergraduate courses and generally do the culling at the qualifying exam stage . You may find their standards for an incoming PhD class to be more forgiving .
This varies by program . In the US , in mathematics , " par " for a master 's is 2 years . In some PhD programs , this will cut a year off your time-to-degree . In others , no help at all . In rare cases , it will cut two years off .
There are quite a few issues to be careful about when considering a recommendation letter from an employer . Some examples : Make sure they understand the culture of academic recommendation letters . In industry , lots of the time recommendations are more-or-less a token statement that someone worked for you and did n't cause any issues . Academic recommendation letters are very different , so make sure they have an idea of what kind of letter to write . What exactly is the background of your letter writer ? This is a bigger issue with PhD ( or research-based masters ) recommendations , but if your recommender does n't have the background or credentials to understand what it takes to become a successful researcher or academic , then it 's unlikely that they will be able to speak intelligently about whether you have those traits . How common are industry to graduate school moves in your field ? In a field like mathematics or physics , my guess is that most candidates do not have significant work experience and any work experience is usually far removed from the subject material . In a field like that , the people evaluating your profile are more likely to discount an industry recommendation , especially if it comes from a non-PhD , non-researcher . On the other hand , fields like business or engineering have many more applicants from industry and are probably used to seeing those recommendation letters , so it is unlikely to put you at a significant disadvantage . How well are your other bases covered and what are your alternatives ? If you have recommendation letters that already focus on your undergraduate classes and research , then it may be more valuable to have a letter describing traits you exhibited in the workplace than another " he got an A in my class " letter . In general , an employer 's letter is never going to be as good as a great letter from an active researcher that you worked closely with . But most applicants do n't have three of those on hand . Can a letter from an employer be useful ? Definitely . Given the alternatives , is it the optimal decision for you ? It 's possible , but that depends on a lot of factors that you should probably spend some time thinking about .
For academic positions , what is relevant for your application is your letter of recommendations . Who is on your committee does not matter ( except the head ) . Your job applications will not even list the members of your committee -- this will only be seen by someone who looks at your thesis . In academia , it 's common that non-tenured ( sometimes even non-tenure-track ) faculty are on PhD committees . This is not viewed in any negative light . You want the most relevant people on your committee , so they can give you the best feedback , and will have a better sense of what you are doing to be able to write you recommendation letters . Often your supervisor can suggest who to put on your committee . I imagine that non-academic employers will care even less , as they are ( typically ) not interested in your research .
The point of a letter of recommendation is for the receiving party to obtain third-party verification that you are , indeed , awesome . Generally speaking , people like to receive letters from individuals who know you well professionally . In most cases , teachers can not write good letters , as they only know you as a face in the class , and never really got to know your work ethic , personality , and capabilities . A research advisor would be able to comment on all those things , and would be able to write a much stronger letter .
I have no direct experience with statistics programs , but I know of no reason to think they differ from math programs in this respect . Assuming that 's the case , letters of recommendation are absolutely critical , at least in U.S. universities . I agree with the person who told you they practically are your application , and I 'm mystified by how someone could tell you they make no difference . ( I wonder whether it 's someone who has never served on an admissions committee or was educated in a very different system . ) It 's true that just about everyone gets what might appear to be good letters . The issue is n't whether they say bad things about you , but rather how strong they are and how compelling a case they make . I 've certainly seen many cases of letters written by the same person that differ enormously in their effect , even though they are all nominally positive . The third piece of advice you received in no way contradicts the second . It 's not enough for a letter just to include flattering comments about you . It needs to make a compelling case for why you will be successful in statistics , written by someone who knows exactly what it takes to succeed in this field , has seen other strong students to whom you can be compared , and has a reputation to protect that will keep them from exaggerating or trying to manipulate the admissions committee . A senior statistician is the best case , but a junior statistician or a mathematician may also be able to do a fine job . A letter from a chemist will not be helpful , and a letter from a professor of literature , no matter how enthusiastic it is , will hurt your case ( by demonstrating that you have no idea how the application process works or that you could n't find anyone more relevant who thinks highly of you ) . Exactly what is required depends on where you are applying . At the top departments , you need letters that make a very strong case indeed . Even outstanding students will be rejected , and you need letters that set you apart from the others . At much lower ranked departments , it might be possible to make a favorable impression based largely on grades and test scores , but even then you 'll still need good enough letters . ( The bar will just be lower . )
Do n't worry about it too much , just say thank you . In person or over email are both fine : getting a good recommendation letter is a big deal for you , but writing recommendation letters for good students is a part of normal routine for a professor .
I would like to know how much he can write about my mental health , also considering that the academic work did n't suffer at all from this . According to <URL> of organizations : " The Americans with Disabilities Act recognizes that employers may sometimes have to disclose medical information about applicants or employees . " But also they claim : " The basic legal principle that employers should follow is not to reveal medical information about you unless there is a legitimate business reason to do so . But because that standard is fairly vague , there are laws which more specifically protect the privacy of your medical records , such as the Americans with Disabilities Act , the law which makes it illegal to discriminate on the basis of an employee 's disability . " For UK you may find more information on <URL> website and <URL> . If you ask me I would say that it is not actually ethical to write about your mental health if your job did n't suffer from that . For some careers there are some health restrictions ( e.g. pilots , surgeons , etc. ) but I 've never seen that for academic work . More to say , I know people who have GAD , OCD , etc. and they have never had significant issues in academic life . But I also have to say that people usually do n't take year off because of mental health issue , especially not for GAD . From your post I ca n't see if the GAD is a main reason of one year off . If it is n't the main reason then I do n't understand why your supervisor has a need to write it in recommendation letter . But , if GAD is your main reason why you needed to stay away from University than I do n't understand how your mental health did n't affect your productivity when it is even though you continued to work . Whatever the case is , I would n't like that my supervisor writes " a mental issue " because for me it sounds serious and Generalized Anxiety Disorder actually does n't sound due to prevalence " <URL> " Shortly , I do n't think he should write about your mental health when you obviously continued to work . It is your private information , there are some laws about it and I am worried that you will be discriminate because of that . My advice : Talk with your supervisor , find out why he thinks that he is forced to write it in recommendation letter ( that is really strange ) and please look more into the laws and send them to him if it is needed .
Professors typically do not supplement their salary with grants with one very large exception . The grant money can allow them to trade some number of required courses for research time . The big exception to this is that the typical appointment for a university professor in the US is for 9 months . If the professor wants to teach some summer courses , they can earn 3 more months of their salary for doing that , or they can get grants to fill in that time . The National Science Foundation limits US researchers who are professors to 2 months of summer time funding , though , so to get 12 full months of compensation , a professor will need income from some other source ( summer teaching , another agency 's grants , industrial grants , consulting , etc ) . So , that being said , typically professors can not increase their salary rate . They can only use it to fill in the months that the university does not usually pay them for . Finally , most universities give the option for their professors to take the 9 months of salary over 12 months of payments , so filling in those 3 months may look like a monthly raise from the perspective of their bank statements .
I do not think you should reuse the letter as is , for two reasons : The letter writer did not intend for it to be reused , or else it would have been written more generically . It 's generally not reasonable to use such a letter outside of the circumstances envisioned/authorized by its author . You would have to explain that there 's no realistic way to contact the writer , and that is itself a red flag . It looks suspicious to say " here 's what Professor X would say if you could contact him , but you ca n't " . A letter is n't worth much if the committee could n't in principle contact the writer to confirm or ask further question . Certain rare cases might merit an exception , such as reusing a letter from someone who has since died . ( Where the death is a matter of public record , everybody assumes that of course the writer would have updated the letter if death had n't intervened , and they are inclined towards flexibility because of the difficult situation . ) How hard would it really be to contact the letter writer ? If it 's inconvenient but not impossible , then it could be your best option .
I have two levels of customization . Firstly , if the letter is for an internship at a lab , or an application to grad school or a job , I tailor the qualities that I emphasize and link those qualities to the specific job . A second level of customization is if I have any connection to the institution ( for example , when writing letters of recommendation for AT&amp;T Labs - where I used to work - I might mention this explicitly in order to convey that I understand the local culture ) This is above and beyond the usual pro-forma customizations for the addressee etc. .
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
Pick someone else if it is n't already too late . The actual answer to your question is this : It is far better to have a good letter from a faculty member who is relatively unknown than a bad letter from someone they recognize and respect . In fact , the latter is probably the worst thing that could happen . If it is already too late , i.e. you have asked Professor X , he 's agreed , and you 've sent him the material ( which is probably an online link these days ) then work hard to make writing the letter easy . Put together the following information and send it fast : Include your student number . Remind him which of his classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? He is going to have to answer those questions when he writes your reference , so the more details the better ; but these must be things your referee knows himself . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that he may not remember ? What makes him particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? This goes in an email that says , " Thank you very much for agreeing to write a reference for me on very short notice . I hope the following will be of use to you when you write it . "
end question
start question
Can theory exposition be a thesis ?
For undergraduate studies , you do not need to have publishable papers . Hence , exploratory thesis it is fine if you understand and do all the calculations , and perhaps you can also explore implementations in numerical programs .
I slightly prefer attachments . The problem is that I 'm reluctant to reply to e-mails asking for more information , or even to show up on server logs following links , because it may be interpreted as a sign of interest . Like most faculty members ( at least in technical areas ) , I get enormous numbers of junk e-mails regarding PhD positions or summer research . The general pattern is that they are form letters sent to large numbers of people , almost all of whom ignore the letters . If anyone replies in anything but the most discouraging way , then it inspires a potentially lengthy e-mail exchange that will probably just waste everyone 's time . This is a real problem , and I do n't know what to do about it . It 's not really fair , but right now the burden is on applicants to stand out from the junk e-mails . In particular , your e-mail should provide compelling proof that you spent at least as long thinking about it and writing it as you expect the faculty member to spend on it . If it looks like it could be a form letter with the professor 's name and research topic pasted in , then I 'll ignore it , as will many other people . [ I should point out that I work in a department with centralized admissions , so I can not accept students on my own . This is explained on my web page and the department 's . ] For example , a clearly personalized e-mail that discusses the professor 's research in detail is good . Keep in mind that plenty of people are trying to cheat with this . For example , I regularly receive e-mails saying something like " I found your paper X fascinating when we read it in our seminar " , with no further details . This looks like a form letter , and there have been a couple of times when I 've received e-mails from the same sender that were identical except for having different paper titles pasted in , with no indication that they had previously e-mailed me about another paper . Maybe a few e-mails are genuine , but they sure look like lies . So when I get an e-mail regarding PhD admissions or summer research , I 'm very skeptical that it 's more than spam . There 's a five or ten second window to convince me that it 's different from the other e-mails , before I set it aside . If it looks promising , then I 'll read further , and I 'm a little more likely to do so if any information I need is available right there . So I 'd recommend attaching whatever is needed .
At least in my field , it 's rather uncommon to mention an author 's name in a paper . Rather it is something along the lines of the following ( somewhat depending on the citation style ) : Ref . [ 42 ] showed that discombobulators can facilitate banana transmogrification . Recently it was shown that discombobulators can facilitate banana transmogrification [ 42 ] . Recently it was shown that discombobulators can facilitate banana transmogrification ( He et al. , 2014 ) . That does not mean that it would be wrong to mention an author by name , but I would find a paper that intensively does so somewhat strange -- even if the paper heavily builds upon this author 's work . At least I would find it totally acceptable if such an author was mentioned only once or twice . So as a first step , I suggest to change your writing style as to mention He and other authors less often . If you have a whole paragraph where you refer to He 's work in every sentence , it should suffice to mention this in the first sentence , e.g. , like this : The method we are proposing is an extension of the method proposed by He [ 42 ] , which briefly works as follows : [ ... ] Mentioning any author in such a paragraph repeatedly , let alone always at the beginning of a sentence is something that I would consider bad style anyway . Be sure to check as to whether this is not totally uncommon in your field . For the remaining occurrences of He 's name , rephrase the sentences such that the name does not occurr at the beginning of a sentence such that it does not happen at the beginning of a sentence or after an abbrevation . Capitalisation should suffice to make the distinction here . You may hold some subconscious ideal that it should be possible to tackle such issues without rephrasing sentences , but it 's a totally viable approach . Also , as explained before , this should at most apply to a few sentences . Some thoughts on alternatives and what I consider problematic about them : Mentioning the author 's full name . This is still likely to cause confusion , in particular among those who do not see the issue and wonder why this author is mentioned with a first name . Also , in some situations , the reader may not be aware that the first and last name actually belong together . Prepending the initialised first name of the author . This makes reading your text even more difficult , as one will likely think at first that a sentence ends after D. He 's first name , in particular if it 's grammatically plausible such as in this sentence .
Moodle and Blackboard &amp; co are learning management systems , not e-learning software that is sometimes ( but not always ) built into such an LMS . There is indeed a lack of educational theory behind many e-learning units , for example , the learning goals are not clearly defined , the target group is not specified , the evaluation of the learning goals ( if stated ) does not actually match , etc. . And there are many side issues ( hidden curricula , usability , etc ) .
For undergraduate studies , you do not need to have publishable papers . Hence , exploratory thesis it is fine if you understand and do all the calculations , and perhaps you can also explore implementations in numerical programs .
On the one hand , referees can reject your paper for all sorts of foolish reasons . I would not if I were refereeing , but that means nothing for some random person with an axe to grind . I would n't worry about this scenario too much though , because it would require some relatively extreme timing to happen . On the other hand , even if it did happen , if people are citing you and you are having an impact , is it really that much of a problem if the paper is " just " in arXiv ? Only the most blind and foolish Impact Factor junkies would hold the lack of brand name against you . Also , you will write many papers in your career , and I would be startled if such a situation happened more than once .
Would I fail if , for example , during the discussion a mistake in my comparison and evaluation approach is discovered which makes my results meaningless ? Although I discussed my approach and everything I did with my advisor ( postdoc not the prof ) , yet I still fear that I might have done something wrong and then everything collaps . This should not happen unless : The mistake is blatantly obvious and something you should have really known better . And with blatantly obvious , I mean something that somebody who has not even studied computer science or a related field could easily spot . Even then you may have chances , if the rest of your work is appropriate -- almost everybody brainfarts now and then . You made not only one mistake but a lot of big mistakes . It becomes obvious that you deliberately ignored that mistake , to avoid being stuck or to get " nicer " results . ( In the first two cases , your advisor is in big trouble , too . ) The point of the master thesis is that you should demonstrate that you can investigate a scientific question under supervision ( or something similar -- check the regulations , if you wish to know ) . One mistake does not change this . Moreover , in some examination regulations I am aware of , there is a procedure for the case that some important but localised flaw is detected in your thesis . For example , you could be given a month to amend your thesis . How would one fail a master thesis defense ? I have not experienced or heard of such a case but from what I have gathered , you pass if you : Give a talk about your thesis . Be able to answer questions about it . Are not detected to have been cheating . Even if you suffer from a mental breakdown due to nervousness or similar , you probably can repeat the defense -- at least with any reasonable examination regulation and examination committee . I am aware of one case where somebody had a nervous breakdown for understandable reasons  and the examination board let him repeat the exam . If you look into your examination regulations , there are probably some clauses that allow the examination board to do some things at their own discretion in exceptional cases . Be aware though that being very difficult to fail does not make the defense unimportant . A bad defense may seriously ( and in particular more than nominally ) affect your thesis degree , which in turn has a huge impact on your total degree . In particular having passed a thesis with the lowest possible degree ( or something close to it ) is something you definetely do not want to have in your vita  .  It 's very complicated , but you might compare it to the following : In the middle of the defense , somebody who was the defender 's girlfriend until six months ago enters the room being obviously pregnant in her ninth month .  Unless you are in one of those few disciplines where this is the norm .
You should check the guidelines from your university . I 'd assume that they would have requirements for the order . If not , I always prefer the acknowledgements should come first , that way the non-scientific stuff is out of the way .
It varies greatly . There are the fixed deadline places , for which there are deadlines starting from Nov 15 or thereabouts , all the way upto Jan 15 . There are also places with rolling deadlines , where it 's better to apply early . In general , you should have your materials ready to go in the beginning/middle of November and that should take care of most deadlines .
Yes , in , say , Economics , its encouraged . Having a strong background ( i.e. a masters in math or statistics ) is a bonus . That being said , it is expected that you are n't blind about the subject you going into your PhD for ( but that should be obvious ) .
My Masters project ( synthetic chemistry ) did n't actually generate results other than failure and black goop ( so nothing novel ! ) until the last two weeks of time I had in the lab , and even then , there was insufficient purity and quantity of my compound to do a complete ' standard ' panel of analysis . It was the 4th year of an integrated BSc/Msci course , was graded including a viva and I achieved a mid 2.1 . The main purpose of a research Masters , at least in chemistry , is to accustom you to ' proper ' research methods , while allowing you to pursue something novel and to demonstrate your ability to conduct research to a sufficient standard . In my cohort there was typically a tradeoff between novelty of project and quality of results , where one forgave the lack of the other . As long as your thesis is written with an awareness of its deficits ( aims far loftier/broader than the time/resources available sounds like a good start ! ) and you write good further work and conclusion sections where you tie this awareness in , making sensible conclusions and observations on the few cases you have achieved , I think it is definitely possible to write a good one ! As Paul indicated above , you should discuss these concerns with your supervisor and possibly head of class ( or equivalent ) . I am sure they will have dealt with someone with your concerns and circumstances before .
Do n't worry , be happy ( and be truthful ) . There 's nothing wrong in including in one 's thesis stuff that you did n't do yourself , as long as the delimitation between what the candidate did and what others did is clearly marked . And by that , I mean no lies , but also no half-truths either . Basically , the presentation will thus depend on the interaction between you two and his part in the analysis ( which ranges from " nothing " to " he suggested ideas that I tried " to " he ran my code himself " ) . In the first case , he could say : As part of project X , I sent these results to Dr. John Doe at Big U. for him to perform his widely acclaimed topological Bayesian half-filter analysis . This analysis revealed that ... There 's nothing wrong with presenting results obtained by others from your work , as long as they shed light into the phenomenon you 're studying . I once had a student who published a work , which was built upon by another group during his PhD , and he presented this at some length ( and critiqued their extension ) in his thesis . That 's part of the whole story . If the collaboration was closer , just make sure the thesis clearly indicates its nature and the contribution of everyone . Then , no fuss !
Requirements vary widely from program to program and from institution to institution . Some programs require a doctoral candidate to publish in a peer-reviewed journal ( probably most programs would take issue if you did n't publish or present anything ) . Most programs ( or committees ) would n't let you graduate with a PhD unless you published at least once , and would expect at least twice . My general hunch is that a doctoral dissertation ( rarely called a " doctoral thesis " ) is generally several times longer . While a masters thesis might be 20-50 pages , dissertations are routinely 80-150 pages ... and sometimes way more ( this varies widely by discipline , by the academic culture of your institution , and by your committee ) . Some programs allow the doctoral candidate to use three publications , combined into a single manuscript , as his or her dissertation . Lastly , the doctoral degree is intended to show that the recipient can perform original research . Masters degrees have a wide variety of understandings or intents , from " the recipient passed our comprehensive exams " , to " the recipient performed an original research project and published it " . Whatever you 've done for your masters thesis , focus on research for your PhD . Learn what interesting questions are in your field and choose one to focus on . Read the background literature to learn how others have approached the problem . Work with your advisor and committee to figure out how you can contribute something new and useful to the field , and then do it . Publish your findings in a journal ; present your results and network with peers at conferences . Finally , write it all up in your dissertation , defend it , and graduate . That sums up getting a PhD . The rest are details . You may find <URL> useful .
There is nothing wrong with making public an image created with Mathematica ; that 's the whole point of the software . The <URL> restricts your rights regarding what you can do with the software package itself ( no copying , reverse-engineering , selling , etc ) , but not the content you produce using the software . If that was the case , no one could use the software to do anything . You may , however , be restricted by the journal to which you submitted your article . The publication holds all rights to your article , including the figures . You may retain some rights to using the images in your own work ( e.g. , presentations ) ; you 'd have to check with your specific journal .
Asking questions is a good thing , but you need to make sure that the questions you ask are appropriate . The best thing to do is judge for yourself whether or not a majority of the audience might be interested in your question . An example might be that the lecturer has made a mistake , or has forgotten to define something in a mathematical derivation . In such cases , perhaps you could whisper to the person next to you for a quick second opinion . If a concept has been neglected or poorly explained , then you should ask for expansion or clarification if you think that most of the class will be in the same boat . These are n't always easy judgements to make . If you 're uneasy , save the question for after class . You can also simply ask the lecturer if he or she minds you asking questions , or your classmates if they thought your question was a good one . Good questions enhance the learning experience for everyone . The bottom line is that most good professors like to have some interaction with the class . Many students audience do n't like to say anything , so it 's often up to just a few students to ask any relevant questions . But more than one question every ten minutes or so can start to get tiresome for the lecturer , so unless it 's a tutorial class you should n't turn it into a Q&amp;A session .
Depending on the extent of your work , you may be able to get a paper describing your package and methods in PLoS One or a similar journal , or the Journal of Statistical Software . Alternately , The R Journal is a peer-reviewed journal covering R software , which may be an appropriate venue if you do n't have enough methodological material to build out a full paper for another journal Finally , many journals accept code supplements for papers describing the use of your method , so you may be able to publish your routine 's in a paper about the actual work you are doing .
Yes , of course anyone can publish an open science project . As many of us in the scientific community wish would happen , the project should be judged on merit , not who initiated it , where they studied , or what their background or education is . These principles are enshrined in the <URL> ( DORA ) , which have been widely circulated and many ( unfortunately not a majority , yet ) organisations quick to sign up to .
In your question you say " fatal flaw " and the answer will strongly depend on the meaning or intent with using these words . A fatal flaw might mean a figure is wrong ; you may have submitted an earlier version of a figure you later revised . A fatal flaw may also mean you discover something that negates your results ; you used the wrong equation or based your conclusions on the wrong data , both in ways that would pose serious risk . A third way to interpret the term is by personally simply disagreeing with what has been published , but my guess is that this is not what you are primarily thinking about and it is of course not grounds for any actions . In the second case , retraction could be the only way forward . You should of course make the journal aware of this as soon as possible and ask for their suggested solution . If you have your paper published online but not yet printed , the journal ( publisher ) might retract it and it will never be printed . If it is printed they might retract it and probably print a note in a following issue to that fact . See examples for why in <URL> In the first case , the journal will likely publish an erratum , publish the correct figure to follow up on the example . Anything that is of a technical nature and can be rectified by providing the correct version will be done so through errata , . In print this will be included also in a subsequent issue . Elsevier , for example , summarizes <URL> and provides the following grounds for retraction : Article withdrawal : Only used for Articles in Press which represent early versions of articles and sometimes contain errors , or may have been accidentally submitted twice . Occasionally , but less frequently , the articles may represent infringements of professional ethical codes , such as multiple submission , bogus claims of authorship , plagiarism , fraudulent use of data or the like . Article retraction : Infringements of professional ethical codes , such as multiple submission , bogus claims of authorship , plagiarism , fraudulent use of data or the like . Occasionally a retraction will be used to correct errors in submission or publication . Article Removal : Legal limitations upon the publisher , copyright holder or author ( s ) . Article Replacement : Identification of false or inaccurate data that , if acted upon , would pose a serious health risk . In essence , if something is officially published with a doi , there is no way to get corrections made in the pdf or in print . The online version must correspond to the printed and so the solution becomes providing a correction later on . Anything that has published will be possible to see . A paper that has been retracted will just be associated with a clear sign that a retraction has been made . The paper might live on through older copies on peoples computers or in their desk drawers . There is an <URL> that provides a perspective on retractions in general and which may be of interest .
The exact manner of how you should cite the communication may vary from style to style ( often the date is included ) , but it 's entirely reasonable to cite such a communication in a paper or thesis . Typically this is referred to as a Personal Communication . Obviously , wherever possible , you should look for information in published sources , but where this is not possible citing such a personal communication will suffice . From memory , I think there might be one in my own thesis . A specific detail of an experimental method used in a published article was not discussed , but I thought it relevant to my argument so I contacted the author to get the information I needed . Edit : Typically personal communications should not be included in the reference list as they are not evidence that can be readily recovered by anybody reading your work . This is made explicit in several prominent styles ( e.g. , Harvard , Chicago , APA ) .
I may be suggesting the obvious but it will depend on your program and your level . For a course based masters program with a practical bent I would imagine they would look upon your grades favourably . These tend to include some sort of practical capstone project required to earn the degree . If it 's thesis based , it would tend to imply some theoretical work . For a PhD , expect theory . Really , why else would they be PhDs ? Further , most of the applications I 've seen ( and submitted ) tend to speak to a well rounded applicant profile . They want to know about the work you 've done , volunteer experience , publications , and your academic history . But perhaps most importantly in your situation , they tend to want some form of personal statement outlining why you both want and deserve to be in a program . This would be your opportunity to convince them ; much like a cover letter . I 'm in the western world however , and cant speak to institutions beyond that sphere .
end question
start question
Write to professor or secretary ?
If a professor has posted their email publicly online , then it is an invitation to contact them directly on technical matters . In my experience , very few professors are unwilling to be contacted directly , and those who are unwilling typically clearly state who is the appropriate alternate contact person on their personal website ( the institution may , of course , still list them in their directory ) . You might not , however , get any reply . Just because somebody is willing to be contacted does n't mean they 'll respond to everybody who does so . If you do n't get a response within a few days , then contact the secretary instead , and if you still do n't get a response , then it is best to assume disinterest and move on .
What a nice idea ! This professor mentored you in the early days of your studies , so he will be pleased and interested to hear that you are continuing to progress in his favorite topic . Also , consider that your article having been selected to be published is good news for those who work in that area at your institution . So he will be pleased in that regard as well . It 's important to learn to be courageous in this way . You will benefit greatly over the years from ' networking . ' Sharing your good news , by giving him a copy of your publication , is an example of networking . A nice touch would be to write a personal inscription on the copy you plan to give him , thanking him for the mentoring he gave you back in 20xx , and for sparking your first interest in the area . Something like that . The best gift of all is a sincere thank-you .
I think I have a similar process to the one described by Artem ( apart from the popular talk , which I never had the opportunity to do ) . In any case , I never write a script . Actually , for my first talk in English , during my first year of PhD , I learned the talk by heart , which was terrible , and made me finish the talk in 12 minutes instead of the 20 minutes . However , I try to carefully prepare my transitions , especially between different parts of the talk . I find it particularly annoying when a speaker finishes a part with a blank , moves to the next slide , and says something like " OK , next section now " . Moreover , I usually include in a transition a brief summary of the key points of the previous section , and the motivation to go to the next section , which ensures that I do n't forget any important point . About how early should the preparation be ready , it depends on the kind of talks . For a 20/25 minutes conference talk presenting a paper , I usually already have a pretty clear idea of what I want to present and how to structure it ( since I wrote the paper ) , so I start the slides about a week before the conference , have a decent draft 2 or 3 days before ( i.e. the final number of slides , the correct titles ) , and the final version the day before . As Artem 's said , after a while , you can project pretty accurately the duration of a talk from your slides , so there is no need to repeat to make sure you are in time . For a 45/50 minutes seminar-kind talk , it 's a bit trickier , because usually the audience is not the same as the one at a conference , and it 's harder not to bore them . So I start preparing the slides about a month before , but only to get the outline , and I start working on the talking part , not so much the slides , to try to find nice ways to present the ideas ( such as nice examples , nice analogies ) . So , in summary , to answer your questions : It is not very common ( I actually do n't know anyone who does it ) . It can help if the speaker is very nervous , and tends to forget a lot of important things ( which often disappears with experience ) . It depends on the experience , and the ability to evaluate your presentation . If you feel very confident , you can start preparing the presentation the night before . But in general , I 'd say that something between a week before and the day before is good . EDIT : As aeismail mentioned , my answer is quite subjective , and just describe what works for me and for some people I know . However , just one point I would add , concerning the " awkward pauses " : I think that the quality of my presentations has tremendously increased when I stopped preparing my presentation around my slides , but the other way around . So I dropped all sentences like " this slide presents ... " , " on this slide , we have the definition ... " , etc. . Actually , I even try not to say the words that are on the slides . I do n't know if my presentation are better for the audience , but at least , I feel much more comfortable with them .
the h-index is an interesting measure , but it changes all the times microsoft search does it Google author search does it ( see an example <URL> ) the freely available tool <URL> does it you could try and triangulate the numbers that you get and find the average , as a possible solution
Is hello acceptable , or should it be more formal ( with or without academic titles ) ? This is a matter of ( sub - ) culture . Once you know what to expect , you can effectively communicate . This style is minimalist , but it tells you everything you need to know . If this bothers you , think of it this way : MK is not only saving her or his time , he or she is also saving your time . By using this style it minimizes the time you have to spent reading his message .
The key principle is this : just as with a negative review , you need to demonstrate that you have read the paper thoroughly and are making your judgement for sound scientific reasons . If you like a paper , you should be able to say why you like it . Beyond the paraphrased summary of goals and contributions ( which should begin any review ) , you can spend a sentence or two saying what aspects of the work or its presentation you found particularly compelling or particularly elegant , and why . It 's also a rare paper that does n't have any minor errors or needs for improvement , and you can also point out those , prefaced with something like , " The only things I see needing improvement are a few minor points of copyediting and clarification . " In the end , your review might be quite short , and that 's fine .
I assume you are talking about a document that is part of your application to universities ( e.g. for a PhD ) , which would be called a research statement here in the UK . Then the answer is simple : you want to maximise your chances of each application . So invest the extra effort and make individual documents to maximise your chances . Different departments have different priorities , so you want to emphasise how your plans fit to the research agenda of each place you are applying to . While it may be convenient to send the same SOP to each place , you can show that you have researched the place you are applying to and at least modify the SOP to fit to the place you are applying to .
Let me answer this question from the perspective of our school . If a school does things differently the answer you 're quoting might be very appropriate , but not in our case . Our admission decisions are made by our department , and essentially everyone is on the admissions committee - we share the load of evaluating applications . So , there could be great benefit of talking to a professor ahead of time . If one faculty member strongly desires a particular candidate , that student will generally get admitted , assuming they meet our qualifications . ( Note that , as a small school , we have enough capacity to take more students than we do because we do n't get tons of qualified applications . Also , we almost always have TA funding available for qualified students . But this really varies from one university to another . ) So , this establishes that , at some schools , talking to potential advisors ahead of time can be very valuable . The interest of working with a particular advisor can also ( and should ) go into the personal statement . I read so many personal statements that you can tell are completely generic , with different school names copy and pasted in . So , when someone says something specific about my research area , I take notice , and I think other faculty do too . The real issue is that I get so many requests from random students to look at their CV . Many of them have very little connection to my work and are probably mass-emailing professors . This should be avoided . @Anonymous ' answer has the right idea here . A few months ago a student contacted me with a list of publications and a precise statement of interest about my work . We exchanged a few e-mails and I looked at his work . Another student tracked me down after a talk at a conference and talked to me in more detail about the work . These were both appropriate ways to contact me that may benefit the students in the future .
Write your affiliation similar to how you 'll do it with a university . First Last [ Designation , ] Dept. , Institution If your hospital does not split members into departments , then Dept. part can be omitted . Examples : Aaron Stone Neurosurgeon , XYZ Clinic Cathy Miller Researcher , Cancer Research Lab , BCD Hospital Greg Thompson Cryogenics , GHI Health Institute Note that it is not always necessary to include your designation ( job description ) , unless the publisher asks for it .
I 'll tackle the easiest side of the question first : bringing nothing should not create trouble . If you are clearly expressing your thanks for the invitation , both in written before you arrive , and in person when you meet the guy , none should take offense . On the other hand , bringing a gift is fine too , but : It should be tasteful and suitable for any taste : no sake , no unusual ( by US standards ) food ... unless you know him well enough . It should not be terribly expensive : people like the attention , but they do n't actually care so much about the gift itself . Keep it simple , that way it can not be understood as a bribe . Not academia-related , but still useful to remember : make sure it passes customs ( I had my French gift confiscated from me once ) . I usually bring stuff to colleagues who host me when I travel to other places , if only because it gives a starting topic for smalltalk ( something which I 'm not very good at ) in a future occasion .
Yes . Scientific principles are never subject to copyright -- you can not copyright a scientific idea , theory , equation , or concept . That said , you do have to worry about copyright if you extensively quote from copyrighted primary or secondary resources as part of your text . If you are not directly using their language , then you need only cite the works , and no royalty or copyright issues should arise . ( Note that in the particular case of the special theory of relativity , it is more than 95 years old ( as it was announced in 1905 ) , and thus <URL> in any event , so you could in principle reuse or even reprint the entire text of his article . )
As Student B , I would be pretty mad about this , even more than if he had declined to write me a letter in the first place . But I would also recognize that it was for the best ( if he had n't done this , he would have written me a bad letter ) . Also , I would never have gone to the department head about this because It 's not something that merits a formal complaint It 's not something I 'd want to be known for , especially among other professors who may be writing my letters of recommendation .
It is n't much clear as to why Mr. K would insist you to work with Ms. E . It might be either of the following It might most probably of Ms. E 's suggestion/influence . They might be on the same team ( @virmaior 's point ) Mr. K has just got another student he prefers over you . To figure out why and how to react bases on why , @demitau 's suggestion would be most appropriate ; speaking openly with Mr. K should provide a solution . If the answer to the last question is what you require ( how to let Ms. E know I 'd rather work with Mr. K ? ) then the most diplomatic approach is to say something like this : state that you feel much honoured to work with her . But it seems you current research interest are much inclined to that of Mr. K. Hence the decision .
No , you are not wasting your time . For assistant professorships at colleges with little or no research component , you should feel free to apply in your last year of a PhD program . I do realize that someone that has already had an instructing position , or " assistant professor " position previously , or experience as a postdoc , would look better than a fresh PhD . In my experience that is not necessarily the case . In my PhD program , probably more graduates go on to this type of job than any other career trajectory . Many of our graduates do get tenure track jobs straight out of graduate school . Getting such jobs later after doing a temporary position is still possible , but it seems to me that the chance goes down . Even top twenty liberal arts colleges still hire many assistant professors straight out of grad school . Obviously they could select candidates with postdoctoral / visiting faculty experience . They often choose not to . I would go so far as to say that in many teaching jobs , postdoctoral experience could be viewed as a bit of a mismatch . ( An old friend of mine has written <URL> about the pleasures of being a visiting faculty member . To a certain degree it contradicts what I said above . But I think he is more looking on the bright side of taking multiple visiting positions than suggesting that they are necessary . ) Three more comments : You should know that an " instructor " position is typically very different from an " assistant professor " position . Suffice it to say that if you want an assistant professor position , you probably do not want an instructor position . In many math departments , there are recently hired instructors with PhDs teaching alongside of instructors without PhDs who have had the job for a longer period of time . This is not saying good things about the current job market . In my opinion , having a PhD makes you overqualified ( and certainly , underpaid ) for most instructorships , but of course it 's up to you to decide on what 's worth your while . Rather than further academic training , what you want to have in order to get these jobs are a strong teaching record and excellent teaching abilities in an interview / model classroom situation . Many PhD programs nowadays provide opportunities for their students to display these credentials . If you are looking for a primarily teaching job post-PhD , I hope you have been doing everything in your power to acquire these credentials during your graduate career : in many cases , this provides the best opportunity to do so . ( If you are not sure where you want to go on the teaching/research perspective , I hope that you have erred on the side of acquiring more of these credentials than you will necessarily need . ) When it comes to individual departments , Nate Eldredge made a good suggestion : you can look through CVs of recent ( and less recent ) hires to see what their credentials are . However , a small department may have a small sample size . Nowadays many ( most ? ) people on the academic job market apply to on the order of a hundred jobs ; necessarily this includes many jobs for whom the goodness of fit is unknown to them . Not applying to jobs because you are worried that you might not be competitive does not seem like a good strategy when so many other strong candidates are applying for everything in sight . You do n't have to stuff envelopes anymore ( like I did when I was applying for jobs less than ten years ago ! ) , so the differential amount of work in applying to some positions that you fear might be a stretch but do n't know is small . When in doubt , apply . I say this as someone who reads through hundreds of applications a year . If we 're not interested , then we 're not interested , but it 's no problem .
the most senior professor in the room contradicted me This may happen due to any reason . ( my supervisor was not there , he had an unexpected meeting ) Probably , your supervisor was clear about his decision regarding you and the rest was just a formality ( which actually happens in some cultures ) . So he chose to skip that ceremony ( and attend that unexpected meeting ) because he knew his decision would matter alone . What should I have done in the situation ? Assuming that your supervisor had a green signal in his mind for you ( which , of course , you can guess from the situation ) , you should have done nothing but tried to pass on with any reasonable negotiations . Even if the above assumptions are wrong , you should have still done the same , because , considering your this statement : I said a certain method was rather new ( which it was ! ) Especially , which it was ! part , nothing can go wrong . Of course , the reasonable negotiations would involve , you trying to defend that with solid arguments and references , while at the same time humble enough to listen to his criticism and show respect to get along .
The phenomenon you describe is known as compression and , in the case where salaries are actually reversed , inversion . Unfortunately these are very common especially at state universities . The principal cause is that faculty get hired as assistant professors at market rates , but the university salary structure fails to keep up with inflation and any other sources of increases . Given the severe funding cuts , salary freezes , and so forth that have plagued public higher education over the past few decades , this situation has been almost inevitable . The result is a salary structure such as you describe . The only ways to fix this are either explicit allocation of funds to correct compression , or for individual faculty to obtain raises via retention packages to fight off outside offers . In general , salaries are basically set by market rate at hiring ( which for assistant professors is largely independent of citations and papers , conditional on getting the job in the first place ) and by outside offers received later during the career . Both the availability of outside offers and their magnitude will depend on stature in the field . Even if one does not actually take an outside offer , receiving one or more such offers can prompt the home institution to put together a retention package . The willingness of the home institution to put together a top package will also depend on stature , and similarly the magnitude of the retention package depends on the outside offer and is thus also based on stature . In principle , regular merit raises could also reward faculty in accordance with their productivity and impact . But for whatever reason ( I blame self-governance , but that 's another discussion ) , merit raises and such tend to be allocated in relatively egalitarian form , rather than proportional to differential merit and productivity . Other answers provide additional important information . Some salaries are 9 month , some 12 month . Some faculty on 9 month appointments can cover summer salary off of grants ; others spread 9 months salary across 12 months . Public databases often list total salary received rather than 9 month salary ; this considerably increases the variation among faculty .
It sounds like he 's asking you to wait because you 're his plan B , not his plan A . In other words , he may be afraid that his favorite candidate backs out , and he 's keeping you in the wings just in case that happens . So should you push the issue ? No , not unless you have other offers . And if your other pending applications have n't been responded to yet , it 's in your best interest to wait until those other decisions come back to you .
Taking on an undergraduate for a short-term research project is , especially in theoretical and computational fields , essentially an act of service on the part of the professor . By that I mean that usually the professor will put in much more than they get out of it . This is because the student will usually need a significant amount of one-on-one tutoring , or at least time , to understand what needs to be done and learn the tools that will be used to do it . That leaves little time ( in a summer ) for actually producing research results , and since it is likely the student 's first project , progress is likely to be slow . If the professor is at your own university and you have already established a connection and a good impression , then they may be willing to do it based on that . The next best situation is to have a professor who knows you well recommend you to the professor at the other university . But if you 're cold contacting a professor who knows nothing about you , you need to demonstrate that You 're in a good program and have excellent grades ; you have familiarized yourself with some part of their research ( as well as you can with your current level of preparation ) ; You have good communication skills ; and You have some tools that are useful in the indicated field ( e.g. substantial programming experience , experience with particular methods or techniques ) . All this needs to be in a short email ( a long email probably wo n't get read at all ) . Even the above quite often be enough . Of course , if you are exceptional in some way then make sure to highlight that . For instance : You have some published research already You won a major award ( e.g. you placed in the top few worldwide in the IMO ) You did something else that shows you have aptitude for the field and includes a tangible , demonstrable result The last one might be something like " I implemented computational method X in C and used it to solve this interesting problem ; here is the code on Github and the results . "
In the U.S. , " professor emeritus " simply means " retired professor " . It 's a courtesy title offered to retiring professors to acknowledge their continued scholarly role even after formal retirement . It typically includes library privileges and a computer account , and emeritus professors may also have offices ( this depends on departmental policy and the availability of space ) . It 's sometimes possible to teach , but this is a special arrangement rather than a job requirement . At many universities every retired faculty member is offered this title , with rare exceptions for people who committed misconduct or angered the administration . At other universities one has to apply for the title and make a case for why it is justified . In particular , professor emeritus is not a higher title or special distinction . It can be viewed as a retirement incentive : even after retirement , you 'll still have a respected role as well as necessities like library access . However , there 's no advantage to becoming an emeritus professor beyond the benefits of retiring from your job ( i.e. , giving up duties and focusing only on what you prefer ) .
( this is rather long : I wrote it for one of my students , who had a similar question ) BASIC UNDERSTANDING When you 're processing a paper , ask yourself : what is their precise problem formulation what is their solution what larger issue are they trying to address with their paper Do ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) actually fix ( 3 ) ( for experimental papers ) do the experiments tell a convincing story to bolster their claims . Be suspicious of what they claim unless the line of reasoning is clear . SYNTHESIS Once you 've done this for a set of papers , you should start trying to connect them together : is there a linear progression of ideas ? How do the tools connect up Is there some way to simplify and explain what groups of papers are doing under a common theme ? CRITIQUE Once you have the above , then you can ask what are the gaps in what people are doing Are these gaps important or minor ? Does some union of the papers essentially solve the problem ? if so , why and if not , why not ? Are these papers even solving the right problem ? ( this last point is both tricky and critical - it is very easy for a line of research to be internally consistent but get totally derailed from the original motivation for the problem ) DIRECTIONS Now you 're ready to suggest new directions and new ideas . note that critique comes AFTER basics and synthesis - you must understand very well before you can judge .
end question
start question
How much code to include in a Physics paper ?
If the goal of your paper is to show that your code solves a particular problem or performs a specific task , then it is your responsibility to prove to the reviewers that your code does what it claims to do . The easiest way to do this is to include the code as part of the supporting information for your paper . However , reproducibility -- which is what you 're asking about , to a certain extent -- is a not-so-simple question when it comes to showing codes do what they 're supposed to . For instance , a code that runs one way under one configuration may return a slightly ( or perhaps _ very ) different result when run under another configuration . This does n't mean that one result or the other is wrong -- it just means that this behavior needs to be taken into account when evaluating the correctness of software . One way to help this is to provide as much information as possible on your testing environment , so that any differences between the system on wich you were working and the conditions the reviewers and future potential users of your code will have can quickly be identified . This would be included , perhaps , as a text file that accompanies the code in the supporting information .
If the goal of your paper is to show that your code solves a particular problem or performs a specific task , then it is your responsibility to prove to the reviewers that your code does what it claims to do . The easiest way to do this is to include the code as part of the supporting information for your paper . However , reproducibility -- which is what you 're asking about , to a certain extent -- is a not-so-simple question when it comes to showing codes do what they 're supposed to . For instance , a code that runs one way under one configuration may return a slightly ( or perhaps _ very ) different result when run under another configuration . This does n't mean that one result or the other is wrong -- it just means that this behavior needs to be taken into account when evaluating the correctness of software . One way to help this is to provide as much information as possible on your testing environment , so that any differences between the system on wich you were working and the conditions the reviewers and future potential users of your code will have can quickly be identified . This would be included , perhaps , as a text file that accompanies the code in the supporting information .
end question
start question
Will self funding a PhD hurt employment chances ?
There 's nothing on your CV that needs to indicate exactly how you were supported during your Ph.D. . In fact , if you were self-funded , and managed to get an occasional fellowship or other form of support , that 's a plus ! All a recruiting committee should ( and does ) care about post-PhD is the quality of your work ( for faculty positions there are additional issues ) . No one cares about how you were paid to do that work .
From the <URL> , a large-scale survey of students who earn doctoral degrees from U.S. institutions , In the life sciences , 9 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . In the physical sciences , 3.8 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . In the social sciences , 25.3 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . In engineering , 3.8 % report " own resources " as primary source of support . See <URL> .
Yes , it will make it harder to get a job as a professor of computer science . A distance learning PhD is not well suited for learning certain skills that one would learn in a traditional PhD , as described in more detail at <URL> . Some of these skills are important for getting a job as a professor and/or doing the job of a professor . For example , you would not get any teaching experience in a distance learning course , and most faculty applicants are expected to have at least some teaching experience . Furthermore , by doing a PhD by distance learning , you miss out on a lot of the networking and exposure to other academics that happens in a good computer science PhD program . This plays a major role in getting a faculty job afterwards . The exception to this is if you were to get a job where the PhD is necessary only as a formality . For example , if you are already so well known in your field that every university wants to hire you , but ca n't because their HR departments insist that faculty candidates must have a PhD , then a distance learning PhD might be sufficient .
No . Unpublished work is unpublished . It 's almost as if it does n't exist . Given that it is your work , there is no case of plagiarism . I do n't even think you need to cite yourself -- what would you actually be citing ? Indeed , how would you prove that you plagiarised yourself ? If your unpublished work has been circulated among other authors and has been cited by them , maybe you can cite it too . But that seems a bit odd .
What was written down on an application years ago will generally not come back to haunt a faculty candidate later . However , actions that might have been taken on a faculty visit -- or in later interactions with faculty members at a department -- could have repercussions . If the reputation that someone builds is being a person who " does n't play well with others , " that will be a tag that follows that individual for the rest of the career . It can make life a lot more difficult , because that person will have to work a lot harder and be a lot more successful than someone who is able to interact with current and potential future departmental colleagues in a civil and cordial manner . But what 's written in an application ? Unless it 's fraudulent , it should n't have a bearing on future ability to get hired somewhere .
I would say the two most important points are to make slides you are comfortable with and not to limit your oral presentation to reading your slides . Furthermore , if you are presenting a research paper , i.e. , where more written material is available to the audience , then the objective is usually to make people want to read your paper , instead of explaining the entire paper in 20 minutes . Some people prefer to have full slides , arguing that when members of the audience are not understanding English very well , it can help them to have both the oral presentation and the slides , especially when the speaker does not speak a perfect English . It is also helpful for members of the audience who got distracted at some point , and who can quickly read where the speaker is . Other people prefer minimal slides , arguing that having both the full text and the oral presentation might confuse the audience . In particular , whenever a slide is displayed , the audience tends to read it immediately , and during the reading , to be less receptive of any spoken words . In other words , the only " bad " presentation would be to have full slides , and to limit your presentation to reading them , because you become basically useless . However , you can have long slides , as long as you consider them as an aid for the audience who have n't followed what you said ( for whatever reason ) , and not as your script to read . You can also minimal slides , containing only the key points . In the end , you need to be comfortable with your slides , and to give a presentation like one you would like to attend .
Tough to predict how it will be handled with certainty . You could list the scholarship but then say in your SoP something along these lines : " I 've earned in fact ( a prestigious ? ) scholarship from my home government which would allow me to ... however it comes with a requirement that ... which frankly I 'd prefer not to commit to . Thus I would much rather be admitted with financial support from the university , in which case I would turn down the government scholarship . " For highly ranked research universities , I 'd say it is not common for Ph.D. students to be self-funded . That said , if they can grab a strong student who is self-funded , what 's not to like ? :)
Is it possible ? YES . Will it be likely ? NO . The funding model depends entirely on the institution who is funding you . It is ultimately up to them as to how you will be compensated for your time and effort . If you are concerned about sustaining yourself through your study there are other avenues which candidates pursue such as lecturing/tutoring , marking and being a research assistant . Additionally there may be other scholarships available to you from the university or from external institutions .
My experience is limited to anecdotes . What I have generally seen is that students usually attempt to get either a paid industrial internship or an paid/unpaid research internship with a particular research group . In fact , I have been mentoring an undergraduate who is graduating in the middle of the semester and is preparing to spend the next 6 months working as a research assistant ( paid ~ $ 15/hour ) for a research group in our university before joining a prestigious PhD program in another university .
It happens when the authors chose to do so ! Journals do not impose the order of authors in the authors list . They usually give guidelines ( or policies ) on authorship standards , i.e. who should be co-author and who should not , but they leave the ordering up to the authors themselves . Now , different fields have different customs . In physics and chemistry , alphabetical ordering is very rare ( used for example in consortium publications ) , while in mathematics alphabetical ordering is more commonly , but not exclusively , used . Unless there is a footnote clarifying the authors ' respective contributions , you can not definitely tell which system they used .
I 'm answering within the context of UK Research Council funding : Some Research Council funding is allocated on the basis of specific calls for proposals ( aka managed mode ) : so for example there may be a call to set up a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand , and universities ( or consortia of universities ) will shape proposals to deliver a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand . As part of the call , criteria will be defined about the sort of things such a Centre should deliver , that will be more specific than the usual - impact , engagement , publications - though they will not go as far as specifying particular research questions . Bid applications will be assessed against the usual generic quality and value-for-money criteria , but also against how well they meet the specific proposal criteria . However , other Research Council funding is allocated in responsive mode : these proposals are driven wholly by what the applying Principal Investigator wants to research , and as long as it is within the remit of the Research Council , it will be considered , and assessed on its own merits . That is , the assessment will be against general criteria , and whether it is at all on-topic or not for that Research Council ; but assessment will not be against how well it meets a pre-defined specification for a narrow research area , because for responsive-mode , that pre-defined specification does not exist . Here 's <URL> : Grants are awarded in response to unsolicited research proposals in any area relevant to BBSRC 's mission . As a general principle , BBSRC allocates as much research grant funding as possible in responsive mode . You can apply for a variety of investigator-led research activities through responsive mode . ... Applications are assessed by the appropriate BBSRC Research Committee using the standard BBSRC competitiveness appraisal factors . Responsive mode funding is only available to Higher Education Institutes and Research Institutes , whereas the funding in calls for proposals ( managed mode ) is available not only to those , but in addition it is also available to other <URL>
There is such a thing as <URL> , but I would say that your case ( reusing a figure that you created and providing a citation to it ) is not an instance of it . I also do n't think it is unethical or unprofessional . As Ran G. says in <URL> , just make sure you ask permission from the copyright holder ( if it is n't you ) .
The funding depends on your nationality/residence by a lot , as well as the field , the university , and the supervisor . UK or EEA residents can get funding from national research councils ( such as ESPRC , STFC and many more ) which give them ( usually ) the cost of tuition plus a small living stipend ( when I was applying the living wage was about # 13,000 ) . Non UK/EEA people generally have to self-fund outside of a few special circumstances ( competitive international scholarships such as Rhodes , university bursaries for internationals ) . This is very very rare . However , it 's not terribly uncommon to see students from an above-average financial situation self-funding , but then they need to pay not only their living costs , but also the cost of tuition ( at my old university it was about # 20k per year for international students ) . I wrote an extensive response on all of these issues <URL> and <URL> and <URL> . The other answers from other users on those posts are also excellent . So what happens is that you apply , and then you will be ( hopefully ) asked for an interview . If you are able to compete for the ' normal ' funding pot , you will be interviewed much the same way as everyone else . First a shortlist , then the interviews , and maybe follow-up interviews will be used to select the best candidates from the pool of applicants . If you 're non-UK/EEA , you may or may not interview with everyone else ; it 's up to the university . If they do n't have the money to fund you , many departments will make you an offer anyway ( especially for foreign students ) which you will usually have several months to accept or decline . The research councils will grant the department a certain number of PhD studentship bursaries , and they will distribute them . From what I 've seen , you do n't have to do much self-application for scholarships unless you 're foreign . Though you will always be told where the money is coming from , and there may be some requirements ( a yearly seminar , for example ) to get the money . If you are given a stipend , it is tax-free , unlike in many other countries . Your funding is all-inclusive , not split up into RA or TA like in the US . You can normally make extra money marking coursework or demonstrating in labs , although the ' estimated number of hours ' taken by these activities does n't always match up with the actual number of hours you spend on them !
As an admissions-committee person for an R1 math dept , this would look to me like an obsessive-compulsive waste of time . For most people the years they 're in undergrad school are an enormous transition , and things that happen freshman year are ( hopefully , and , mercifully ) not strongly related to what happens later . People understand this , and often look with some interest on the very contrast between " freshman year " ( and maybe sophomore ) and what happens junior and senior year . While it might seem virtuous to " go back and repair " a bad performance early on , this is a vastly sub-optimal investment of one 's finite time and energy . Look forward , not back . Learn new things , do n't worry about perfecting things that really do n't need perfecting . And , indeed , grad admissions people exactly try to appraise candidates ' sense of " forward " rather than " back " ...
I am a former ' pass ' Part III student . I am going to be blunt here , as I feel emotionally attached to your case and I know why you may feel frustrated ( it may be due to the typical atmosphere that part III students are supplied ) . Part III is just a course that people want to show-off in their CVs ( only one final exam at the end of the year , busy professors , for no particular reason unhealthily competitive students ) . Nobody has ever asked me what my grades were in Part III . Never . I am a Ph.D. , did postdocs and am finalizing a good academic job . All that matters is your hard work in your research . Forget about the scores in Part III . If research is what you want to do in the coming years , just do it without thinking about part III results . You may end up proving that the Part III degree does n't make any difference in anyone 's life for better or worse !
What field are you in ? In mine ( theoretical computer science ) , conference papers get rejected all the time : the better conferences tend to have acceptance rates of around 25-35 % , and <URL> ( thanks to ff524 for the link ) . It 's easy to judge what the best papers are , and accept those ; it 's easy to judge what the worst papers are , and reject those . For everything in the middle , it very much comes down to how enthusiastic the referees were and whether or not at least one member of the programme committee was willing to stand up and argue for your paper being accepted . Assuming your paper was n't one of the obvious-rejects , there 's a decent chance that , if you resubmitted it unaltered to a different conference of about the same standard , it would get accepted . Hopefully , the referee reports made some constructive comments so you can improve the paper before resubmitting it , and have an even better chance . ( Note that I would n't recommend resubmitting unaltered , unless you got no useful advice at all from the referees . As Paul Garrett points out in the comments , it 's not unusual for at least one of the same referees to see the paper next time it 's submitted and it 's rather irksome to see one 's advice ignored . )
If certain fields of academia do in fact frown upon " popularizing " science , then they are shooting themselves in the foot . One of the most important ways of securing funding in different disciplines is through getting support by the federal governments in which they are working . Convincing politician X that you should fund research on doohickey X and widget Y to solve problem Z rather than funding their new shopping mall or football stadium requires convincing them that your research is important and worthwhile . The key to doing this is having a message to sell -- something that the lobbyists and staff persons working for the government officials can take to them and say " this is what you need to know about why this is important . " An excellent way of doing this is to take part in writing columns , producing features for television , and other " popular " methods of outreach . You 'll have to figure out how to distill your message in a way that 's exciting for the viewer or reader , and that will help no only you but your peers as well .
This is an invitation to discuss your plans for obtaining external funding . They want your answers to questions like the following : What agencies fund research like yours ? What projects do you have that you think would be successful in gaining external funding ? Why do you think you would be successful ? Can you point to similar ( but not too similar ) projects that have been funded ? Why would a funding agency agree your work is worthy of support ? Why would they agree that you are a qualified person to carry out the work , and that your project is likely to actually produce useful results ? How would you convince them ? What supporting evidence would you use ? How large would those grants be likely to be ? How do you know ? When do you propose to begin applying for such grants ? Is there anything specific that needs to happen first ? Do you have collaborators in mind with whom you might co-apply ? Have you discussed this with them ?
I have n't been able to publish any papers in international journals yet , though I 'm determined to do so . Will it increase my chances ? Certainly . A post-doc is supposed to play an active role in the publication output of the department . Demonstrating that you have experience with academic publishing is certainly valuable . Without it , it will be difficult to land a academic post-doc position . So how do you successfully find a post-doc position ? First you need to find open positions that fit really well with your experience . Then , you will need to convince them that you are a fit candidate . It certainly helps if you can show tangible results . Think of e.g. working programs that you wrote . You might also consider doing a short post-graduate program at an institute where you would like to do a post-doc ( e.g. in the Netherlands there are 2 year PDEng programs ) . In this way you can demonstrate your abilities , and also get settled in the country of your designation .
I am not sure how you are using the term unemployed . Clearly someone with a paid academic position ( e.g. , adjunct teaching or lab tech ) would not be considered unemployed . I am not sure if you consider an unpaid lab tech or a paid burger flipper as being employed . To me the real issue is being out of the field . If you can not get a relevant paid position and but can afford to be without income for a few months , then a year gap , and probably longer , is n't problematic . In fact many labs will hire unpaid researchers . In this case you could continue to conduct new research , publish , apply for grants , and gain new contacts . You could likely stay in an unpaid position as long as you could afford it without any affects on future job prospects . If you can not get an unpaid research position then it really depends on how long you can milk publications from your past research and produce new research without any affiliation to a research group . If you can not get a relevant paid position and can not afford to be without income for a few months you can sometimes find paid work in a related field . Working as a paid lab tech ( e.g. , washing test tubes ) or adjunct teaching . These types of jobs wo n't help you publish more or get grants and in fact take time away from publishing , research , and getting grants . That said they can provide a limited set of new skills and cotnacts so are probably sustainable for a year or so . In the absence of getting even a peripherally related job taking an unrelated job ( e.g. , burger flipper ) even for a short period ( i.e. , months ) gap can be problematic . Not only will it slow down publishing , research , and grants it may make you less flexible about being able to take up a new related position ( e.g. , how much notice would you have to give ) . You are also not building new skills or contacts . A lot of the impact will depend on how important publication speed is in your field . If a few month delay in publishing will result in you being scooped , any gap is probably bad . Similarly the ability to do research without any resources will help you weather a gap . Similarly , if your field has new instigator grants with a clock that starts ticking upon graduation then gaps are bad .
end question
start question
What can one do when emails to the editor go unanswered ?
Can you contact an Associate Editor or another member of the editorial board ? More than 18 months with no communication does seem excessively long and the lack of response from the editor suggests something is wrong . You might also try the secretary in the editor 's department and ask her if she can get in touch with him . If you do n't hear back from them either , I would withdraw the paper and submit it somewhere else . Hopefully , there 's a way to do that in the online system -- but if not , contacting them one last time with the notification should be sufficient . They ca n't publish the paper without you signing some forms .
Generally speaking , any critiques should be brief and directed ( i.e. , " the cited works failed to consider < X > in their analysis " , " to simplify their model , they assumed < X > , whereas in reality < Y > " ) . If you 're criticizing assumptions , be sure to specifically state which assumptions you challenge , and clearly deliniate ( with references ) why they are incorrect . Note that many papers use incorrect assumptions to begin work in a new field , and your critique should recognize that ( i.e. , " The seminal paper assumed < X > [ 1 ] . We extend this work by removing said assumption . " ) If you 're criticizing conclusions , again state specifically which conclusion you disagree with , and be sure to provide data/analyses to back up your conclusion . If you 're challenging their data , note that ( in neuroscience , at least ) this is perfectly common ; findings differ all the time . Progress often stems from finding the cause of these differences between data . You should note the difference and mention something along the lines of " Our findings differ from those of < X > [ 1 ] , and we believe this is because < Y > " . Note that it is almost a requirement to mention something like this ; if you do n't , ( 1 ) the researchers whose paper you missed will probably mildly insulted , and ( 2 ) people familiar with the field will assume you did n't do your basic literature search , which makes you look stupid . Needless to say , ad hominem attacks are always inappropriate and should never appear in scientific literature .
The best way to deal with this is on a broader level and explain the rules during an introductory or preparatory course to all incoming students . For example , at our department , first year students have to follow a course on academic skills , and there they also talk about emailing professors . It also has the advantage that students do n't have to deal with different expectations by each professor . One sign that it works at least to a certain extent : Students seem to learn in that course that they should sign with their name and their student number ( something which I never expected and definitly did not ask for ) , but most of them actually do sign this way ( at least when contacting me first ) .
In math , FPSAC ( Formal Power Series and Algebraic Combinatorics ) accepts and referees " extended abstracts " for presentations . Presenters are selected based ( in part ) on the quality of these abstracts , and the abstracts appear in a special issue of DMTCS . The submission guidelines for FPSAC state The authors will retain the right of publishing a full version of their work in another journal . Authors who do intend to publish a full version elsewhere should however make sure that their conference contribution is clearly an extended abstract of this full version . Several conference centers publish proceedings of their workshops , for which presenters are asked to submit extended abstracts of their talks after the fact ; for example , both AIM ( the American Institute of Mathematics ) and Oberwolfach ( formally known as Mathematisches Forschungsinstitut Oberwolfach ) do this . Again , the norm is that the abstract should be a summary of your presentation , with less detail than the published version . I think that the main answer here is going to be " see if the conference organizers have made a statement , and check with some more senior people as to what the unwritten norms are " .
As stated by Massimo Ortolano , the typesetting is followed by a final check , proofreading , by the author . In many journals ( I will not venture to say all ) the movement of an article from the editor involves additional steps . The article is scrutinized to make sure it follows the journal format down to the smallest detail . this can be done by the editor , it can also be done by the type-setter but there may also be a step where a third person , the copy editor , is involved . The copy editor will make sure there are no grammatical errors as well as checking formal issues regarding style and formatting of journal specific issues including references . The result of the type-setting procedure is that some changes will occur but they should not be serious enough to alter the meaning of things . However , this can happen and is usually the result of an over-zealous editor , copy editor or type-setter , or a combination of the three . It is therefore quite important to review the proof very carefully . It is also vital to adhere to the journal format already when the manuscript is submitted since the risk of later editing errors is reduced . What system " your " journal uses may involve all or a few of the ones mentioned above . Depending on the setup the type-setter may be more or less involved with the text but in its pure form the type-setter should only place figures and format headings , text , references etc. according to journal standards . The proof should then also only involve very minor changes ( all issue should have been resolved much earlier in the review/revisions process including adhering to journal format ) . In most journals with which I am familiar , the time allowed for proofing is very short , perhaps , one work week . this will vary between journals somewhat and I know some may have only a few days whereas other may allow somewhat longer . In the end it is mostly you who will " suffer " from lateness since your article may be published later than originally planned by the journal . My recommendation is to be accessible on a regular basis once a manuscript has gone to type-setting and expect to spend a few hours proofing it within a few days upon receiving it . At least you now usually proof a digital copy ( pdf ) and not a paper proof that has to be sent via regular mail ( although I suspect that still can be the case with some journals ) .
Yes , that sort of etiquette ( CC ' ing the PI of each involved partner in a collaboration , even for exchanges at lower level ) exist in some groups . It is particularly true of recent collaborations , either because they have been established recently or because the research is still in its infancy . In both case , I suppose it is nice to help PI 's stay on top of how things are progressing , both on the science and on the interpersonal relationships ( like , is everyone acting professionally ) . It 's not universal , but it is common . It depends a lot on the nature of the relations between the PI 's and their groups . I tend to ask students/post-docs to keep me in CC of the first few emails to our collaborator after they arrive/we start the project , then after sometime I tell them to drop me when it 's evident things are going well . In your situation , the safest course of action is to keep people on the CC list . You did n't CC them , but someone did , so do n't drop them unless they ask for it . Also , ask your own boss how he likes to do things . " I imagine that as a group leader you get flooded with emails , so why would you request more ? " -- Whatever you do , you will be flooded with emails . You do n't read them all , but you may skim those for tone/content , keeping an eye on things .
I would try the following : Contact the department ( s ) where you are applying , and ask them if they have received the letter . ( It 's possible that they have received it , but for some reason it has not yet been logged in their online system . ) Explain that you would ask the professor herself but you can not reach her . If they say they have not received it , ask if they would be willing to keep your application under consideration , pending the arrival of the letter . I do n't know if this will help , but it 's worth a try . Contact the professor 's department chair and see if he/she knows anything about the professor 's whereabouts . It is possible that something unusual has happened ( e.g. she is in the hospital ) , in which case the chair may be able to write a note to the admission committee explaining the circumstances and asking for their patience . If it seems that the letter may not be forthcoming within a few days , consider seeing if someone else can write you a letter . Be sure to explain to them the circumstances , so they understand that it is urgent for reasons beyond your control . Hopefully someone who has been on an admission committee will add an answer saying how they normally handle such situations ( which must be rather common ) .
Western Style Chinese Academy From <URL> wiki page Tongwen Guan ( Chinese :  ) , or the School of Combined Learning was a government school for teaching Western languages ( and later scientific subjects ) , founded at Beijing , China in 1862 during the late-Qing dynasty ... It became part of the Imperial Capital University ( now Peking University ) since 1902 . ... Government sponsored Chinese style academy From <URL> wiki page Shang Xiang ( Chinese :  ; pinyin : shng xing ; Wade -- Giles : Shang Hsiang ) , was a school founded in the Yu Shun (  ) era in China . Shun ( 2257 BCE -- 2208 BCE ) , the Emperor of the Kingdom of Yu (  , or  / Youyu ) , founded two schools . One was Shang Xiang ( shang (  ) , means up , high ) , and the other one was Xia Xiang (  , xia (  ) means down , low ) . [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Shang Xiang was a place to educate noble youth . Teachers at Shang Xiang were generally erudite , elder and noble persons . From <URL> wiki page Taixue ... was the highest rank of educational establishment in Ancient China between the Han Dynasty and Sui Dynasty ... The first nationwide government school system in China was established in 3 CE under Emperor Ping of Han ... Privately owned Chinese style academy From <URL> wiki page ... shuyuan were usually private establishments , ... The shuyuan originated in 725 ... From <URL> ... According to " Records of All Officials , " a volume of The New Chronicles of the Tang Dynasty , " in the sixth year of the Kaiyan Reign ( AD 718 ) Qianyuan Academy changed its name to Lizheng Academy ( Academy of Elegance and Rectitude ) , the newly created positions of supervisors and copy editors were filled and compiler-academicians became auxiliary-academician ...
First things first : whenever you write again or otherwise contact your potential advisor , stay polite and respectful . Conduct yourself in the most professional manner you can . While you might feel your correspondent is acting unprofessionally in not responding at a rate that pleases you , asking again in anything that looks like a demanding tone is not going to reflect well on you . There are many possible reasons why your correspondent has n't replied to your first email yet , even 10 days down the line . You are probably already quite aware of the possibilities , but here are a few : He/she is simply busy . Is it a busy time of year ? Is it examination time ? Is he/she likely to busy marking/providing feedback . providing lectures ? Is he/she on holiday ? A quick check with the Department/School/Institute administration should answer this . There could be personal reasons . You do n't want to appear a demanding person when the academic is making preparations for a family member 's funeral - for example ! Extreme sitation , yes , but not impossible . With these possibilities in mind , you could write again to your potential advisor , reminding him/her that you are very keen to work together . I do not advise simply re-sending your original email unless you have good reason to believe that the original did n't reach its target - e.g. you have received a mailhost error relating to an undelivered message . I suspect this is not the case . In your follow-up email , refer to your previous email . Resending an email is similar to saying to someone " I SAID ... !!! " . In your follow-up email , I would acknowledge that the academic might well be very busy and that you would gratefully appreciate any time the academic could spend talking with you about research opportunities . Offer alternatives - you 've hinted at this - such as arranging a meeting or a telephone call at a time convenient for the academic . At this stage , be reasonably formal . Your spelling and grammar should be as good as you can make it . This indicates that you are taking this correspondence seriously , as should he/she . It is very easy to appear demanding , annoying or otherwise negative in an email , even if that is not your intention . Turn up the politeness up a few notches , even if you think it 's starting to be sickly and ingratiating . In emails , it is extremely easy to appear demanding or accusatory . You do n't have the advantage of being present in a conversation to send all those little non-verbal clues which make up the vast majority of human communication . I think that it is appropriate to mention that you have some expectations when you 'd like to have this interaction . You could mention that you are meeting with other advisers ( if true ) and that you 'd like to be in a position to make a decision in one/two month 's time . For this reason , you 'd like to have a meeting sometime in the next 1-2 weeks , if possible . Summary : You be unfailingly polite and professional , You put effort into your next email - do n't just resend a previous one , You suggest as many alternatives for an interaction you can think of , You provide some kind of time-scale for action .
In the sciences , it is almost expected if you want to go into academia that you will do at least one postdoc . ( In some disciplines like astrophysics , you might even do more than one ! ) There are a lot of different job boards out there for finding a postdoc , but your best source ( assuming you are still on speaking terms ) is your thesis advisor . He/she will likely have friends and colleagues looking for a postdoc . Those folks will then know the background you are coming from and likely put you on their short list . Good luck !
I assume you are talking about a document that is part of your application to universities ( e.g. for a PhD ) , which would be called a research statement here in the UK . Then the answer is simple : you want to maximise your chances of each application . So invest the extra effort and make individual documents to maximise your chances . Different departments have different priorities , so you want to emphasise how your plans fit to the research agenda of each place you are applying to . While it may be convenient to send the same SOP to each place , you can show that you have researched the place you are applying to and at least modify the SOP to fit to the place you are applying to .
Without additional details , it will be impossible to provide very detailed answers so from a general point , each case has its own solutions . The first question I would ask is , what is my part in this and how can I best help out ( best may be = nothing ) . In general I would try to help out as much as I can unless the problem lies in the realm of a conflict or personal problems . Then there is not much you can do except suggest professional help . If the candidate is a good student then I would certainly support with any letter of recommendation I could . Since you mention morale issues in the group , it suggests some form of non-trivial problem . In some cases too much help makes people fall into a false sense of security so to be shaken can be useful as long as the reasons are very clear . So without trying to read too much into what is between the lines , I think the degree of help depends on to what extent help can or should be given ( seen from an objective point ) . Probably not the most satisfactory answer but being responsible for the research education at my dept. , I have seen how difficult these matters can be . In our case , I would also be a resource to help out , if nothing else just to discuss the matter . ( This does not mean I run a research group completely without problems myself ! )
Since in a recent email your advisor has told you about the health issue , it is perfectly acceptable for you to sympathize/empathize with them and it would not be out of place to ask if you could do anything regarding your work to accommodate them . That said , if you feel uncomfortable raising the issue , you should be able to depend on your advisor being mature enough to tell you what he/she needs in terms of accommodations . If your advisor had not mentioned anything to you and you wish to sympathize/empathize with them , then you need to be more delicate .
Can you contact an Associate Editor or another member of the editorial board ? More than 18 months with no communication does seem excessively long and the lack of response from the editor suggests something is wrong . You might also try the secretary in the editor 's department and ask her if she can get in touch with him . If you do n't hear back from them either , I would withdraw the paper and submit it somewhere else . Hopefully , there 's a way to do that in the online system -- but if not , contacting them one last time with the notification should be sufficient . They ca n't publish the paper without you signing some forms .
Send an email to the conference program chair right away and ask . The better conferences will be honest with you , either way . The answer could be no revision , but then you could move on . These mistakes happen .
I know that graduate research students should not publish works without their professor 's permission . It 's a little more complicated than that . Nobody needs permission to publish anything that they did entirely on their own . If you work collaboratively or as part of a team , then it 's not 100 % your work and you need your collaborators ' permission . If you do not collaborate but work under someone else 's supervision , then it 's still polite to ask for advice/permission . ( They might see it as more of a collaboration than you do , and in any case your submission may reflect on their supervision so it is reasonable to get their feedback first . ) Is this rule relevant to students in taught programs ? If you have no collaborators or supervisors in the research , then you can publish it however you 'd like . Can I submit my paper for credit in a course , without giving up ownership of the paper ? I do n't know of any case where you give up rights to a paper by submitting it in a course , so ownership is probably not the relevant issue here . In the universities I 'm familiar with , you can certainly submit for publication an essay that was written for a class assignment ( most such papers would not be accepted for publication , but a few could be ) . On the other hand , you can not get class credit for a paper that you previously wrote for another purpose . The precise rules in your case may differ , but if you plan to use this paper for a class you should investigate your university 's rules .
When I get an invitation to contribute a book chapter ( or conference paper in an invited session ) , I usually ask myself the following questions : Can I have a reasonable contribution ready for the proposed submission deadline ? Is the venue I am invited to a good fit and does it provide the best possible visibility for my contribution ? Do I want to invite the person inviting me to similar occasions in the future ? Ideally , you should be able to answer at least questions 1 and 2 with " yes " before accepting the invitation . If your answer to question 2 would be " no " , it may still be wise to accept the invitation in view of question 3 . For this type of invitations , I would try to find a smaller contribution which fits the visibility of the proposed publication venue . In a book chapter , for example a summarizing synthesis of some of your previous results might be appropriate .
I would only do so if you have a very good reason to want a particular editor ( or to avoid another one ) : while there can exist valid such reasons , it could also be a warning sign for editors . For example , if you ask that the editor not be the " usual " editor for your particular subfield , it may be regarded as you trying to avoid careful scrutiny . So , if you are not asked about it , and you do n't really care ( or trust them to make the right call ) ( which should be the majority of cases ) , just do n't do it . Regarding usage : most of the chemistry journals I know allow you to pick your handling editor directly from a list ( although availability and workload management might lead to changes after submission ) , and some journals allow you to pick both preferred and non-preferred editors .
Search the web for it : open archives , search engine , authors webpages , whatever ( you 've probably done that already ... ) Ask the contact author for a copy , which she 'll usually be very happy to provide . I regularly get such requests from other researchers in my field , and it feels very good to know that people are actually interested in your work . If the contact author does n't respond , try the senior author , then other authors . Try your local library . Look into their database , and also ask the librarian there if the document might be available through loan from other libraries . I 've never had much success doing that , but you never know ... Ask a few colleagues at different institutions if they can get it for free ( see <URL> ) . If you have friends at large/famous/well-funded US universities ( Princeton , Harvard , ... ) , they probably have a more comprehensive access than you . If it 's a really important paper , pay for it ! Whatever happens , make sure you make a copy for others in your lab/group , and archive it . When I started my PhD , there was a folder ( the heavy paper type , not the computer type ) labeled " important but hard to find papers " that the group had accumulated along the years . It was the most treasured object in the whole lab .
The way the preferred reviewers are used varies . Some go by these suggestions whole-heartedly while others do not . I lean towards the latter since my experience with some preferred names is less than favourable . In my experience names listed can be good . I usually double check to see if persons seem affiliated in some way and if they do I avoid appointing them . As a rule , however , I try to find persons independently and based on my own experience . I tend to use the preferred names as back-ups unless my preference and the authors coincide . The reason for my slight aversion towards the preferred is that some authors tend to list friends and other persons who are obviously close to the authors . I have seen many low quality reviews come out from such reviewers an clearly at a rate very different from independently chosen reviewers . Judging what is too close is not easy and sometimes it may be justified if , for example , the topic is such that local knowledge comes into play . For the reason of uncertainty I therefore try to at least mix them up so that one is chosen by me independently and the other is selected from the authors suggestions . So , try to assess the quality of the preferred reviewers and at least try to find some to complement a preferred reviewer will be my advice . It is also common that authors list non-preferred reviewers . I always stay clear of such reviewers since I do not know what lies beneath the sentiment .
end question
start question
Does one need a master 's in math before taking a PhD in math in Europe ?
I will try to respond to the abstract question , with a perspective from Germany ( that may or may not be valid for other European countries ) : Is the master 's in X PhD requirement in Europe satisfied by a master 's in Applied X rather than Pure X ? The general answer to this is yes . As opposed to the subject chosen for the Bachelor and Master degree , which is <URL> , as Bachelor and Master curricula are closely coupled here , a PhD is often completely disconnected from the former studies . Note that the <URL> that <URL> linked to in the original version of <URL> does not require a particular Master 's degree , but a " relevant Master 's degree " . Without any further restrictions , this means that anything closely related to the subject ( and the relationship between Applied X and Pure X might very well be sufficient ) should do . At least , that would be the interpretation in Germany ; it is possible Austrians interpret this differently . However , it is also very well possible that the suitability of the Master 's major is determined based on the research projects at hand . In that case , it depends entirely on the decision of the respective department chair , and it would be worthwhile to contact departments you are interested in . As a concrete example , it is completely normal in Germany to see Masters of Physics , Linguistics , and Maths starting PhDs in Computer Science , not only Masters in Computer Science . EDIT : To clarify the last remark : None of them have to take any extra courses ; rather , they are expected to bring their professional subject-specific knowledge from physics , linguistics , and maths , respectively , into their computer science research ( while " informally " ( i.e. without a class ) catching up with the CS knowledge ) , just like Masters in CS are expected to use their professional CS-specific knowledge in their computer science research , while " informally " acquiring knowledge on ( w.l.o.g. ) physics , linguistics , and maths , as required for their respective research .
If you are using OSCOLA style , then the footnotes will include all the necessary bibliographic information and a bibliography/works cited is not required . See , for example , the <URL> , which follows OSCOLA style . Generally speaking , most styles that require a Works Cited/Bibliography have " in-line " or " parenthetical " citations , rather than footnotes ( e.g. , <URL> style ) . The key thing to remember is that the purpose of citations is to allow your readers to consult your sources for themselves and , where you are citing secondary sources , to give credit to the authors for their contribution to the scholarly conversation .
I ca n't speak for purest math , but many parts of computer science overlap so I think there may be some similarity ... If you know that you want a Ph.D. and are able to get into a good Ph.D. program straight out of undergraduate , more power to you : this is a fine path to go on . This may not , however , be possible or desirable for a number of reasons . Some examples of good reasons to get a Master 's at one institution before switching to another : You might not get into grad school on the first try , and a Master 's program is a good place to progress academically while you prepare to try again ( this was one of my reasons ) The Master 's is a natural break-point for transferring to a program that is stronger or a better fit . Non-academic reasons , such as family issues , following a partner , visa problems , etc. .
This varies greatly , depending on the type of postdoctoral position . Some postdocs are funded by a specific grant . Then they have a supervisor , namely the PI on the grant . How formal the supervision is can vary , but someone is at least nominally in charge of the postdoc , and there 's an expectation that the postdoc will do something relevant to the grant . Other postdocs are hired by the department or a mathematics institute , rather than a particular PI ( this is especially common in pure mathematics ) . Often the postdoc is assigned a mentor , but what 's involved in the mentoring relationship can vary . It could consist of collaborative research , serious professional guidance , or just chatting occasionally .
The best way to answer your question is to explain that it 's a two-step process : First , you need to be admitted to the master 's program . If you 're coming in as an international student , this can be in and of itself very difficult , particularly if you are applying to what is known as a " consecutive " master 's degree program , for which the usual prerequisite is a bachelor 's degree in the same field from a German university . If you are coming from a different field , or from outside Germany , you need to have the university recognize and accept your credentials as substantially equivalent to the bachelor 's degree in question . After you have gained admission , you can then proceed to establish that courses you have taken are equivalent to the master 's courses offered in the degree program of interest . Normally this has to be approved by the instructor of each course you 're interested in getting " transfer credit " for . Thus , you wo n't be admitted into the " second year " or " semester n " of a given master 's program , but you can get the equivalent credit , which will thus shorten your overall time-to-degree accordingly .
I disagree with Damien 's answer for the specific case of your question . A graduate of the department , who knows you very well and can write a good letter of recommendation , is worth just as much as the " big name , " because she is familiar with the department as it is currently operating , and would be able to place your work in context of people also known in the department . So , for the specific case of applying to a school that is someone else 's alma mater , I would say go for it , with a caveat . That caveat is that if a person is not able of writing a good letter of recommendation , then you should n't use it . A bad letter will not help you at all . If you have a career services office or academic counselor who can help you sort through which letters are most suitable for graduate school applications , that will help you make the decision .
I do n't mean to be rude but JeffE 's answer ( which I can not comment on-site as I do n't have the necessary reputation ) Whatever . Your major wo n't matter as much as your demonstrated potential for research in applied mathematics , which you can develop in almost ( ? ) any engineering discipline . is so off-base , it 's like saying that majoring in English gives you license to do a PhD in any field that involves writing in the English language . Engineering is certainly not a substitute for applied mathematics , and the transition can be very harsh . First of all , you need to localize yourself . Applied mathematics in the US is different from applied mathematics in the UK , which is different from applied mathematics in France . Similarly , applied mathematics at Harvard ( which would not be with mathematics , but SEAS ) would be different from applied mathematics at Courant at NYU or in the Mathematics department at Princeton ( who do n't have an applied mathematics department , but rather a Program ) In any case , you will be expected to know all the core mathematics curriculum that pure mathematicians take in their first two years . From here , it will depend on what subfield of applied mathematics you 're interested in . For example , if you are applying to a subfield that involves the classical mathematical physics ( like solid or fluid mechanics ) , then you would need classes on those . Engineering classes are vastly different from mathematics classes in almost all the mathematical topics . There might be some overlap in terms of , for example , fluid mechanics , but even then there is a big distinction between engineering fluid mechanics and mathematical fluid mechanics . For instance , mathematical fluid mechanics would involve more rigorous reductions and derivations of the Navier-Stokes equations ( exploring techniques in asymptotic analysis , for instance ) . There is some possibility of jumping from an engineering degree to an applied mathematics PhD , but again , this would depend on the country and the university and the department . If you want to examine the difference , look at the applied mathematics department at Cambridge University and compare to the applied mathematics group at the Courant Institute in NYU . Also , examine the PhDs of current faculty .
No , there are no general worldwide standards , other than " the examiners should be satisfied " . Your advisor is probably the best person to answer questions like this for your specific case .
The few times I was asked for such a thing , I literally copy-pasted the abstract for my thesis into a document and submitted it . mathjobs does n't want to tell me which jobs asked for it back when I applied so I 'm not sure ( I got two postdoc offers that round but I 'm pretty sure those places did n't ask for a thesis abstract ) . No one emailed me to tell me that I 'd done it wrong though . Usually there is a contact person listed in each mathjobs ad that you could contact to ask for details , but if say the deadline is tonight I would recommend just copy-pasting the thesis abstract , or making up a thesis abstract if your thesis does n't exist yet . In principle though , the introduction to your research statement and your thesis abstract can be ( but is n't always ) quite distinct ( my thesis was a subset of my research statement ) . A research statement should have at least something to say about where you envision your research going , but a thesis abstract is mostly limited to the contents of your thesis .
This is , of course , ultimately up to you , people can only advise you ; I will provide a list of some things to think about ; hopefully this will help :) You say that you want to " do a good research project " . Is n't that what the master 's project is for ? I do n't know anything about unofficial projects but it could work . Yes , taking a break from academia would be a slight disadvantage , but if you 're doing an unofficial project , then this wo n't be a problem at all , will it ? " High impact research " , in my opinion , is a very ambitious/risky thing to set your mind on , in terms of a master 's - level project . Do n't forget that as a master 's student , you are still expected to be learning ; a PhD supervisor is unlikely to expect something like this , although they would like it ! Can you do a project over summer ? In the UK at least , there are loads of paid internships and summer projects available , both with universities and industry .
A reference list is the list of things that are referenced . A list containing other items that were used is called a bibliography .
The University of Cambridge 's <URL> recognizes a " Licenciado with an overall grade of between 8 and 9 out of 10 " as " At least a 2i honours degree from a UK university or an equivalent standard from an overseas university " , but also says that it 's equivalent to a Singaporean Master 's degree . I 'd guess that most universities would consider it definitely equivalent to a Bachelors and probably also a Masters degree .
This is n't just PhD theses : many books are formatted so that all chapters start on a right-hand page . Conventionally , all right-hand pages have odd numbers , and left-hand pages have even numbers . However , theses are often formatted single-sided , for the convenience of examiners , and so there would be no right/left distinction in that instance . Another possibility is that page numbering sometimes uses Roman numerals for the " front matter " ( all pages before the start of the first chapter ) , and then begins again with Arabic numerals for the " main matter " . In this case , the first chapter will start with page 1 , which is an odd number . Your observation will not be the case for all theses , but it may hold when the institution 's rules , or the software tools being used , follow these standard formatting principles .
Yes . Admissions committees are looking for evidence of research potential . Having a research publication in any area is direct evidence of that potential . ( One of the first hurdles that I encourage my own PhD students to jump early is publish something . Anything . The point is for them to see the publication process -- writing , editing , submitting , reading reviews , revising , resubmitting -- and to kill off any doubts in their minds that they can do publishable research . )
I had a similar case , though my incomplete Master 's came before a completed Master 's in an entirely different field . Any gaps or oddities in your past are questioned . In my case , I had not completed a Master 's in Biology , left , worked for a few years , finished a Master 's in Computer Science , and then got a much better job . Do not remove that entry about being a PhD student . It can potentially come back to bite you down the road if it is found during a background check/re-evaluation , as you are purposely concealing potentially vital information . Instead , prepare to be asked why you are leaving the PhD program during your interview phase . I am not sure of your reasons , but you should be able to bounce your answer off any friends and supportive colleagues to see if they are convinced . Also , consider contacting a technical recruiter to go over your application to evaluate your portfolio . That will help you narrow down any other potential issues with your resume .
U.S. Immigration Law : While doing a summer internship would be seen as compatible with still being a full-time student because of the extended American summer , if you did the 6-month internship you may have difficulty arguing that you are still a full-time , enrolled student . You need to ask your university foreign student 's office for advice as to how you can retain your F-1 status .1 French Immigration Law : You need to clarify with the French company that you will have a valid visa status while in the EU . University Policy : As with US immigration law , you need to make sure that your status in the program is not interrupted by the internship . 1 . Note that CPT ( Curricular Practical Training ) does not apply as you are not applying to work within the USA . The main concern is that your absence for 6-months is not seen as a disruption of your studies from the perspective of maintaining your F1 visa . Your international students office should be able to advise how to maintain your student status . The bonus is that you should be able to use your OPT year in its full since you did not take a CPT .
I will try to respond to the abstract question , with a perspective from Germany ( that may or may not be valid for other European countries ) : Is the master 's in X PhD requirement in Europe satisfied by a master 's in Applied X rather than Pure X ? The general answer to this is yes . As opposed to the subject chosen for the Bachelor and Master degree , which is <URL> , as Bachelor and Master curricula are closely coupled here , a PhD is often completely disconnected from the former studies . Note that the <URL> that <URL> linked to in the original version of <URL> does not require a particular Master 's degree , but a " relevant Master 's degree " . Without any further restrictions , this means that anything closely related to the subject ( and the relationship between Applied X and Pure X might very well be sufficient ) should do . At least , that would be the interpretation in Germany ; it is possible Austrians interpret this differently . However , it is also very well possible that the suitability of the Master 's major is determined based on the research projects at hand . In that case , it depends entirely on the decision of the respective department chair , and it would be worthwhile to contact departments you are interested in . As a concrete example , it is completely normal in Germany to see Masters of Physics , Linguistics , and Maths starting PhDs in Computer Science , not only Masters in Computer Science . EDIT : To clarify the last remark : None of them have to take any extra courses ; rather , they are expected to bring their professional subject-specific knowledge from physics , linguistics , and maths , respectively , into their computer science research ( while " informally " ( i.e. without a class ) catching up with the CS knowledge ) , just like Masters in CS are expected to use their professional CS-specific knowledge in their computer science research , while " informally " acquiring knowledge on ( w.l.o.g. ) physics , linguistics , and maths , as required for their respective research .
Journals typically provides guidelines as to what formats are possible , for example , Word and/or LaTeX for text , eps , pdf , TIFF ; JPG etc. for graphics . Wiley , for example , provides a <URL> for graphics that is general in their <URL> . Adhering to the requested file formats may be quite important although with Wiley , I have noted that they accept common formats for graphics although they are not specifically mentioned in the general guide line . As for formatting of text , I would ( as editor for a journal ) argue that you should keep it as simple as possible do not attempt fancy formatting , keep it tidy and readable make sure your figures are of good quality and reproduced well in the files you provide follow any instructions for authors , or equivalent , the journal may provide ( if such IFAs do not exist , then use a standard font and make , for example headings clearly visible against the main text and check the journal for reference system and formatting )
I do n't know much about bioengineering and materials sciences . In my area ( CS ) there are many more industrial positions available than academic positions . However , industrial positions often tend be clustered in regions , and there might not be too many academic jobs in those regions ( or they might be very highly competitive ) . Sadly though , I suspect that basing your decisions on where you might do a postdoc is a problem , because a postdoc itself is a temporary position , and so you 're really only deferring the real problem . One argument would be that if postdocs in your area take a while ( say 3-4 years vs 1-2 ) , then you might as well operate as if that were the permanent job , and then reevaluate after your time is done and you 're on the academic job market . Good luck : two-body problems are tricky , and when one partner is on the academic track it gets even trickier .
I believe that career changes and " reinventions " are a regular part of modern careers in highly specialized fields . Very few people will be able to work in a single domain for their entire careers , and the ability to move laterally between " adjacent " fields will be a critical skill enabling one to have greater chances and opportunities for success . Now , that said , your chances of success in any particular job hunt will depend to some extent on how " enlightened " your future boss ( or hiring staff ) are : some will actively seek out anyone with the appropriate skill set and enthusiasm for the work , while others will be more focused on people who have the " direct " skills they need , assuming such people will require less training to be able to carry out their work . Neither of these positions is " better " ; they just happen to coexist .
end question
start question
Is it worth getting a masters in a secondary field as part of an interdisciplinary PhD ?
When you are evaluated as a job candidate in academia , the first thing people will see is your PhD . That will tell them that you know how to dig into a topic , get the background knowledge that you need in order to conduct the research you are interested in . The next thing they will look at is your publication record . Because of the peer review process , they will feel confident that if you publish in reputable journals on a particular topic , you know what you 're talking about . So if you 're sure you 're headed for academia , I think you will be fine just cherry-picking the particular courses you think will be most helpful for you in Environmental Policy . ( Although if you find that you 're , say , only one or two courses away from satisfying the requirements for the masters , then I suppose you might as well finish it off . ) Think of how many PhDs veer off in a different direction during the course of their career ! They do n't bother getting a new PhD in the process , because they already have one . You can think of the PhD studies as the apprenticeship to do research , and the PhD as a driver 's license which was issued in one state , but which you can use in other states .
Universities , and departments , often view Masters degree students as something of a cash-cow , so there are far less funding options than are available to PhD students . That being said , there are a number of options you have before turning to family : There may be a limited number of TA/RAships available to Masters students . The benefits will depend on the university , but will likely include a modest salary , and will possibly include benefits like health insurance or tuition remission . You can work your way through it , viewing tuition as just a major life expense . This of course depends on the local job market . You can take on debt . Many people I know took out student loans in order to pay for their Masters . Whether or not this is desirable and economically justified is another question , but it is always an option .
The link in your question lists many possible job opportunites of what applied mathematicians have . They all look exciting to me ( and possibly you ) and they are useful to human society . However , you probably will have some difficulties when you apply for those jobs . There are two things you do n't have yet : Math knowledge in depth ( you do n't have PhD in Math ) and domain knowledge ( you have no work experience ) . For example , How might disease spread in populated areas in the event of a bioterrorism incident , and how would it be contained ? . Do you have enough Virology background to devise algorithms to simulate this ? Do you have enough Math knowledge to solve the math problems behind the algorithms ? Another example , How can you allocate an investment among various financial instruments to meet a risk/reward trade-off ? . How much do you know about Finance ? How much do you know about quantitive finance mathematics ? You need to have at least one of them , either math in depth or domain expertise . Without either one of them , the best you can do is a research assistant or simply a programmer ( to implement the algorithms other scientists and mathematicians devise ) . My advice to you : either pursue a PhD in Applied Math or a masters degree in an area that suits your most interest .
Do not say : " I did engineering undergraduate because my parents made me . " Why ? Because you are applying for graduate school . The admissions committee wants to see adults . Referring to your parents ( at all ) makes it seem like you are not independent -- that your parents run your life . Whether or not they do , it does not benefit you to give such an impression . You do n't want to put the idea in their heads , whether or not it is true now ( or then ) . I suggest , if your really must mention it at all , something along the lines of : " My time as a Engineering undergraduate has made clear to me my true desires . While engineering is a interesting and worthy subject , my passion is for mathematical side I saw during my studies . "
I think most researchers want to influence and possibly work in different areas , but we ca n't all be revolutionaries in several fields . There are two opposing issues that one needs to balance at any stage of academia ( or that pesky thing called life ) : Doing anything significant usually takes real time and effort Each individual has limited resources , such as time and effort As research has progressed over the past centuries things have gotten more specialized and there indeed has been a necessary tendency for researchers to focus on more and more narrow aspects of science . However , the branches of science are highly interconnected , and fundamental work in one area often has ramifications in many areas ( which the original research may or may not be involved with ) . Recently , there has been more emphasis on interdisciplinary research , which it sounds like the kind of thing you are interested in . So this opportunity is certainly available for researchers who are interested . However , interdisciplinary research is easier with certain specialities than others . ( If you run a lab with lots of specialized equipment , you will be limited by the capabilities of the equipment . ) For instance , interdisciplinary work seems to be pretty common with people who do mathematical biology , or more generally applied math/statistics . They often collaborate with different specialists in different fields/subfields who want to apply mathematical techniques/models to their problems , and in the process learn something about that particular subfield . My suggestion , if you want to go this direction , is look for an advisor in graduate school who does ( and if possible , whose students do ) interdisciplinary research that you find exciting . Another way to influence people in different areas is through teaching , giving lectures and writing textbooks . Yet another way is by working for a grant agency or as a policy advisor , to help decide what research gets funded . Working for a scientific publishing company , as you mention , is also a possiblity , but journal editors are professional researchers . Similarly , university administration is run by professors . Thus there are many options , but these typically require specialized knowledge , so the preparation is the same as becoming a researcher .
The situation may be challenging , but you do n't need to be uncomfortable with it . In academic research , it is not uncommon that the one doing the actual project is more familiar with the material than the one supervising it . While it 's probably rarely the case in an undergraduate - PhD student relation , it almost becomes the norm in the PhD student - professor relation , at least as the PhD student becomes more senior . Keep in mind that supervising is not only about teaching the material , but also about how to act and conduct research professionally . I hope you feel more confident about the latter aspect ! In your specific situation , there seem to be two possible steps if you feel you need to do something about it . Talk to the student you supervise , explain that your background is in a different field , and openly state that you may not be able to fully help on the content side of the project . If the student is sufficiently confident in working more independently , you should be able to be more relaxed as well . Otherwise , you may need to talk to your supervisor again and explain the problem . Maybe he can point out an additional member of the group who would be able to help with the aspects you ca n't cover .
You have two options that are IMHO equally good . Either cite them as one item with three links : [ 1 ] J. Doe : Foo bar ( I. , II. , and III . ) , 2015 , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . Or cite them as three items : [ 1 ] J. Doe : Foo bar , part I. , 2015 , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . [ 2 ] J. Doe : Foo bar , part II. , 2015 , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . [ 3 ] J. Doe : Foo bar , part III. , 2015 , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . If they were three articles in an article series , they would be cited as three items for sure . But for blog posts , no canonical citation style is established ( or maybe some style mention it , but it 's not a universally accepted thing ) ; this means that any style that contains the relevant information is OK . As for me personally , I would probably stick to the second variant , unless you commonly cite multiple items with one number ( some chemists and engineers do this ) .
This is correct only if the source of the first sentence is exclusively [ 1 ] and the source of your second sentence is exclusively [ 2 ] . That is , if you learn " The { { Foo } } algorithm allows the { { Bar } } problem to be solved " from [ 1 ] without having read [ 2 ] , and " It is based on the fact that { { Equation } } holds under { { Conditions } } " is an original contribution of [ 2 ] that is not in [ 1 ] , then your citation is correct . Otherwise , you may have to cite [ 1,2 ] for the first and/or second sentence as appropriate .
As far as I 'm aware there is no obligation to provide a translation of a published paper from one language to another . I think it would be rude to ask for a translation of a paper . However , it would generally be fine to enquire as to whether such a translation exists , or whether similar work has been published in English . More broadly , it may be in the author 's interests to provide an English translation in order to increase the impact of his or her work . If the work is really important to you , you could always pay for a translation . At the extreme end , perhaps where there are a large number of important works in a particular language , you may even want to learn the language .
There is n't anything wrong with submitting to a conference that might not be a perfect fit . I would urge you to ensure that the fit is decent enough that you wo n't be wasting anyone 's time , but cross-polination can be great for both fields . When I was a graduate student and was helping my advisor review papers for a prominent conference , I read an outstanding paper that I did n't believe was on-topic for the conference , and I suggested to my advisor that it should be rejected it even though it had a novel ( and cool ) contribution . When I discussed it with her , she said that for really excellent papers , program committees will sometimes be flexible . If I was convinced it was that good , she said , I should give it a positive review and let the committee sort it out . In the end they accepted the paper . It was very well-received at the conference , and the authors were excited to get the paper into the competitive conference , where it would undoubtedly be seen by a lot of people .
This depends heavily on the level of the thesis ( Masters , Ph.D ) and the educational system in which the institute issueing the degree sits . Typically , at Master 's level you need to demonstrate familiarity and competence in the execution of research . Ie , you need to show that you can understand and implement methods . However , the results may be unoriginal . For a Ph.D , you need to do original research . This means that an original result needs to be published in the thesis . However , the interpretation of original may take many forms . As you note , it 's almost impossible to publish an entirely new form of knowledge .
It appears that in the UK , they must state on the application form that they are exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 , if they are ; if they are exempt , you have to declare the conviction , and otherwise you do n't . The probability that a PhD position would be exempt is low . <URL> provides extensive discussion of " spent " convictions under Irish law , indicating that if asked , you must tell ( Ireland appears to be the only member of the EU without some analog of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act ) .
Disclaimer : This answer may or may not be different in Japan , due to cultural differences . If my answer disagrees with one with experience in Japanese academia , I 'd go with their answer . It may even be different between different labs and fields . But this is based on my experience and also on what I 've seen since in other labs I 've worked in . I was in Australia on a summer internship and I reached out to an academic at a local university who worked in my field of interest , after reading a few of his papers and checking out his website . I informed him that I was an interested potential PhD applicant who was about to enter their final year of undergrad , and I asked him if he 'd have some time available to chat with me in his lab . I attached my CV to the email and wrote a very brief paragraph with my history ( a few sentences ; do n't give them a huge thing to read ) . He replied immediately , very interested , and we scheduled an appointment for some days later . We ended up talking for a few hours and he took me around the lab , and introduced me to everyone . I was 100 % into doing a PhD with them -- it did n't work out for logistical reasons , but this is unrelated . An undergrad taking the interest and initiative to read papers , check out the research , and reach out to potential PIs is considered a very good thing . It means that you are taking the PhD / Masters as the serious and professional endeavour that it is . Especially when the undertaking involves moving to a foreign country , it implies that you are considering not only whether you are a fit in the lab , but also how living in the country could impact you . It 's always considered a good idea to reach out to your potential advisers in some way , and not everyone does this -- many advisers get blind applications . If you meet them , it gives you both a chance to see if you 'd be a good fit -- academically and personally . Both of these matter . If you do n't get along , working with them could be a nightmare ! And that goes both ways . That means that when the PI is looking at the pile of applications at their desk and designating their interest , they have something to look back on . It 's definitely something that will make you stand out . Enthusiasm is great . Of course , admission is n't decided by the PI themselves much of the time , but by an admissions committee ( not sure about Japan but this is usually the case in NA and EU ) . Especially so when you are applying for a scholarship . But an established relationship with the PI is certainly helpful and it indicates seriousness on your part . Finally : What 's the worst thing that could happen ? If you 're already going to be in the country , the worst thing is that they could say no , and you still get a nice holiday . Just do n't send many follow-up emails if they do n't reply . So personally , I 'd encourage you to reach out to potential PIs and ask , politely , if they might have the time to briefly meet with you to discuss their research and your research interests . But definitely either ask somebody who has been in Japan , or google social norms and etiquette since that is very important everywhere , but especially in Japanese culture .
It depends on whether the student on the F1 visa is already working 20 hours / week , which is likely to happen if he is an RA or a full-time TA ( typically grad TA ) , but unlikely if he is on a fellowship or pays the tuition fees himself . If the student is already working 20 hours / week , then he is not allowed to work , either it is on-campus or off-campus . Given the amount of experiments or other small jobs I see paid either in cash , Amazon gift cards ( sorry RMS ) , ice creams , and other kinds of compensations , the immigration law forbidding F1 visa holder from working more than 20 hours per week is broken every day . I am impressed so few people seem to care about this situation , given that violating the 20-hours-per-week rule can be a cause of visa termination and other troubles ( e.g. green card obtention ) . ( I need to check for volunteering work , but to me that 's work too . Any idea ? ) <URL> The only exception is if the Secretary of DHS suspends this requirement , by means of a Federal Register notice , due to emergent circumstances . The student must demonstrate to you that the extra work is necessary because the emergent circumstance has affected his or her source of support . Endorse the student 's Form I-20 with a reference to the Federal Register notice that announced the emergency exception before allowing the student to work more than 20 hours a week .
Although I do n't want to say what you should or should not write , this is my suggestion . There is a difference between a Masters by Coursework and Masters by Research , as in the latter you most likely will be asked to provide a new contribution to science , while for the former you will most likely ' simply ' extend your knowledge through subjects . Knowing it 's an application for Masters by Research , I suggest reading up on the research you 're interested in , mention why you 're interested in it and how you can contribute to that field . I think the reviewers are more interested in your enthusiasm and how you can contribute . Mentioning that you 're willing to take credits is a sign that you 're afraid of not knowing enough , and could be a sign for reviewers that you 're not confident . On the other hand , it does show that you know your limitations - but when you decide to mention it , do n't make it the main item of your letter . In the research field however the learning does not always happen through subjects , it most often occurs through literature review . Although subjects are very beneficial if exactly in the area of research , I think that it 's sufficient to demonstrate that you are capable of working in the field of study .
In this case I would opt to cite <URL> . Citing OpenCV as a whole is more appropriate than referring to a specific function , e.g. " we obtained our results using OpenCV [ Bradski00 ] " . Since you use OpenCV , you should also cite the related paper . I would only refer to a specific function in a software package if it does not implement a known algorithm and therefore requires special attention .
The fact that you have done your degree either part or full time will not change your degree 's value . I have never heard of part-time degrees being treated differently from full-time degrees . In fact , it would be unusual to list a part-time or full time status on your CV so it 's not clear how people would know . And I doubt many people would react differently . Your decision to do a degree part-time or full-time has other important implications on your long term goals but they are indirect . If you want to go into industry , choosing a part-time degree might mean you have more time to build up industry experience which might be nice . If you want to go into academia -- and you can afford to go to school full time -- do the full time degree because work in industry will only slow you down from the pursuit of your long term goal . Being a part-time student might also mean less attention from faculty who might think you are less serious about an academic track while you are doing the degree .
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
This varies by program . In the US , in mathematics , " par " for a master 's is 2 years . In some PhD programs , this will cut a year off your time-to-degree . In others , no help at all . In rare cases , it will cut two years off .
In my opinion , it is perfectly fine if you want to put so many original pictures in your thesis and if you are writing a thesis in natural science , you can even put some pictures from other papers/books in your introduction chapter . Just try to imagine you are a thesis reader ( a professor ) with so many other things to do . They would like to read less text and see more comprehensive figures . Of course , making a figure comprehensive depends on the quality of your graphics as well as your caption text . So here 's what I suggest : anytime you want to put a figure in your text , ask yourself : how this figure is going to help my readers understand the main point ? Is it conveying the main message ? And how the captions will help to understand this message ? Remember , other people also have limited time and sometimes limited interest in what you did or even the task of evaluating the thesis , so it is up to you to make your material concisely so that they can understand about your intentions easily .
end question
start question
Are faculty applicants hired at a level based on their current position ?
Details may vary but in essence the following applies ( assuming it is a research/teaching university ) : Scientific publications . The list is judged on quality , usually determined by h-index , number of citations and publications per year in some combination . Funding . The ability of the applicant to attract funds . Academic experience . This could be anything from teaching through administrative tasks , within a university or in international circles . the latter may be important since the person brings in a network of contacts . Clearly , it is possible that a department may look for a younger promising scientists to build a new environment and many positions may be strategic to expand a department or to strengthen it uncertain ways . Hence the current position may have very little influence on the appointment . It all boils down to what the department is looking for . Whether it is possible to employ a full professor as assistant or vice versa , is difficult to answer . generally , yes , but the meaning of full , associate , assistant professor varies and does not exist everywhere . So the picture is more complex here and I believe the search criteria is what is looked at . I can imagine , that being full professor may be a disadvantage if the position is looking for someone to be assistant but then it is up to the applicant to accept ( or not ) the conditions .
I agree that using simple publication or citation counts is prone to a range of problems . One important class of such biases relates to differential levels of involvement of an author . In terms of some basic corrections for this , there are ways that individual papers are evaluated to assess relative contribution . In some fields being first author ( and to a lesser extent , subsequent positions ) suggests a greater level of involvement in a given paper . In a few cases , proportion of contribution is explicitly stated . In some contexts , some form of proportional analysis is performed such that if you are one author among two , then the paper is weighted more than one author among ten ( I 've seen this in some university workload models ) . However , generally , when evaluating the publication achievements of a researchers , a more holistic approach can be taken . An overall program of research will be evaluated in order to assess a sustained contribution . To some extent , over time researchers would be expected to play a range of roles from lead to secondary contributor . Therefore , often an overall sum of papers may balance out such varying levels of contributions . In particular , if you have a reasonable balance of first author papers and the number of authors per paper is similar to other researchers in your field , this may reinforce such a perspective .
There may be some confusion here about the difference between 9 and 12 month appointments vs. arranging to have the salary for a 9 month appointment paid out over 12 months . In the U.S. , the typical faculty appointment is a 9 month appointment . Under this arrangement , a faculty member is required to be present on campus and teaching ( and doing research and service ) from September through May . They typically do not have formal vacation or sick leave but in practice can stay home ( and cancel classes ) if sick . They can also go on personal travel when classes are not in session . Faculty do n't have to formally request time off as long as they attend to their responsibilities . In this system faculty do not have to work over the summers , although many faculty do teach summer school or work on research grants and earn additional salary over the summer . Faculty will also often work on unfunded research projects over the summer . Many faculty with 9 month appointments choose to have their annual salary paid out over 12 months . This does n't create any obligation to work over the summer and has no significant tax consequences , but it is more convenient for household budgeting since summer salary can be quite variable and unpredictable from year to year . For example , I just learned today that I will be able to earn a month of summer salary teaching a course that starts on June 8 . I 'm still waiting to hear if some research funding for this summer will come through . I 've designed my personal budget so that I 'm not dependent on summer salary , so I have my 9 month salary paid out over 12 months . 12 month appointments are quite common for academic administrators and some full time researchers . These typically do accrue sick leave and paid vacation , which has some advantages but also has some disadvantages such as having to explicitly request time off .
Assuming that you submitted your application to the human resources office of the university , then it would be appropriate to check with them to make sure that the application was received and was considered to be complete . I would not send a query to faculty members of the search committee ( if you could even figure out which faculty were on the search committee . )
In this particular case Author of the framework you your advisor but that is strongly dependent on your local and institutions ' customs and practices . Ask your advisor informally . When still in doubt , always add yourself second to the first draft . If appropriate , your advisor will suggest moving you to first position , which is a lot less embarrasing than the other way around ( your advisor suggesting you should take your name down a notch )
Since the supervisor got the grant , he is ultimately responsible to the funding agency for the research that was funded and for any results . So the postdoc should definitely talk to the supervisor . Actually , this would be a great opportunity for the supervisor to help the postdoc grow academically , since postdocs are of course expected to take on more responsibilities than Ph.D. students , and start making their own reputation in a field , not stay in the supervisor 's shadow . So the supervisor should certainly understand that the postdoc will start flexing his wings and be interested in other topics - it just needs to be commensurate with the goals that the supervisor got the money for . If , conversely , the postdoc got his own grant , he should first of all look through the paperwork he presumably got , signed and returned before the money started rolling in . It is quite possible that an expectation of the funding agency as to the amount of work the postdoc should be spending on this particular project is already somewhere in the paperwork . Of course , even in this case , it makes a lot of sense to discuss this with the supervisor , who presumably has a lot of experience in this field , and possibly with this particular funding agency .
You should look for faculty working in the field that you are interested in researching , and then pitch your research idea directly to them . Make sure that you do a good job with a preliminary review of the literature for your idea and understand the professor 's specific research interests , so that your letter does not sound like any of the hundreds of mail-merge messages that professors get every week . If your idea is really worthwhile and you do a good targeted job of pitching it , changes are that someone will agree to work with you on it . However , the reality is that most students come into a PhD without a really good sense of existing literature or the feasibility of their ideas . It is for this reason that there is great value in being open-minded about your PhD thesis . Many students make the mistake of thinking that the PhD should be the pinnacle of their career , solving some grand problem in human existence . This might happen for a few figures in history , but , more typically , the PhD is the start of a research career and not the end of it .
The relevant concept here is <URL> which means that a concept has been sufficiently realized to make it believable . Where , exactly , this bar lies depends on which field and which country you are dealing with . The United States , for example , used to have much stronger requirements for working models , but has recently introduced a notion of " preliminary filing " which lets one start the patent process before demonstrating a working model . In some cases , particularly mechanical devices , the device ( <URL> ) might never actually have to be demonstrated in action . In others , such as many types of biological invention , the science is considered so unpredictable that you can not be considered to have reduced the idea to practice unless you have an actual working example . For your particular question of computational material design , I do not know where the boundary of " reduction to practice " currently lies . It is likely to be field-dependent ( e.g. , is this a mechanical macrostructure like a fabric , a simple atomic structure like a new alloy of steel , or a complex organic structure like a protein agglomerate ) , will depend on jurisdiction , and is likely to move again in the future as patent offices slowly come to accept the validity of more classes of models . Thus , the overall answer is " it depends " and " talk to a patent lawyer . "
I suspect that the right people to ask here are the staff at your local embassy . Certificates of good health , particularly in relation to European institutions , are more likely related to immigration requirements than university requirements . That will mean the embassy will be your best source of information about format . ( In fact , there may only be specific doctors authorized to produce such certificates , and you may need to schedule an appointment with one of them , rather than obtain one from your personal primary care physician . )
If you have control over the lab software Have your IT dept install software that will allow you to monitor the activity on each system . I think the term is Classroom management software . Sit back and watch for suspicious activity . Otherwise - adapt I like the strategies discussed in this question about take-home exams ( <URL> ) The TL/DR - think about how you might test learning of the material in a situation where students ARE going to collaborate and ARE going to access materials on the subject . My two cents on the concept of computer based exams it seems to me that this is a better way to evaluate students ' programming skills than a paper-based quiz/exam , given that in the real world , people write code on a computer , not on paper . I do n't agree with this statement , because in the real world people also have access to other supports like references and peers while writing code on a computer . I do n't think writing a coding exam on a computer actually tests knowledge of coding any better than writing code on paper . In fact , in some ways it hampers student performance because they must focus on creating properly formatted , compilable , code instead of getting their knowledge of the concepts on paper . Pseudo code is faster to write and easier to evaluate . If you want to test their ability to write executable code , give them assignments .
See Matier , Michael W. " Recruiting Faculty : Complementary Tales from Two Campuses . " Research in Higher Education 32.1 ( 1991 ) : 31-44 . DOI : <URL> As the abstract says : This paper -- a complement to " Retaining Faculty : A Tale of Two Campuses " ( Matier , 1990 ) -- examines the factors influencing individuals with firm offers to join the faculty at two research universities . Particular attention is paid to the relative weight and importance placed on the tangible , intangible , and non-work-related benefits in the decision-making process . According to this paper : Using the enticement to accept the Wyandot , Manada , and alternative best opportunity values assigned by the participants for each factor , it was possible to determine those most important in the decision-making process . ... Of the ten most important factors at each of the subject institutions , nine were common to both . Of these , eight were intangible benefits : reputation of institution , teaching assignments/opportunities , reputation of department , career advancement opportunities , reputation of associates , congeniality of associates , research opportunities , and rapport with departmental leaders . The remaining common factor was the tangible benefit teaching/research load , ranked number three at Wyandot and number eight at Manada . The uncommon factor ranked in the top ten at Wyandot was the tangible benefit research funding ( ranked number nine ) . At Manada , it was the tangible benefit library facilities ( ranked number seven ) . Another similar study : Teevan , James J. , Susan Pepper , and Joseph R. Pellizzari . " Academic employment decisions and gender . " Research in Higher Education 33.2 ( 1992 ) : 141-160 . DOI : <URL> Its findings include : The most frequently mentioned reason for accepting a position , cited by 50 percent of academics , was the reputation of the department or the university , a factor similarly important to both males and females . The next most frequently mentioned reasons for accepting positions concerned the compatibility of the job with family needs ( cited by 39 % of all respondents ) , positive aspects of the job offer , and personal opportunities ( each mentioned by 36 % of all respondents ) . Among those who declined or resigned from positions , a somewhat different pattern emerged . Dissatisfaction with aspects of the job offer , cited by 47 percent of these respondents , and the incompatibility of the position with family needs , cited by 42 percent , were the most frequently mentioned reasons . Insufficient research support , fewer personal opportunities , and a weaker university or department were mentioned by 26 to 30 percent of these respondents . <URL>
If it 's a blind process , you 're not meant to find out . As various people have pointed out in the comments already , discussing your review with them is therefore a big no . One of the main principles of reviewing by several people is that you get independent opinions , so that if a particular ( maybe well-known and well-respected ) person does n't like the research , they ca n't just make it disappear by convincing everybody else that it 's bad . For some conferences ( and maybe journals ? ) , you are able to discuss your review with the other reviewers after the initial submission . But in this case the facilities for doing this are provided by the submission system . There are two important differences to the situtation you 've described though . First , your initial review will not be influenced by the discussion and second , there is a record of the conversations and changes made .
I 've been putting off answering this because it 's really a legal question , not an academic question , and I 'm a computer scientist . In my one business law course , I learned that the essence of a contract is an offer and an acceptance . We have those . If I were in this boat , I 'd probably suck it up and apply elsewhere . If I really-really wanted to go to the school that first accepted , then rejected me , I 'd consider paying a lawyer a few hundred dollars to call the counsel for the university . My lawyer would say something like , " My client is damaged blah-blah and has cause of action blah-blah . However , we do not want to be unreasonable . All we want you to do is honor the offer you made in writing and later confirmed verbally . Um , and keep these circumstances confidential from anyone who could assign a grade to or otherwise evaluate my client . " There is a huge down side to doing that . It is that the circumstances are quite likely to leak out . Then one is facing professors who know how one was admitted .
Would cheating still be considered unfair if we drop the concept of grading according to a curve ? ( which we should ) Of course ! Let 's assume that without cheating 10 % of students get As . Therefore , students who earned As are a small group . Having an A might help getting funding , or finding an internship or a job . Now let 's say that with cheating , 50 % ( no normalizing ) of students get As , now an A is no longer that valuable because a lot of people have them . Therefore , the value of As that honest students earned has diminished .
The true anonymity of " anonymous evaluations " is a key issue ( in academia and also in the workplace ) . If you say an evaluation is anonymous , can you later take them to task for something they wrote that you regard as problematic ? This happened at my university a few years back . Student course evaluations are done electronically now , and they are said to be anonymous . However , one student " contributed " an anonymous evaluation which criticized their instructor for their sexual orientation . The university IT staff got involved , did in fact trace the evaluation back to the student , and the student was prosecuted for it . In particular , IIRC their name was made public ( I read about this in the university paper ! ) and they may have had to write a letter of apology . This is a good problem for an ethics class : should the university have done this ? After reflecting about it for a while , my feeling is that the university did behave unethically : not by tracking down a comment that violates rules of university conduct ( not to mention the rules and conventions of civilized society about treatment of minority ) , but by not being open with the students that the anonymity in the evaluations was meant as a policy decision , not a factual description of the way the technology is implemented . They could have designed the system so that university IT staff would have no way -- or at least , no standard , built-in way -- of tracking it back to its origin . Anyway : yes , it is probably technically possible that the evaluation can be traced back to you . The moral of the above story is that unless you specifically know and trust the mechanisms that prevent that , you should regard the anonymity as being at the level of policy -- i.e. , you are honorbound not to act on the knowledge of the identity -- rather than a true lack of knowledge of the writer 's identity . As for the rest , you ask : Do you think I will lose my job over it ? Maybe another dumb question , but I 'm stressing right now . That does n't sound like a dumb question for you . However , in my opinion it 's " a dumb question " ( rather , an unfruitful one ) to ask us . We do n't know : Who you are , and what are the conditions of your employment . Where you work , and who your colleagues are . What you wrote . Without this information , our best guess at the answer is nowhere near as good as yours . I understand that because of your closeness to the situation and reasonable anxiety , it may be hard for you to view objectively . I suggest that you confide in someone you can trust and who is closer to the situation . @Trevor Wilson asked : Was it this case : nytimes.com/2008/01/20/magazine/20wwln-ethicist-t.html ? If so , it sounds like the evaluation was handwritten . Nice find ! I checked it out a bit , and ... I think it is likely that this is the same case , and that it was long enough ago ( longer than I thought ) that I am not quite remembering the particulars . It is also interesting that this made " Ask an Ethicist " ... and the Ethicist said very much what I said above . Adding to the irony , I suppose I am now criticizing my university a bit by weighing in on this . I think they can take it .
First of all , you need to make it exceedingly easy for the Luddites to put their material online . If it is hard to do , or if it takes a particular skill other than " go to this website and click a few links " than you 're going to have a hard time ever convincing them to get onboard . If they absolutely need to be trained , you may have to have a mandatory training session where they get their first set of lectures or whatever online ( but do n't expect any other forthcoming material to be posted without more prodding -- then again , they may see the light if it is easy enough and they can see the results online ) . I 'd suggest one or more of the following four suggestions , in order of preference : Ask for student volunteers to help these faculty put their material online . Whether these are TAs for the class , or paid/hired students not already assigned , or strictly volunteers is up to you and budgeting concerns . You may have to continue this process for subsequent classes if the faculty are n't willing to learn how to do it themselves . Automate the system ( which goes back to my original comment ) . If paper is involved , have someone set up a scanner to handle loose-leaf material , or via a photocopier/scanner . If it is just soft-copy document uploading , this can be automated with a drop box on a shared drive -- just drag materials into the box and it ends up online . This wo n't make for a particularly organized system , but at least the material will be online . Wait them out and let attrition work its magic . You may always have reluctant faculty , but as older Luddites retire you should find this less of a problem . If there are only a few faculty that do n't want to come onboard , this is definitely the easiest method , and you 're really not losing too much by waiting . Make posting the material mandatory . I can almost guarantee this wo n't be possible for tenured faculty , but maybe you can provide some incentive rather than simply encouraging them to put the material online . I do n't think you 'll get very far with a simple plea for coming into the 21st Century -- if they are refusing to adopt , they probably feel they are too busy , or do n't like the whole idea of it .
Details may vary but in essence the following applies ( assuming it is a research/teaching university ) : Scientific publications . The list is judged on quality , usually determined by h-index , number of citations and publications per year in some combination . Funding . The ability of the applicant to attract funds . Academic experience . This could be anything from teaching through administrative tasks , within a university or in international circles . the latter may be important since the person brings in a network of contacts . Clearly , it is possible that a department may look for a younger promising scientists to build a new environment and many positions may be strategic to expand a department or to strengthen it uncertain ways . Hence the current position may have very little influence on the appointment . It all boils down to what the department is looking for . Whether it is possible to employ a full professor as assistant or vice versa , is difficult to answer . generally , yes , but the meaning of full , associate , assistant professor varies and does not exist everywhere . So the picture is more complex here and I believe the search criteria is what is looked at . I can imagine , that being full professor may be a disadvantage if the position is looking for someone to be assistant but then it is up to the applicant to accept ( or not ) the conditions .
The United Nations University does not really work as a normal university , but rather as a research center . The difference is that they recruit students from developing countries as for a period that can go from several months to a year , in order to make them work on concrete research projects , so that they can gain experience ( which can help them to apply for a Master of PhD program somewhere else ) . For instance , this a <URL> for students at the UNU-IIST ( International Institute for Software Technology ) . Note that the UNU-IIST also plan to offer a joint <URL> with the University of Pisa . Note also that it seems that each institute of the UNU is to some extent independent , so maybe other institutes provide more academic programs . So , to answer your questions , technically speaking there are students at the UNU ( when I was working at the UNU-IIST , there were something between 10 and 20 students ) , but they are not " enrolled " by the UNU , it 's more like some kind of internship .
Universities offer all sort of " benefits " to its employees . Some of these " benefits " do not have a monetary value ( e.g. , flexible work schedule ) . The benefits available to faculty are often different from the cleaning staff . Further there are differences in benefits between tenured/tenure track and adjunct faculty . I can only think of three benefits , that have a monetary value , for which there are differences between tenure track and tenured faculty Sabbatical : Some universities do not permit pretenure sabbaticals . It is often hard to differentiate if sabbatical eligibility is tied to tenure or time in service . <URL> provides different sabbatical benefits pre and post tenure . Housing Assistance : Some universities provide housing assistance ( discounted homes , mortgage assistance , loans , etc ) . Portions of the <URL> requires tenure . Parking : Some universities provide parking passes . <URL> provides reserved spaces for tenured faculty while other faculty and staff simply get a parking pass . In terms of perks that do not have a monetary value , this varies widely by department . Tenured faculty often get to be chair of the department ( which may or may not be a perk ) . Departments may also give tenured faculty priority in terms of teaching schedule , departmental and university service requirements , office space , and lab space . The sabbatical system , internal funding , and administrative support may be skewed in their favor also .
Look at all the application rules and guidelines . Unless the registration/application is specifically described as first-come first-served ( which would be unusual ) , the date of submission does n't matter as long as the submission is complete before the deadline .
end question
start question
A professor has only proofread my paper . Should I include him as author ?
I would thank him in the acknowledgments . Although there is no set standard for what is required to be an author , it is generally accepted that they must make a research contribution . Proofreading definitely does n't meet that criterion ( or any of the other criteria that I have seen ) . I did this in one of my recent papers . I just said : We would also like to thank Bob Bob for his helpful feedback on a draft of the paper .
Based on my experience , attending in conferences as the volunteers often makes you perform some pre-defined tasks , based on the considered role for you , tightly . As an instance , you might be recruited at the reception desk of the conference and most of your time will be dedicated to the registration-based stuffs and the related matters . Or seemingly , you would be engaged with the support team to make the conference atmosphere more convenient for the participants . So , you might conclude that most of your time would be dedicated to performing the tasks , as well as possible . But as most of the tasks might no fill all of your time at the conference , a good plan could be attending at the conference presentation sessions or conference lectures , are which within the scope of your interest . Of course , based on your chance and smartness , you may be able to grab some special opportunities . Here is my own experience : Once , I was at the service of the escort team at a conference and was responsible for accompanying the guest lectures of the conference to the hotels and conference hall , back and forth . Within the 3-day period of the conference , I did succeed to talk with one of the big GURUs of the control systems on the planet and culminated my raw ideas by his deserving assessments . So , just open your eyes and be on the edge of your seat to grab every sparkling opportunity . Good luck
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
Personally , I am in favour of adding them as references in the bibliography section . With that said , I am from a CS subfield that is very close to the " real world " in a way that related work is almost always a motley mixture of peer-reviewed publications , books , newspaper articles , technical standard documents ( such as those by W3C ) , and actual innovative software or websites ( whose concepts were never formally published in a scientific venue ) , i.e. sources with a continuously varying degree of reliability . Consequently , trying to find a well-defined rule about what to add as a footnote and what to add as a bibliography reference is certain to give you headaches ( and uncertain to lead to a useful and consistent result ) . However , I can see a few ( maybe a bit subjective ) general advantages of using bibliography items rather than footnotes for links ( in no particular order ) : Bibliography items tend to more or less have a fixed format . Frequently , meta-information such as year of publication or author can be provided for web resources just as it can for anything else . When using a footnote , authors may be tempted to just provide the link and skip the meta-information that would be naturally included in a bibliography item , thereby foregoing both any due attribution and any information required to possibly locate the resource again , should the link die . I have seen styleguides that generally forbid the use of footnotes ( e.g. <URL> ) , but I have yet to see a styleguide that generally forbids the use of a bibliography . By not using any footnotes , your manuscript is one step closer to being agnostic of the final formatting used ( and thus matches with the ideal of separating content from layout ) . If the same web resource is mentioned twice throughout your document , there is absolutely no problem if the link is provided in a bibliography item , which is simply referenced twice in your text , if appropriate ( e.g. if the two mentions are sufficiently far apart ) . If the link is in a footnote , on the other hand , things are not so clear : The footnote can be added several times in the document . However , this means a waste of space , and it may also confuse readers who expect some new information when reading a new footnote for the first time , or who might wonder whether they are looking at a copy-and-paste error where a previously unmentioned link should be provided . Personally , I consider this " solution " downright bad style . The same footnote can be pointed to several times . While this may be slightly cumbersome in some typesetting software , it is definitely feasible . However , it significantly increases the effort for finding the footnote ( it might be on any page in the document ) , and the need to switch to another page than the one the reader is currently on kind of defeats the purpose of footnotes , anyway . As a reader , I find keeping track of references , figure numbers , and table numbers that I still want to look into after finishing or while reading the current paragraph or section hard enough . There is no reason to add yet another independent list for footnote numbers . Also as a reader , I have a certain expectation what amount of information I will find when following a pointer to additional information . For bibliography references , it is clear that the pointer points to an entire external document . For footnotes , I conversely prefer it to be clear that the pointer points to no more than one or two sentences worth of additional information ( for which I do not need to search for and/or open another document ) .
It depends on the field , and in particular on the venue in which you are publishing . It 's possible that some journals and conferences might have policies about this , which would of course override anything you read here . But in general : nobody checks ( or cares ) whether the name you put on a published paper matches your official name . So if you use an informal variant of your name , e.g. if your name is " Stephen " but you publish as " Steve " , nobody will bat an eyelid . If you use a nickname or publish under a pseudonym , it would be a little odd if the nickname is something that sounds very informal , but still , it probably wo n't cause problems . What people do care about is building a record of your work , and putting a face to the name if they know your face . So you should ( 1 ) be consistent with the name you use to publish , and ( 2 ) make sure other people in the field know that it refers to you .
I would say it depends . In the following <URL> , JeffE resoundingly stated that age does not play into the decision whether to appoint somebody for an academic position . Yet , ETH Zurich ( one of the world 's premiere institutions in the technical sciences ) even <URL> ( see the information box on the right ) . Pragmatically , you may be a bit out of the norm . This may give you a small edge in some cases , and may be a small disadvantage in others . For every academic that is concerned about your age , there will be another one that values your industrial experience . I would say , if age is the only thing holding you back , then go and apply for assistant professor positions . Leaving a job in a research lab to start as an associate professor would in a way seem like a starting all over again . Assistant professor is n't the same as associate professor . Both are not the same as " starting all over " . In practice , in most places I have seen , professors on all levels are able to work quite independently , so none should be seen as an entry-level job . Assistant professor may be entry-level in terms of professorships , but it is actually a quite senior position in the wider context of academia .
Ignoring the journal in question is probably an overreaction . However , the best route to take is the first one -- the author of the copyrighted material is the one that has the most responsibility to assert her rights . Your duty is to notify the person whose work has been infringed upon that the violation has taken place . Once you 've done that , you 've achieved what 's ethically required of you . You are not obligated to take the matter up directly with the journal . ( However , you may do so if you so choose . )
In the modern day of vastly intelligent computer software and important internet presence , it is highly unlikely that a missing middle initial will be the cause of " nonrecognition " of your name . As Stephan wrote , a bigger problem is name confusion ; it is definitely a good idea for you to start including your middle initial ( s ) in future publications . I 'll answer here focused more on how to make sure the names are " linked " . <URL> , which is compiled entirely by a computer ( my only contribution there was identification of duplicate entries and removing them ) , even picked up some of my undergraduate term-reports which I put on my website many years ago ( and which are now no longer available ) . Of my published papers , I 've listed at various times my name as Willie Wong W W Wong Willie W Wong Willie W-Y Wong and I do n't seem to have had much trouble * . If you want better control over the articles associated to your name , you can always register for <URL> and/or an <URL> which are both designed to help alleviate the problem of name collision and name changes throughout the career of a research scientist . For fields which encourages the use of arXiv , the <URL> also helps group all of your pre-prints , and allows you neat things like <URL> showing your recent pre-prints . For mathematics , the AMS maintains <URL> ( they recently upgraded this ! ) to which you can also submit corrections to include omitted paper or to exclude misattributed papers by other authors . ( The AMS author profiles are only accessible through a MathSciNet subscription . ) I am not that familiar with other fields , but you should look around to see if your scholarly society provides a similar service to help maintain a comprehensive publication record for authors . * With Google , at least . Microsoft Academic Search has some trouble coming up with my complete list of publications .
Mexican here !! We also have two surnames , and to be perfectly honest we do not mind if you use both or only one of our last names . People call me Dr Palafox and my former advisor ( Who is the head of the CS department ) Dr Benitez . We are talking people from all the spectrum of workers , from administrative and cleaning staff to general directors . So is perfectly fine to use only one last name . Actually is going to sound weird if you end up using both names , because we rarely do . Even the President is rarely called by his 2 last names , unless is a very specific situation .
To a first-order , you should say what is actually true . If you enrolled into a Master 's program and that 's the program you are in now , you should not try to indicate you are really a PhD student . Past that , though , how exactly you state something which is otherwise true - how specific versus how vague , for instance - is a reflection of what you are using your resume or CV to actually do . If you are applying for an employment position , you should understand there is no such thing as a singular " resume/CV " - but a variety of versions which are all true , but emphasize different things and are more/less clear about some things , depending on the desired position . You are trying to tell useful story , and what 's useful to someone hiring a staff researcher vs. an entry-level technician can be very different things . Sometimes you 'll want to be specific , such as when your education is a very specific and useful fit for the position , where 'd you 'd say something like , " I earned my Masters 's in Basket Weaving and am currently working on my PhD in the sub-field of Applied Stained Wicker Fabrication Techniques . " In a job where the details are n't so relevant , to save space you might just say " I 'm a graduate student in commercial art . " But to reiterate , the reality of your program at your school is important to what you say . If your program has 2 years of coursework that is like a Master 's program , but they have not explicitly granted you a Master 's degree ( you could not ask them for a physical copy of it because they have n't granted you one ) , then do not imply or say you have a Master 's degree . If your program is for a Master 's degree and then they technically choose or allow students to continue on to a PhD program , do n't just say you are in a PhD program if you are n't . Other than for general reasons of honesty , you 'd be one question away from needing to say something like , " well , technically ... " and then you 'll have to back-track and look like you could just be making up everything you 've said .
I have to disagree slightly with the stark " No " answers . Only when those details provide evidence of your potential for research . Some information about your high-school experience may shed light on your research potential . Certainly you would want to mention winning the <URL> or the <URL> , or describe the peer-reviewed research papers you published as a high school student . But your high school grades ? No , leave them off .
Yes , it will make it harder to get a job as a professor of computer science . A distance learning PhD is not well suited for learning certain skills that one would learn in a traditional PhD , as described in more detail at <URL> . Some of these skills are important for getting a job as a professor and/or doing the job of a professor . For example , you would not get any teaching experience in a distance learning course , and most faculty applicants are expected to have at least some teaching experience . Furthermore , by doing a PhD by distance learning , you miss out on a lot of the networking and exposure to other academics that happens in a good computer science PhD program . This plays a major role in getting a faculty job afterwards . The exception to this is if you were to get a job where the PhD is necessary only as a formality . For example , if you are already so well known in your field that every university wants to hire you , but ca n't because their HR departments insist that faculty candidates must have a PhD , then a distance learning PhD might be sufficient .
I agree with all of @Nate Eldredge 's comments . If you have a good relationship with your advisor , you should be able to say " This paper lies outside of my field of expertise . I do n't feel qualified to review it ; in fact , even to understand it at a basic level would require me to spend substantial time familiarizing myself with the terminology of a different academic field . " According to your comments , you do not feel comfortable saying this to your advisor . So here is what I would suggest instead : do the reviewing together with your advisor , in person . So for instance you could begin by saying " I started reading the paper you assigned me , and I have some questions I 'd like to discuss with you . When can we meet to talk about it ? " Then when you meet you can begin to engage with all the unfamiliar stuff and see for yourself how far away it really is from your interests and those of your advisor . If it turns out that your advisor does n't understand the paper either , I would try to subtly lead him to the conclusion that neither of you should be reviewing it . If he tries to shove it onto you , reiterate that you are doing it but that you want to get his input . If necessary , ask a question of the form " How would you handle this review job if you were in my place ? " The point being that the advisor is in your place since he is the one who has been asked to do the reviewing . To pull this off properly may require some verbal aikido . The worst case scenario is that after all this your advisor makes clear to you that he does n't care that neither of your have the expertise to review this paper ; he wants you to do it anyway . At that point he is asking you to commit academic dishonesty , and you will be in a tough spot : you will have to decide whether turning in a noncommittal review of a paper that you do n't understand is the least evil .
Human cognition is a strange thing , and I wo n't pretend I know it well enough to give you a guide , but I will suggest that you simply consider your audience and how you want them to move through the information . A dense , heavy talk with few breaks will tire most audiences . A light talk that does n't require much thought will result in many people letting their mind wander . A talk which carefully weaves the " story " with a variety of dense to light moments , may actually improve retention . Adding levity in the form of a joke or humor , if the joke is very relevant to the talk , can actually increase retention , as long as it is n't too much of a distraction . Placing it appropriately is key , though , and I would n't do it at the end , because that 's what people will remember . The last few sentences should be a quick summary of the talk and should be memorable . Placing it in the middle , during a transition - for instance between the problem statement and the methodology - could be good , and allow a release of tension if the problem statement was pretty densely packed . Starting off with it , as an into to the topic and a method to get attention is also a pretty good choice . In all things , though , consider your audience first . What is the journey you are taking them on , and when would be an appropriate point for a rest break , a transition , a wake-up , etc. .
No , you should not , but there is of course no law that prevents it . Peer review is a process where the editor appoints reviewers because of their expertise to provide independent and knowledgeable views on the submitted manuscript . As such the reviews should pass through the editor since they are not only made to improve the manuscript from the point of the author but also prepare it to be worthy of publication in the journal to which it is submitted . Making such contact is thus breaking an understanding with the editor/journal and integrity of the journal review system and quality assurance . The correspondence needs to go through the editor .
The reasons I write all my work in English , regardless of the country in which I work , are threefold : The scientific community works in English English texts are easier to reuse English texts are easier to share and diffuse Reasons 2 and 3 are effectively based on premise number 1 . In terms of the ability to reuse my work , more often than never I might have to give a presentation , a talk or create a poster based on some report/thesis/paper I previously wrote . This scenario is common to both academia and industry . When this happens I can easily extract sentences , keywords and figures from my previous work if all the text contained in them is in English , without the need to translate it . Similarly a document written in English can be given to anyone and they 'll be able to read and understand it without requiring a translation . Therefore if I were you I would write the thesis in English , and present it also in English . I do n't think that your examiners will feel in any way threatened by this . Ever more so if you are a foreign student and Italian is not your native language . You should not be expected or forced to write and/or present in a language you are not that familiar with , if English is an allowed option .
Short answer It varies . Ask your advisor ! According to my advisor ( Social Sciences , using APA style manual ) , ' the author ' is always correct , and the use of ' I ' hurts the eyes and the sensibilities ! Although many style guides now permit the use of ' I ' , especially for a single-author paper , you will find that many academics have been taught to avoid ' I ' . They may express strong dislike for the use of ' I ' , and your work may subtly and unconsciously be considered ' less good ' because of your pronoun use . ' The author ' is always considered correct . The bigger problem is probably learning how to write fluidly and concisely with this construction . Vary your sentence structure , and absolutely do NOT begin every other sentence with ' the author found/did/decided ' !
You do n't first co-author a paper , you first collaborate on a research effort . Then , if said research effort leads to interesting results , you co-author a paper . So you need to look for someone doing interesting research that you think you can contribute to . Talk to professors in your department and ask about the research they and their students are doing . Of course , since co-authoring a paper is important to you , when you find the opportunity to be part of a research project you should ask the professor : " Do you think this is likely to lead to a paper before I graduate ? " Nobody can promise you a paper ( even if you do everything right , the nature of research is that we do n't know everything in advance ) . But he/she will probably have some intuition about it . You should also ask what you specifically need to do to merit co-authorship credit on the paper that comes out of the research .
In a CV you try to organize your important personal information in a clear and useful way for others to see and gain a good perspective . In this case you have a thesis . It should clearly be listed so that it is clear it is one of the outcomes of your degree . It is commonplace for people to turn a thesis into papers but that usually involves rewriting the material substantially . Such papers will be listed under headings such as , for example , " Peer-reviewed articles " , " Conference contributions " , " Abstracts " , etc. . In your case you could add your article under a heading such as " Conference contributions " , Non-reviewed articles " or " Other articles " ( the later only makes sense if you have a heading " Peer-reviewed articles " ) and make sure it is clear that the heading also implies the articles are not peer reviewed . If your article and your thesis is , in fact practically the same text with the same title , it would not be advisable to follow the guidelines outlined above . the reason is that it may seem to a reader of the CV as if you are trying to inflate your publication record . In that case you could perhaps make a note in the CV in conjunction with the thesis that it has also been published under the same name or to add it under a different heading but stating that the paper is the same as the thesis , thereby taking the possible edge of the double appearance . In the end it is clearly not a problem to publish thesis material after a degree and still count both the thesis and the resulting article but the basic rule is that a specific text should not be counted twice . It would then essentially count as self-plagiarism . So just act responsibly and be open and honest about issues that can cause confusion or raise eye-brows .
A poster of which you 're not the first author is such a minor thing I would n't worry about it ( even if it is listed on the conference website ) . I do n't have a huge publication list but still only include posters I presented ( aand only at major conferences ) . They do n't have anything like the CV impact of a peer-reviewed paper . Either : You were accidentally omitted and should be included . In this case the author should contact the conference organisers ( but it 's probably too late ) . Or your contribution was rather minor -- perhaps it only became apparent that your work made it onto the poster at all at the last minute . In this case while you 're named as an author it 's closer to an acknowledgement in practice . Listing it as a publication , if the title can be searched for but you 're not named , does n't seem like a good idea . Realistically no one is ever going to look . But if you just happen to come up against someone who 's interested in something very specific about the poster that you do n't normally do , it is n't going to help you .
end question
start question
What should I do if I submitted an article to a predatory journal ?
If the paper has not yet been accepted for publication , you are free to withdraw the paper from consideration . Depending on the policies of the journal to which you submit the article , you may need to disclose the prior submission , and explain why you withdrew the publication from consideration . Unfortunately , there 's little you can do to stop the publishers of the first journal from doing something unsavory with your article . You will need to exercise vigilance in monitoring the work in this area to ensure that the paper is n't mishandled or worse . Be sure to maintain records of all of the correspondence you have had with the journal -- and make sure of all it is documentable -- phone calls wo n't suffice here . However , if all the journal has is a PDF of your original article , it makes it a lot harder to do anything with it : it is tedious work to convert it into the template that most publishers use without significant effort . Thus , without the original graphics and text files , it will be difficult for them to " transmit " the paper elsewhere .
As so often , this may be field-specific , so I 'm giving a CS perspective : Posters are not full papers . Often , it is totally acceptable that a poster presents work in progress , or preliminary results . While a paper adds some vague hints to separate future steps in continuing the research after presenting a finished contribution , on a poster , that can well be the other way round . Therefore : Use the opportunity to show what you have done so far and where you want to go from there on your poster . Reconsider what the gist of the poster is - you may have to give up the plan that the poster is about your results , and switch the focus of your poster to talking about your research process . That way , you can present the goal of your poster to collect comments and suggestions on how to retrieve some meaningful results in the direction you 're interested in . Like this , you are not presenting just so you can present , you are presenting because it is the best way to get concrete comments by other researchers . Of course , it depends on what exactly you have written in your poster abstract . If you explicitly said there that the poster will focus on results , the situation may be more problematic .
First of all , see if the book has a newer edition , and try to look at a copy and see if it corrects the error . If not , then try to find : The publisher 's web page for the book The author 's professional web page , which hopefully has some mention of the book . An unofficial errata list ( google the book 's title and " errata " or " corrections " ) . Check in both places for an errata list , which may already have a correction of the error . If not , then it is worth trying to report it . Writing the email is the easy part : just politely point out that you believe there is an error on page NNN , and explain as completely as possible why you believe it is incorrect . If you think you know how it could be corrected , you could explain that as well , but it is n't strictly necessary . The hard part is figuring out where to send it ; publishers and authors should make this obvious , but often they do not . For a major established textbook ( which I assume this is ) , I would focus on the publisher , since the original author may well not be actively involved with the book anymore . See if there is any contact or feedback information on the book 's web page . If you are a faculty member , the publisher probably has assigned a representative for your institution . You may get a better response by contacting your rep directly and asking them to forward your report to the appropriate person . If you are a student and this is your course text , you could ask your professor to contact the publisher 's rep. If there is an unofficial errata list , it should include contact information for the person who 's maintaining it ; send a report to them . For a text or monograph with a smaller audience , you will probably do better to contact the author directly ; look for contact info on their professional web page . It 's a good service to the community to report errors in books so they can eventually be fixed , so thanks for doing this . However , if the publisher/author make it a huge pain to do so , that is ultimately their problem . Make a reasonable effort to report it to an appropriate person , but if you do n't succeed , there 's no need for heroic efforts .
Contact the editor you worked with and let them know . They will advise you of your options and hopefully work with you to update the online version and ( if possible ) either delay or fix the print version .
It depends how well-known and wide-spread the result is . If by now it is a very well-known result and the publication already happened quite some time ago , it may not be necessary to quote the original paper . In doubt I 'd quote the article and the books , or at least one of the books . A possible formulation could be : The result below is due to Paul [ reference to article ] ; we recall it in the form given in a monograph by Miller [ reference to book ] . I do not think it is necessary to have read the original paper to be entitled to write this . If it is not too much work to track it down , it could still make sense to at least take a peek at the article you quote .
I varies with fields and journals . Some journals do allows posting preprints on one 's webpage , or on a preprint server . Some not , but they do n't care . ( And some academicians do put their papers on their websites , even if it is against rules . ) Some do n't allow and do care , so putting the preprint on your webpage may disqualify you from publishing this work . ( If it fits your discipline , why not using <URL> ? )
This seems like a strange situation , since it is very counterproductive for both you and your supervisor . If this is indeed common in your group , I am sure several ideas have been scooped by the time they finally get submitted . Unfortunately , I really do n't have any decent idea why your supervisor would act this way . The most important thing to do is to talk to your supervisor and do n't let him/her dismiss the issue . This may seem like an aggressive approach , but you can disguise it as a learning experience , e.g. " Please tell me what is wrong with the current manuscript because I believe it is ready for submission , oh wise one " . Whatever you do , remain polite . A few approaches you can try ( all of which are reasonable , so do n't be shy ) : Send reminders and send them often . Ask what you can do to improve the manuscript . If your supervisor has no further suggestions to change the manuscript , ask where you can submit it to directly . Do n't wait for him/her to wake up . This approach may lead to your supervisor turning it into a ping-pong match , asking you to make trivial but time-consuming extensions again and again . In this case , confront your supervisor and explain your perspective . If you can find an appropriate call for papers , ask permission to send the manuscript there . Calls typically have deadlines and are not necessarily a downgrade in terms of venue quality . This includes conferences and journal special issues . Having a hard deadline might help .
This could be a big deal and something you should report and , alternatively , it might not be a big deal or reportable . The difference comes in the context . Are the editted images presented as legitimate data or results that are the raw output of the experiments/research ? By which do they say something like " In image blah taken by an electron microscope you can see that the magical unicorn bonds have been created by our process . " ( Keeping in mind that I know nothing about bio-chem and ' magical unicorn bonds ' is a stand in for some actual process ) . Or in CS something like " Here you can see the robot we built " Statements like this imply or outright state that the object or information in the image is not just representative data but actual results or output . Data like this should not be manipulated or edited except for clarity ( circling a targeted area or adding minor labeling ) . The other kind of image is a bit rougher . These images can demonstrate what was expected to be seen , abstract output from the research , conceptual information . These kinds of images often are edited or manipulated . Sometimes as a demonstration of what was expected ( " We would expect magical unicorn bonds to appear after our procedure but instead ... " ) or as an explanation of something more abstract ( " the robot should follow the optimal path as shown here when it uses the stairs instead of running repeatedly into a wall " ) . These are things that are no reportable . They can be in poor taste and they absolutely should be caught by reviewers if they imply results beyond the scope of the actual research . But , in some fields , these are the best way to demonstrate expectations , abstract information or background information . All that being said - when you say the image is from a " commercial software " that makes me wonder if you mean not that it was created with " commercial software " but is actually an image from some commercial source . In this case the image may be copyrighted and it may not be appropriate , at all , to use in this research . This will depend on the image , the source and the ' tampering ' . As a counter example to this in the realm of computer vision every uses the standford bunny model in their publication . It 's a thing . This is not inappropriate . Someone using an image from a text book , however , or a Google search that they do not own is inappropriate and should be first reported to the PI of the paper and , potentially , the publisher if no action is taken .
One possibility to put this to an end would be to submit to another journal by an e-mail where you would explain the situation ( the paper has been submitted elsewhere , you withdrew it when you realized it was not handled properly , and you got no acknowledgment of this withdrawal ) , and with a CC to the editor-in-chief of the first journal . That way , the editors of the new journal would know for certain that you withdrew before submitting again , and you would be covered from possible accusations by the first journal . However this corners the first journal in a difficult situation , so it might make them react violently ; I would warn them before hand , and only use this as a last recourse . You can also try to get advice and help from a senior in your field , who will know the editors and might help smooth things out . A third possibility would be to contact a relevant committee in an academic society ( EMS has an ethics committee that could be contacted about a publication in a math journal for example ) .
In the US , it is very unusual to combine the title " Professor " with a first name . I have never been referred to as " Professor Tom " in my whole career . You can either write " Dear Prof. Smith " , using the family name , or " Dear John " . You should only write " Dear John " if you would call him " John " when you speak in person . ( For people you have n't met in person , the decision is a bit different ; but for people who you know personally , this is a good rule . ) For example , my students generally call me " Prof. Church " , but sometimes after they graduate I invite them to call me Tom ; in this case , it would be perfectly appropriate to send me a letter beginning " Dear Tom " . I would use " Hi John " only to convey a very informal tone . Even with colleagues or students with whom I 'm good friends outside of work , I still use " Dear Mary " when contacting them about professional business . For this reason , I do n't recommend using " Hi Prof. Smith " ; it mixes an informal term with a formal term .
There are no problems associated with you reviewing a paper again , regardless if it resubmitted to the same or a different journal . Since you have seen the paper earlier and know its earlier problems you can better judge how it has improved and to what extent it is now publishable . You should definitely let the editor know that you have been involved in the process of this paper earlier even if he/she has not indicated the paper has been rejected somewhere before . That information provides the editor with a better perspective of the development of the paper and can make the decision to accept or reject easier since the willingness or capability of the author ( s ) to improve the manuscript is set in perspective . You can always contact the editor and state that you are willing to take on the review but felt it was necessary to convey the information . I do not see it as necessary but it is of course a nice gesture .
I agree that honesty is the best policy , and it 's too bad if you 're in a situation in which you feel worried about admitting you do n't know the answer . You should n't try to bluff , by pretending you know but do n't have time to explain or by giving an intentionally vague answer . However , there are ways of handling it more smoothly than just saying " I do n't know " and leaving it at that . Depending on the circumstances , you can say " That 's a really interesting question . I have n't thought about it , so I 'll have to look into it , but let 's talk about it in office hours . " ( Or you can promise to return to the topic in the next class meeting if it 's really relevant to the course and everyone in the class will want to know the answer . ) Or " These issues can be complicated . I do n't know the details off the top of my head , but the place I 'd look them up is Reference Work X. I 'd be happy to show you where to find it after class . " Or " That 's a good question , but it 's somewhat beyond the scope of this class . I 'd be happy to investigate it with you outside of class . " The key is to respect the student 's desire to learn . If you avoid the question or give an answer you know is inadequate , then you 're being deliberately unhelpful . If you just give up and admit defeat , then at least you 're being honest , but the student still is n't finding out what he/she wanted to know . If you respond by pointing the student on the road to an answer , even if you ca n't supply it off the top of your head , then you 've done everything that can be expected of you .
If you want to try making a few changes , to see if they have a positive effect , before deciding , here are some ideas : Each semester , take one of the classes you 're interested in . Before reporting the week 's results to your advisor , anticipate what he might prescribe as the next step . Write up your ideas about next steps each week , to show to your advisor for his opinion and/or green light to go ahead as you proposed . Set aside one or two hours every day for literature research ( reading of papers ) . In the beginning it might take you more than a week to get through a paper , but it will get easier with practice . Please note , your distractibility is something you could talk over with a doctor ( general practitioner ) , if this is a significant problem for you . There are a number of things you and your professors can consider trying that might help . If your doctor screens you and finds a noticeable difference between you and the general population in this regard , you can get some assistance with management of the distractibility from your university .
When you submit a paper to a journal , you are implicitly agreeing to make a reasonable effort to publish the paper in that journal . But you are not signing a contract that requires you will make absolutely every change that the referees suggest . In the end , it 's your name on the paper . If the editor has actually rejected the draft ( e.g. " revise and resubmit " ) , and you are not interested in sending revised work , there are few direct consequences . You only need to write an email to the editor saying that you have carefully considered the referee 's reports , and that you would like to retract your submission . It is polite to acknowledge the referees at the same time , since they have spent time on your paper . But see the note of caution below ! If the editor has accepted your paper ( e.g. " accepted with minor revisions " ) then I would recommend making a good faith effort to revise the paper . This is what you implicitly agreed to by submitting to the journal . Of course , you do not have to make all the changes , or make them exactly how the referee wants . But you want to make a good-faith effort to address them in your own way . You do n't want to cultivate a reputation as someone who is not willing to make even reasonable changes to a submitted paper . One word of caution : it is not entirely " safe " to retract a paper and then submit it in the same form elsewhere . The new journal might end up picking the same referee ! <URL> on this site about this exact issue . I recommend reading that entire Q &amp; A thread , actually .
some have suggested complaining or going to some authority , but offer no specific suggestions about how to do this First , you need to understand how the authority chain is structured in academia . Your first course of action is to confront the instructor , which you 've already done . The next step up would be the department head , and after that , the dean of the school -- but I would n't recommend going past the department head with your complaints . You need to do this very carefully . You need to be level-headed , respectful , factual , and specific . Be sure your case is compelling . In the event of a " he-said/she-said " debate , assume the department head will probably lean toward having the faculty member 's back , rather than believing an offended student . Many students are too quick to complain when things do n't go their way , making it easy for complaints to fall on deaf and jaded ears . For example , in the scant details you 've provided here : Assignments are graded without rubric . I wo n't dispute the value of rubrics , but this is hardly a grievous offense . Many instructors do n't opt to use rubrics . Homework is graded inconsistently with instructions . This will be very hard to prove . A lot of assignments are by nature subjective , and it 's hard to pinpoint why grades are given the way they are . Students often turn in work that is inconsistent . For example , say I assign some problem to be answered with an essay question . One student gets right to the heart of the matter , but the overall work is sloppy , and it reads like a draft that was hastily written 10 minutes before class . Another misses the point a little bit , but the essay is carefully crafted and has a lot of supporting detail . A third addresses the matter from an angle I had n't considered before . How are my instructions supposed to cover all those cases , and more ? ( Moreover , assignment instructions are often very hard to get right the first time around , because you do n't yet know how students might misinterpret stated requirements . ) Tests are very hard , but contain no relationship to the course assignments and lessons . The first part of that is not a problem , although the second part is . If you start out by complaining about difficult tests , you may come across as a whiner and get very little sympathy or support . Be very careful about even mentioning that " tests are very hard . " You 'll also have to figure out what you want the end goal of your complaints to be . Do you want action taken before the semester is over ? Or are you only looking to give feedback so that next year 's students do n't find themselves in the same unfortunate circumstances ? If you 're hoping for intervention this term , probably the best you could hope for is for the department head to counsel the instructor , urging him to get his act together before the end of the term . But there are two sides to every story , and , unless your complaints are true on a large level , you 're unlikely to get much sympathy . In other words , a bad question here and there on an exam is part of getting a new course underway , as are confusing assignments . If these are just normal " growing pains , " you 'll come off as a malcontent . On the other hand , if these are verifiable , wholesale shortcomings in the ability to conduct a course fairly and effectively , you might get a department head to step in , and urge the professor to get his act together . Even then , though , you 'll probably have to make it to the end of the course , and you might see very little improvement . It 's unlikely that the instructor will be reassigned midstream . In short , you 'll have to convince the department head that this faculty member is bordering on incompetence , and that it 's not merely a case of an unpopular professor . This might be a tough sell .
Honestly , in this and at least one other question you are worrying about things that no one on the employer 's side will care about in the least . You do not need to send a thank-you letter to any of your interviewers . If you feel like you made a personal connection with a specific faculty member , you certainly may write an email ( or a letter , or whatever ... ) saying that you enjoyed meeting them / look forward to seeing them again / whatever . Or not : we wo n't care either way . Math departments are not evaluating candidates for their general etiquette . Please remember that : ( i ) We are drawing from a worldwide applicant pool , and there is no such thing as worldwide academic etiquette . We expect that once someone is hired they 'll learn the local ropes . ( ii ) Mathematicians have a reputation for being a bit eccentric / weird / exhibiting non-standard social behaviors . Probably this is somewhat exaggerated , but the truth is that math departments are a great haven for those whose professional competence vastly exceeds their social skills . If you are not too weird , it should not be a problem . Likability is , obviously , a positive , but we are really not running a popularity contest : the gentleman who was pretty quiet at lunch but gave a nice clear talk and has one more strong paper is going to get hired over the life of the party whose talk was a bit fuzzy and whose CV is not quite as strong . The above is centered on research departments . Liberal arts colleges value collegiality more , but they too will make a distinction between someone who is simply socially dexterous versus someone who knows what to do in the very specific , content-related interactions they will have with students . They will not assume that because someone is well-mannered they will be good with students ( or inversely ) : there are people whom I find painfully awkward who are wonderful with students , and students are surprisingly good at seeing the difference here as well .
Do not send too many emails -- this will undoubtedly annoy a professor who is possibly on vacation somewhere when they return to see 10 + emails from the same undergraduate ( ? ) . As to your second point , that is absolutely a no . Why are you even asking professors with whom you are not close enough that they do not even think that your major is related ? I feel like you may have more major problems , but I would not send more than a couple of emails at this time . If anything , the fall semester will begin soon and you can approach any professors in person to ask for a letter .
When an article is technically wrong , describes things that have been done dozens of times elsewhere or is just awfully written , then I recommend rejection , no matter the journal . After that , journal guidelines ( not the perceived or actual journal " quality " ) come into play : Match with the journal 's scope Journal requirements on novelty of ideas ( several journals are ok with articles that fill some gap in an otherwise well-understood field , but some very high-profile journals would like to see papers with significant novelty ) Methodological requirements ( e.g. some journals require that simulation results are validated against analytic results or measurement results ) So , there is some baseline , but afterwards it depends on the journal scope .
I really recommend that you start reading the Abstract , by that way you can get rid of some papers that would not be so valuable for your work . After that try to get a quick glimpse at the theoretical background , just to catch if there is some background that you are actually missing and you will need for understanding the article fully . Take your time to read the experimentation part and feel free to jump to the conclusions . Remember that you do not need to read some articles from the first page to the last page , except in some ocassions . There will be some sections that you can clearly jump e.g. the theoretical part , if you have the enough background .
Simply contact artwork 's author ( since the artwork was n't published , the author is copyright holder , otherwise it usually would be the publisher ) , requesting permission to adapt the artwork . I suggest sending the author planned version , so that any potential issues can be assessed and addressed . ( 1 ) I 'd say Yes . The citation is usually located below or above the figure in the following form : ( Adapted from " The DeLone and McLean model of information systems success : A ten-year update . " , by DeLone and McLean , 2003 , Journal of Management Information Systems , 19 ( 4 ) , p. 24 . Copyright 2003 by M.E. Sharpe , Inc. . Adapted with permission . ) . ( 2 ) Since artwork is someone 's intellectual property artifact , protected by copyright , it is usually ( for an exception , see fair use in the next point ) required to cite the artwork ( as any other such artifact ) to properly credit its authors . The format of citation depends on the publication style you 're using ( my example above is based on APA Style ) . ( 3 ) You 're required to get permission , unless you want to risk by using the <URL> legal doctrine . ( 4 ) If the artwork is part of a figure , see example above ; otherwise , other relevant standard citation guidelines for visual elements apply , based on the publication style you use .
end question
start question
Will taking no courses from physical sciences as an undergrad affect my chances of going to grad school for mathematics in the US ?
If you 're applying to a pure math program , then it 's unlikely that graduate admissions boards will be expecting courses in a particular outside discipline . If you 're doing applied math , however , it would be much more logical to expect to see some coursework in an outside discipline . However , economics may be suitable as an " outside " discipline if you 're taking advanced coursework with a mathematical bent to it . But overall , demonstrating that you are a strong candidate will make a much bigger impact than the specific training you have . Research experience , a strong statement of purpose , and great letters of recommendation will increase your chances of admission much more than if your " off-subject " courses are in economics or physics .
If you 're applying to a pure math program , then it 's unlikely that graduate admissions boards will be expecting courses in a particular outside discipline . If you 're doing applied math , however , it would be much more logical to expect to see some coursework in an outside discipline . However , economics may be suitable as an " outside " discipline if you 're taking advanced coursework with a mathematical bent to it . But overall , demonstrating that you are a strong candidate will make a much bigger impact than the specific training you have . Research experience , a strong statement of purpose , and great letters of recommendation will increase your chances of admission much more than if your " off-subject " courses are in economics or physics .
end question
start question
What should I do in the yearly group event ?
Just talk to your colleagues , ask them to show you their previous presentations . It 's perfectly fine to be afraid to make a mistake and ask " silly " questions . Here 's what I would do : tell about your previous research , if you are from different country/uni - maybe show some pictures . Then tell about your project - even if you do n't have any results ( and it 's ok ) you can talk about your research plan , experiments you plan to do . It 's good to have feedback/suggestions from seniors at this stage . Then , if you 're new - you can introduce yourself to others , maybe have one slide with pictures that represent your hobbies , etc. .
First off , if the professor is reluctant to have you talk to members of the group , this is a huge red flag . When you visit , ask if you can sit in on lab meetings or seminars ( some group setting ) and observe the dynamic . Does everyone seem engaged and happy to be there ? Is the mood collaborative and friendly , or authoritarian ? Basically , put yourself there and ask yourself if you 'd be comfortable . Ask the professor about their advising style and philosophy . Some like to be very involved , some want their students to be independent . Make sure their answer works for you . Most important one , in my opinion : contact a few of the other students independently , tell them you are coming to visit , and offer to take them out for a coffee or beer . This is an opportunity to ask them , in a relaxed non-work setting , about what they like and do n't like about working in the lab . Do not tell the professor what the students are thinking , in any case .
Should I mention my target audience / the aim of the paper in the abstract ? Should it be in the introduction ? Should it be in the paper at all ? In my experience you should mention the target audience / the aim of the paper in the both the abstract and the introduction , if possible . If you have to go with one of the two then mention it in the introduction , probably in the penultimate paragraph , where you move from explaining what has been done before to explaining what the paper will do . I think that mentioning the the target audience / the aim of the paper is important as papers are often rejected due to misunderstandings , for instance where they are directed at practitioners , but evaluated by reviewers based on other " quality " criteria . Accordingly , you should be very careful to set up the criteria that you want to be evaluated on . As one academic in my field once told me " you need to be very clear about the stick you want them to beat you with " . There are different ways you can do this sort of subtle scoping and expectation setting . It really depends on the field and venue you are targeting . Sometimes you can just start with " The paper aims to ... " . If that is too clunky , or you need to state things more subtly , you could use something like : To address the research gaps previously outlined ( e.g. , x , y , z ) , this paper therefore aims to ... " As the aim of the paper is to provide a foundation overview of ... , it mimics prior exemplars in this area ( e.g. , x ) to ( do ) x , y and z " . The benefit of doing something like the second one is that the linking to templates will let reviewers ( not all of whom may understand your type of intended contribution ) see that it i ) has been done before ( which reviewers often value ) , and ii ) give them something to compare your paper against to determine its quality .
I would say several points related to the candidates such as How much in average do candidates publish per year ? Where do they publish ? What conferences they presented their papers in ? What are the impact factors for journals they publish in ? What new research questions or directions do they have ? How much citations did they received ? With whom in the group they can collaborate ? What funds do they have or can bring ? What experience in writing proposals do they have ? What are some similar proposals that received funds ? Where their research is going in the next 5-10 years ? What industry or academic experience do they have ? What skills do they have ? Can they enhance research group diversity ? Can they teach , present and discuss well ?
Coining a new term in the title of your paper -- while defining it there or not -- is definitely something that you are permitted to do ( so it is " proper " , as you ask ) . I have seen this thing happen : the first example that sprung ( ! ) to my mind was Duchin , Moon Curvature , stretchiness , and dynamics . In the tradition of Ahlfors-Bers . IV , 19 -- 30 , Contemp . Math. , 432 , Amer . Math . Soc. , Providence , RI , 2007 . [ First sentence of the MathReviews description of the paper :] The author introduces stretchiness , a new and interesting notion describing a kind of curvature of a metric space . On the other hand , not only is this the first use of " stretchiness " in all of MathReviews , it is also the last . A recent paper of mine is called " Quadratic reciprocity in abstract number rings " , and you have to read the paper ( or at least the abstract ) to learn what an abstract number ring is . Whether you should use a new term in the title of the paper is a very subjective and personal choice . I guess it 's no secret that many , many people instinctively roll their eyes a little when they encounter a new word being coined . ( In fact , I this to be an interesting socio-linguistic phenomenon . But moving on ... ) Making up your own language can make you look arrogant , overly playful , simply ignorant of existing nomenclature , and so forth . But the majority of academic terminology was coined by some prior academic within the relatively recent past rather than the mists of prehistory : as new ideas and new objects are created , we need new words for them . Maybe -- maybe -- a good rule of thumb for this is that if you do n't feel acutely that something would be lost upon removing your new term from the title , then it really does n't need to be there . If you introduce the terminology within the paper itself , then you give the community a chance to chew on it , and then others can decide whether full promotion of the new term is a good idea . In fact , if I apply this standard to my own paper above , I am coming around to the idea that the title could be changed . The concept of an " abstract number ring " is not as important to me now as it was when I first started writing the paper . Whether it is good or bad in your particular case seems impossible to answer without ( i ) seeing the title of your paper and ( ii ) having some real expertise and wisdom in the subject area of your paper . I would suggest that you find someone who satisfies ( ii ) -- e.g. a current or former advisor or mentor -- and show them your paper .
Contact the editor you worked with and let them know . They will advise you of your options and hopefully work with you to update the online version and ( if possible ) either delay or fix the print version .
Here 's what I would suggest : First , alert the authors to the issues . Wait to see how they respond , or do not respond . But in all cases , they should be the first you write to . If the issues do not severely impact the correctness of the work or its utility , stop there . It 's probably not worth making a fuss about something most readers will either not use , or can easily correct themselves . If you publish something on the topic yourself , especially if you build on the authors ' equations or otherwise use them , you should make a note of the issue in your article . Finally , if you believe the issue is important and/or the equations are widely used , you should contact the journal 's editor and ask for guidance . Errata are " authored " by the original authors . Publisher 's corrections also exist , when the responsibility for the issue ( typo in equation , misprint in figures , etc. ) is that of the publisher .
If you can make the data set available to the community in some way , you are doing it a good service , because it will allow other people to use your dataset for comparison and for their own new works . If they find it useful , it will also help you , as the people who use it will cite your paper as the source . I would thus say that yes , if you have a good way to either post it online or attach it to your paper as supplementary information , this this is a good thing to do .
Why not ask your supervisor to give you examples of what editing he wants done and see if its something you can do on your own ? If you 've worked on the paper up to the 5th draft , it seems a shame to then allow someone else to take the credit for your own hard work . You can also read some good books on academic style of writing . Depending on your field , I can recommend this <URL> . I 'm sure there are <URL> . So in summary , if I were in your shoes I would do it on my own . I 'm sure good writing skills is something that 's valued even in most jobs .
Small errors that do not affect the results or conclusions of the paper are normally handled through publication of a correction ( or erratum ) . This is handled by the journal editor , who will be in contact with the authors for confirmation that they agree as to it being an error , and provide for the exact correction to be published . The journal that published paper should have a policy on corrections , check it out ! Physical Review Letters 's editorial policies and practices state , for example : Errata . -- The Errata section contains notices regarding errors or omissions in papers previously published . Besides the standard Erratum , several special categories of documents may appear in this section . In the online journal , each of these documents involve bidirectional links between the original article and the document in the Errata section . The category of the corrective document is indicated in its title and in the link from the original article . The standard Erratum is a statement by the authors of the original paper that briefly describes the correction ( s ) and , where appropriate , any effects on the conclusions of the paper . Thus , what you should do is : Make double sure it is actually an error . Then ask someone else to double check it again . Preferably someone more senior , i.e. with some experience of academic publication . Write to the corresponding author , pointing out the error . Be nice , and make real sure not to assume to worst . You say " this is a pretty big mistake and suggests they have n't actually read the paper they referenced " : depending on context , it could actually be something minor like a copy-paste mistake ( pasting the wrong reference , when they meant another paper ) If you do not obtain a response , or they respond but do n't intend to correct the error , then consider contacting the editor . I can understand why , as an undergrad , you would consider contacting the editor directly without writing to the authors first . However , as long as you remain professional in your correspondence with them , I think it 's best to contact the authors first . It 's more polite , and they may actually be able to provide you with some explanation you have n't thought of . Contacting the editor before the authors is somewhat overdoing it ...
Since the supervisor got the grant , he is ultimately responsible to the funding agency for the research that was funded and for any results . So the postdoc should definitely talk to the supervisor . Actually , this would be a great opportunity for the supervisor to help the postdoc grow academically , since postdocs are of course expected to take on more responsibilities than Ph.D. students , and start making their own reputation in a field , not stay in the supervisor 's shadow . So the supervisor should certainly understand that the postdoc will start flexing his wings and be interested in other topics - it just needs to be commensurate with the goals that the supervisor got the money for . If , conversely , the postdoc got his own grant , he should first of all look through the paperwork he presumably got , signed and returned before the money started rolling in . It is quite possible that an expectation of the funding agency as to the amount of work the postdoc should be spending on this particular project is already somewhere in the paperwork . Of course , even in this case , it makes a lot of sense to discuss this with the supervisor , who presumably has a lot of experience in this field , and possibly with this particular funding agency .
I underwent an interview recently from a prospective adviser , and I found the questions he asked of me to be pretty insightful - hence I 'm sharing them here . Why do you want to pursue research in this specific area ? This would highlight the candidate 's motivation in wanting to do research in a particular field - and would also tell the professor more about the candidate 's exposure to this area . What made you apply to this lab/university , as a continuation of the previous question ? The answer would tell you whether the applicant had simply browsed the rankings list of universities , or did he/she actually go through the research publications of the lab - and the application was done due to an intersection of the two ! What would you like to be doing post Ph.D. ? There is no " right " answer to this , but it also tells a lot about the candidate 's motivation in pursuing a PhD . Finally , you can ask the candidate to discuss any problem that he is familiar with in that field - does n't have to be anything fancy/complicated , but that would serve to highlight the clarity of the applicant 's reasoning , communication skills , and level of exposure to the field .
These meetings can serve a variety of purposes , but many of them fall into the broad category of keeping the adviser and all the group members updated on what everyone in the group is doing . Below are some of the secondary benefits of a group meeting : saves the adviser time ( compared to meeting with students individually ) motivates the students to keep doing work , so they have something to report at the meeting fosters a sense of community with the group provides the students experience giving informal presentations often leads to the more senior students mentoring the junior students To answer your follow-up question in the description , no , some faculty meet with each student individually ; in fact these separate meetings are common , for example , in mathematics .
You can find a lot of good examples on the web , written by professors with a lot more experience , but <URL> . It includes guidelines and advice on : How to approach group meetings and individual meetings with advisor ( me ) Finding a thesis topic Planning and recording research Reading the literature Writing papers Publishing papers Giving talks Programming Recommended software tools General conduct
The most important thing you need to do is figure out the copyright status . If you have given them exclusive rights to reproduce the work , then you may not be able to publish it anywhere else . It is likely that the copyright transfer was part of a publication contract where the publisher has agreed to publish your work in exchange for the copyright transfer . Hopefully , the publisher will given up the rights you transferred to them . If they wo n't , you may need to get a lawyer to explore your options . Having listed the paper in a scholarship application is problematic . Paper-based journals and journals that generate DOIs create a permanent record of the published papers . In your case , it seems a published paper has simply disappeared . I would write to the places you have submitted an application and explain the situation . something along the lines of The paper XXX , which I listed on my application , was published by YYY . Unfortunately , YYY is a known predatory publisher and has since made the paper unavailable . I still stand behind the research ; attached is a copy of that work . I am currently working towards resubmitting the manuscript to a reputable publisher . I am sorry for any problems this causes .
As stated by Massimo Ortolano , the typesetting is followed by a final check , proofreading , by the author . In many journals ( I will not venture to say all ) the movement of an article from the editor involves additional steps . The article is scrutinized to make sure it follows the journal format down to the smallest detail . this can be done by the editor , it can also be done by the type-setter but there may also be a step where a third person , the copy editor , is involved . The copy editor will make sure there are no grammatical errors as well as checking formal issues regarding style and formatting of journal specific issues including references . The result of the type-setting procedure is that some changes will occur but they should not be serious enough to alter the meaning of things . However , this can happen and is usually the result of an over-zealous editor , copy editor or type-setter , or a combination of the three . It is therefore quite important to review the proof very carefully . It is also vital to adhere to the journal format already when the manuscript is submitted since the risk of later editing errors is reduced . What system " your " journal uses may involve all or a few of the ones mentioned above . Depending on the setup the type-setter may be more or less involved with the text but in its pure form the type-setter should only place figures and format headings , text , references etc. according to journal standards . The proof should then also only involve very minor changes ( all issue should have been resolved much earlier in the review/revisions process including adhering to journal format ) . In most journals with which I am familiar , the time allowed for proofing is very short , perhaps , one work week . this will vary between journals somewhat and I know some may have only a few days whereas other may allow somewhat longer . In the end it is mostly you who will " suffer " from lateness since your article may be published later than originally planned by the journal . My recommendation is to be accessible on a regular basis once a manuscript has gone to type-setting and expect to spend a few hours proofing it within a few days upon receiving it . At least you now usually proof a digital copy ( pdf ) and not a paper proof that has to be sent via regular mail ( although I suspect that still can be the case with some journals ) .
shall I communicate their inclusion in the acknowledgements section ? Yes , why not ? It helps at building connections and improving relationships . Besides , if the acknowledged people are from a different field than yours , they might never know you 've acknowledged them otherwise . what will be the correct etiquette for such an email ? I do n't think there is any need to be overly formal . Typically I would write something simple , along the lines of ( names and facts have been changed to protect the innocent ) : Dear John , thank you very much for helping me with the problem of packing holes . I 've included an acknowledgment in a paper I recently wrote on the topic . The paper is titled " Packing the unpackable and stacking the unstackable " and has been submitted to the Transactions on Painstaking Stacking . You can find a preprint of the paper at the address ( link to , e.g. , arXiv ) . Kind regards/Sincerely/Cheers , Massimo The above example is meant to be sent just after the first submission . In more critical cases , when I 'm not sure whether the acknowledgment would be well-received or not , or if I think I might have written a wrong detail ( e.g. , the affiliation ) , I typically send a copy of the paper before the submission , asking for feedback .
In addition to sending an e-mail to the journal , as suggested already , you should check the most common academic databases such as Scopus and Web of Knowledge/Science and submit corrections to them so that they pick up the citation correctly . They have a form to submit this kind of corrections automatically ; it will then take a few weeks to apply them . People often ( way too often , actually ) rely on these databases to measure the performance of academics , so it is important that they do n't miss any of your citations .
While ignoring might be an option as the impact of this student 's report is not so high , not doing anything will educate students that it is okay to plagiarize or follow incorrect citing procedures . As such , which is also as a <URL> , it is best to contact the author of this report and inform him of the issues . ResearchGate does not have the policy to intervene , but if such situation occurs with actual published articles , one can contact the editor of the journal to file a plagiarism complaint , after which further action by the editors will be undertaken .
This is not a standard , but these are some considerations that have helped me : If I give code for students I take special care to be consistent ( I am not always successful ) . Students tend to find inconsistencies and think there must be a reason for that and start looking for reasons where none exist . I also consider the purpose of the snippet : is it an example of best practice or an illustration of how such code works . In the former case I would be less verbose with my comments then in the latter case . Sometimes it helps to have a list of trivial tricks separate from the example code . <URL> is an example I have used . This can be an alternative to commenting tricks in your code that are not central to the point you want to make with that example .
end question
start question
What kind of questions can I expect to see on a qualifying exam ?
I think you should n't believe everything you hear . Mathematicians like to tell stories about posing various famous open problems to certain brilliant young students , the idea being that these students do n't have the respect and fear for these problems that an adult mathematician would and that maybe , just maybe , they will innocently work on them and even solve them . And it seems to be true that every once in a great while a student solves a serious open problem this way . The vast majority of the time they do n't , of course : a problem that the experts in the field want to solve but ca n't is not going to be accessible to a young student , however brilliant , 99.99 % of the time . So maybe every once in a while a faculty member decides to put a " ringer " problem on an exam . What do you think is going to happen ? With probability very close to one , no one will solve the problem , and the writer will have to own up to the fact that the question was not an appropriate one and make sure the students were not in any way penalized by its appearance on the exam . How many times have I seen this happen on exams I have taken , written , or otherwise encountered ? Zero . In fact qualifying exams test a standard syllabus ; they certainly do not test research level mathematics . Every department does their exams at least a little differently ( a very few departments , like Princeton , do n't even have written qualifying exams ! ) so I do n't think there 's much point in preparing / worrying about quals until you enroll in a specific graduate program . Conversely , when you arrive in a graduate program , you should start asking for information about the qualifying exams . And you 'll get it : most programs have posted syllabi for quals . Many programs , including those I 've personally been involved with , have years and years of old quals for you to page through . Nowadays a lot of these are freely available online : in fact , please see <URL> : not only do they do they have posted all of their own qualifying exams going back at least ten years , they helpfully post links to qualifying exams at almost 20 different departments . Thus the way to study for and pass quals is to go through old quals learning the material and techniques that come up again and again until you can do most of the problems on a given qual in a reasonable amount of time . It 's not really any more mysterious or romantic than that ...
The following is written from my perspective and it reflects my biases . If someone feels the need to ask a question during your presentation , chances are it is because you failed to explain something properly and they do n't want to get lost . I , for one , hate it when a speaker just barrels through difficult material and I have to struggle to keep up ( one time , the speaker pulled up a slide full of long lines of lambda calculi and went " as we can clearly see here ... " ; avoid that ) . Go through your talk plan carefully , identify the tricky issues , and make sure that you do n't have hidden assumptions lurking anywhere . If in doubt , assume that the audience wo n't be able to follow you unless you explain things carefully . This much should ensure that all the questions come at the end and , more importantly , that they are substantial ( i.e. , none of this " I did n't quite catch your definition of blah , can you repeat it please ? " ) . As for thanking your advisors , it 's appropriate if you keep it short ( like 20-seconds-tops short ) . You already have the acknowledgements of your dissertation to wax poetic all you want .
No , I do n't think it 's rude at all . A sabbatical is not meant as a complete vacation from work . Rather , it 's a time for the professor to focus on scholarly work without the distraction of teaching or ( usually ) administrative duties . I 'd say that asking the professor to comment on your essay is definitely a scholarly activity , and so it 's a reasonable request . Of course , it 's up to the professor whether he actually wants to do it or not , or if he has time to do it given his other activities . Do n't be offended if he declines . Also keep in mind that many professors travel extensively during sabbaticals , or spend the entire time at another institution , so even if he is interested , he may not be able to meet with you in person - you may have to discuss it over email , Skype , etc. .
The official answer depends on where you are located , and the applicable laws in your jurisdiction . For instance , in Germany , graduate students are almost always employees of the government , and are therefore accorded vacation benefits commensurate to that ( between 23 and 29 days per year , depending upon age ) . In contrast , the United States technically does not have any requirements on annual paid leave , so the answer in principle could be as little as zero , but normally is two weeks per year . Unofficially , that 's a matter to be worked out between you and your advisor . Some advisors will be willing to let you take days off here and there as needed , so long as they do n't interfere with either your long-term progress or meeting your day-to-day responsibilities . Most advisors will be rightfully displeased if you ask to take two months of leave all at once , but most will not mind a three-day weekend here and there as needed .
Why not ask your supervisor to give you examples of what editing he wants done and see if its something you can do on your own ? If you 've worked on the paper up to the 5th draft , it seems a shame to then allow someone else to take the credit for your own hard work . You can also read some good books on academic style of writing . Depending on your field , I can recommend this <URL> . I 'm sure there are <URL> . So in summary , if I were in your shoes I would do it on my own . I 'm sure good writing skills is something that 's valued even in most jobs .
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
As a teacher of graduate-level finance classes , the main writing they are expected to perform are business reports and essays . I find that writing essays is easier for them but it is quite common for students to have challenges writing business reports ( using bullet points properly , using graphics properly , using section headings and very concise writing properly ) . As far as key skills you should be thinking about , the biggest ones are : How to construct a proper argument using academic evidence ( reasonable sources as opposed to some random person 's blog The ability to properly cite the work of others ( related to the point above ) Including counter-arguments in their work ( another extension of the first point ) If all my graduate students had these skills , my life would be much easier .
Yes , you can , and you should . It is not impolite ( unless you actually have access ) , and it is not unethical . I do n't think it is illegal , if you do not distribute it further , and it is certainly not uncommon . First , make sure you really do n't have access ( otherwise , you risk looking a bit like a fool ) , then ask him . Do n't make a big deal of it , just explain that you lack access and you believe he may have them , if so could he please send them .
Here 's how it typically works ( at least in the U.S. ) . First , you should warn him that you do n't feel you can write a strong enough recommendation for him to get this job , and that you 're convinced he 'd be better off with another recommender . You should try to explain why , so he can learn why you think this position is not a good fit for him . If he insists that he wants to apply and has no other options for a recommendation , then you should try to write a supportive but honest letter , typically by taking your previous letter and strategically modifying it to fit this particular job . By " supportive but honest " , I mean making the best case you reasonably can under the circumstances , but being honest about any weaknesses and not endorsing him in any way you 'd regret . Often , instead of saying " I do n't recommend hiring him " you can instead say something with enough qualifications that anyone can read between the lines . For example , suppose an excellent teacher is applying for a job he simply does n't have the research accomplishments for . You can send a letter that comments in detail about his teaching and concludes by saying " Although Bob does not yet have any peer-reviewed publications , I 'm confident that his work in progress will lead to a publishable paper . When combined with his excellent and enthusiastic teaching , this makes him a good candidate for a faculty position that prioritizes teaching over research . " If you send this to a faculty search at a research university , they will read it as an automatic rejection , without your having to say so explicitly . ( Note that if Bob actually applies to an appropriate teaching position , then you should not send this text , but rather a more enthusiastic version with fewer qualifications . ) Of course you may not want to set up an automatic rejection , but rather just to make sure the hiring committee is aware of your concerns . Another possibility is to conclude by saying " Bob is in many ways a strong candidate for this position . My one reservation is ... " If the hiring committee agrees with you that this is a concern , then they will reject him , but at least you gave him a chance to find out whether this issue worries the committee .
I had the same problem with my MSc thesis which I will have to hand in this month : The topic was too broad and complicated , the supervisor gave me a topic which was actually supposed for another PhD student . So I failed ( will not get very good grade ) . But I dont think any conclusion can be drawn for my future work , my other thesis and seminars went all excellent . If you just failed on this one thesis ( and otherwise have good results ) and the people at the other lab like you , they will certainly help you so you will succeed . The supervisor is I think more crucial than the actual topic , because if you have a nice supervisor he will always help you and with the team together you can succeed .
Ask them the purpose of not providing a mathematics proposal . A hard science looking at a similar science might get tunnel vision , but I doubt a mathematics PhD would face the same problem seeing as they 're less experimental method than other fields . PhD proposals , unlike theses , also seem to be much more readily accessible online . A quick search for on Google , even without Scholar , yields a decent amount of samples that provide a significant amount of differing examples in sufficiently different subjects from math that the content can be differentiated from the style .
First of all , consult a lawyer before doing anything . If you were to leave in the middle of the course , that will cause havoc , that they wo n't probably want . Since they are not paying you for the work , you are under no contractual obligation to fulfil anything ( but consult the lawyer ) , and can leave without giving them notice . Now , you may find unethical to leave your students hanging like this , but the mere threat that you are willing to do it , may get some wheels spinning to give you a decent offer . Another option to consider is whatever anti-slavery laws apply in your jurisdiction , since you are working for free ; and anti fraud , because you are working without a contract . Furthermore , since you do n't have a contract , you are not covered by the insurance , and if anything were to happen during your lecture , there is trouble . Think who would have to pay for in case , for example , a projector caught fire and ruined the classroom . If your oral agreement is considered a contract , you ca n't do this ; but then they would be acknowledging they have to abide by these rules .
The true anonymity of " anonymous evaluations " is a key issue ( in academia and also in the workplace ) . If you say an evaluation is anonymous , can you later take them to task for something they wrote that you regard as problematic ? This happened at my university a few years back . Student course evaluations are done electronically now , and they are said to be anonymous . However , one student " contributed " an anonymous evaluation which criticized their instructor for their sexual orientation . The university IT staff got involved , did in fact trace the evaluation back to the student , and the student was prosecuted for it . In particular , IIRC their name was made public ( I read about this in the university paper ! ) and they may have had to write a letter of apology . This is a good problem for an ethics class : should the university have done this ? After reflecting about it for a while , my feeling is that the university did behave unethically : not by tracking down a comment that violates rules of university conduct ( not to mention the rules and conventions of civilized society about treatment of minority ) , but by not being open with the students that the anonymity in the evaluations was meant as a policy decision , not a factual description of the way the technology is implemented . They could have designed the system so that university IT staff would have no way -- or at least , no standard , built-in way -- of tracking it back to its origin . Anyway : yes , it is probably technically possible that the evaluation can be traced back to you . The moral of the above story is that unless you specifically know and trust the mechanisms that prevent that , you should regard the anonymity as being at the level of policy -- i.e. , you are honorbound not to act on the knowledge of the identity -- rather than a true lack of knowledge of the writer 's identity . As for the rest , you ask : Do you think I will lose my job over it ? Maybe another dumb question , but I 'm stressing right now . That does n't sound like a dumb question for you . However , in my opinion it 's " a dumb question " ( rather , an unfruitful one ) to ask us . We do n't know : Who you are , and what are the conditions of your employment . Where you work , and who your colleagues are . What you wrote . Without this information , our best guess at the answer is nowhere near as good as yours . I understand that because of your closeness to the situation and reasonable anxiety , it may be hard for you to view objectively . I suggest that you confide in someone you can trust and who is closer to the situation . @Trevor Wilson asked : Was it this case : nytimes.com/2008/01/20/magazine/20wwln-ethicist-t.html ? If so , it sounds like the evaluation was handwritten . Nice find ! I checked it out a bit , and ... I think it is likely that this is the same case , and that it was long enough ago ( longer than I thought ) that I am not quite remembering the particulars . It is also interesting that this made " Ask an Ethicist " ... and the Ethicist said very much what I said above . Adding to the irony , I suppose I am now criticizing my university a bit by weighing in on this . I think they can take it .
The university I 'm at recently had a class with lecture in the morning , lab that afternoon , exam an hour after that , then a quiz the following morning in lecture , and finally a recitation that afternoon . Summer semesters tend to be like this as they are shorter in length than a fall or spring semester . No one is happy with it , but it 's what needs to happen to cover all the requisite material . What would typically happen during a regular semester is that labs ca n't be moved or adjusted , but usually the following lecture is either shorter of cancelled if it is the next day and the lecture the day of the exam is mostly review . But I must point out it is at the discretion of the professor .
In terms of status-enhancement or proof of merit , the actual giving of the talk is of almost no consequence . The invitation is the thing that " proves " status and merit ( such as they may be ) . So , yes , list it , all the more considering that you probably do n't have many such episodes to put on your CV . For that matter , if you yourself had some ( unfortunate , presumably ) reason to cancel from your end , still , you did get the invitation . From their end , to cancel your talk after issuing the invitation would be a fairly severe gaucherie ... so I 'd bet it wo n't happen . Even if it did , almost-surely the official reason would be some funding problems , not that they 've discovered that you 're a poseur and a bad person , etc. . So the status and virtue leading to the original invitation are not diminished . Being invited to give presentations is a kind of proof of one 's relevance to the research community . There are rumors of " an internet " , supposedly allowing easy , massive , long-distance asynchronous communication without the expenses and perils of long-distance personal travel , but until that possibility is assimilated into the academic community ... much like the notion that " publication " could mean literal publication , rather than running a status-and-merit gauntlet ... :) Joking ( ??? ) aside , it 's not the literal giving of the talk , and is not the literal publication in refereed journal , that confer status or prove merit , but the invitation ( resp . acceptance ) .
This depends on the customs of the field and the venue . I will answer based upon my experience from an HCI-related subfield of CS : Conferences usually have some requirement of novelty for published works . Therefore , if a paper associated with the poster already appeared in some proceedings of the first conference , you might not fulfil this requirement . First , however , some different cases might apply : If the poster was not " formally published " ( i.e. did not appear as a ( short ) paper in any kind of proceedings ) , you should be good to go . If the poster was supposed to be " formally published " , but the conference organizers never got around to setting up the proceedings of the poster session , you 're in a bit of an inconvenient situation . Your work is not published in a way that it can be cited ( well , it can , but it does n't look as verifiable as other papers and is not archived by any publisher ) , but it has been presented . You may want to contact the conference organizers in this case whether publishing your work again is ok , or else you may want to wrap your work in something larger ( i.e. present something new , but reiterate the points from the poster as a part of the exposition ) . Even if your poster was published in some kind of proceedings , there may be some options : Posters are often allowed to present work in progress . If your poster ( and the connected paper ) was presented in a way to present work in progress , your new conference paper might indeed present the final state of whatever you devised . This can essentially match the content of your poster , but provide more details ( see also below ) . Even if the poster presented final results , the term " results " seems to be seen in a very wide sense at least in my fields , possibly in others . A full conference paper provides much more space than a poster paper , and on the poster , you probably presented different ( more visual ) things than you would in text . As such , you can shift the focus of your conference paper compared to the poster ; where the poster focused on the results , the conference paper might discuss the methods used to obtain the results in depth , including design decisions , citations of similar experiments , a verification of the reliability of your experiments , etc. . This kind of description can be useful for the community and subsequent works , and as such should provide enough new content , despite being based upon the same material as the poster .
Copyright protects published texts and images , not the underlying ideas . A concept such as a " Fourier transform " can not be copyrighted , no matter how it 's written or described . However , what you can not do is republish the material that 's been put under copyright without obtaining permission , or demonstrating a clear fair-use case . For instance , one or two short , relevant quotations that are properly cited in a 50-page manuscript will not get you into trouble . Reprinting larger amounts or more complicated material ( tables , graphics , etc. ) , however , should be done via a copyright request to the publisher . You can not reprint the text of problems that have been published elsewhere ( unless , of course , it 's sufficiently generic that it could be found in multiple books . For instance , the following text would not likely be copyrightable : Prove that a connected open subset of R ^ n is pathwise connected . for the reason that there is no " unique " or " original " content here ; literally any book in the field could pose the same problem in exactly the same way . However , a longer , more detailed statement of the problem , guiding you through specific steps , would probably not be publishable . On the other hand , the solution of such problems , so long as they represent independent scholarly work , need not be " suppressed . " Again , copyright applies to the authors ' wording of the solutions of the problems ; the method for solving them can not be copyrighted ! If you solve them yourself , and publish your own solutions , that 's not violating copyright . ( There is the issue of making the lives of future students easier , because you 're publishing solutions online that they could plagiarize from , but that 's a separate issue from if you 're allowed to publish such material . )
Using a CC-BY license on arxiv.org will be fine whenever you do n't need to retain exclusive rights . CC-BY is a non-exclusive license , and you are free to grant as many non-exclusive licenses as you wish . However , you wo n't be able to grant a exclusive license thereafter , which is what most commercial publishers are looking for . The typical " transfer of copyright " would essentially be an exclusive license in these cases . If you intend to publish the paper submitted to arxiv.org with an open access publisher , it should generally work with a CC-BY license . Most open access publishers require only a non-exclusive license to publish a paper , so there would be no conflict here . It may however not be possible to go to a publisher which requires either an exclusive license or a copyright transfer afterwards . Interestingly , a copyright transfer may be less restrictive than an exclusive license in this case . In principle , it should be possible to transfer copyright even if a license have already been granted to someone else ( that 's how a company would buy software from another company that has already been licensed ) . So , why not try the following with your next paper : Submit it to arxiv under a CC-BY license . Submit to a commercial publisher , and add a statement like this to the copyright transfer agreement : " This agreement is with the understanding that a non-revocable , non-exclusive license under the terms CC-BY has been granted to a arxiv.org . " I wonder how they 'd react ...
You probably ca n't . Exam periods are high intensity last minute sprints , exhausting and taking a toll on the other aspects of your life . Personally , I barely spent time cooking or meeting friends . My time was spent on life support activities ( eat and sleep ) , studying , and regretting not having managed my time better . I also remember being exhausted and not being able to do much intellectual work right after the exams were over . You can pull this off for a short period of time , but you can not keep this for long without being burned out . Plan ahead , spread your workload , and make sure you get enough rest and leisure to keep your brain rested and at peak efficiency .
Most commonly the deadline is inclusive , i.e. , " January 15 " means that the deadline is " at some moment during January 15 " . What does this mean can vary : For online applications , it 's usually 23:59:59 . For mailed applications , there are two options and exactly one of them is true : either the poststamp has to be January 15 ; or it has to arrive to the institution by January 15 . For applications you deliver in person , usually the opening hours of the office where you have to bring it apply . In either case , it should be specified in the conditions . And please remember that timezones can play a role here , and everything is in the timezone of the institution where you apply unless stated otherwise . / From comments / If you doubt the precise conditions , just call them or e-mail them and ask for clarification . It will cost you less than solving any troubles afterwards .
end question
start question
Should students be shown the grading rubric ?
Being open and clear about your grading policy is a large part of what makes the grades you assign meaningful . In that respect , it is generally helpful to share the rubric with your students if you work from one . At minimum , a good <URL> system should meet three criteria : it should accurately reflect differences in student performance it should be clear to students so they can chart their own progress it should be fair Sharing your rubric directly enhances the second criterion , and presents a context for evaluating the other two . You might also consider using some of your lecture time to go over examples of what an excellent lab report should look like and then discuss the rubric with your students . This would give you an opportunity to point out that lab reports should cover key points , but good lab reports do n't necessarily follow a rigid cookie-cutter format . Since you asked about sources on sharing rubrics with students : The authors of <URL> , mention discussing the grading rubric with students and even include a chapter on constructing/tailoring rubrics directly with student feedback . [ Stevens , et al. ] " ... because we discuss the rubric and thereby the grading criteria in class , the student has a much better idea of what these details mean ... " However , you may be interested in <URL> which examines the learning outcomes for different peer groups when they 're given details about assessment criteria . Evidence for their conclusions is based on a very limited number of samples , so the usual cautions apply , but they found that simply sharing explicit grading criteria was not sufficient to positively influence learning , while making time for the students to work more intensively with the rubric did yield benefits . [ Rust , et al. ] " ... it is being engaged with the process of marking as well as seeing examples of other work that significantly contributes to the students ' subsequent improvement in performance . "
Writing " good " papers is an integral part of being a good academic , and therefore it is , in my opinion , something that supervisors should teach their students . This means you should be active in teaching them how to write , and less active in the actual writing itself . Struggling is part of any learning process , provided they are struggling with writing , and not with your reviews . The best you can do is to provide the student with clear goals of how the paper should look , how it should be structured and what it should contain . Looking back at my own first papers , I usually started writing before knowing exactly what the bottom line , e.g. the take-home message , should be . Discussing a plan of the paper , both with regards to content and the writing process , with the student before letting him/her write it is probably a good idea . When reviewing the manuscript , I think it 's important to provide clear , consistent and constructive criticism . Specifically : Clear : If you do n't like a sentence , paragraph , figure or table ( do n't forget these latter two ! ) , make sure you tell the student exactly what you do n't like about it . This may require putting intuition aside and thinking through why you 're not happy with it . Consistent : Avoid editing ping-pong that lead to the same paragraph being re-written 20 times back and forth . It 's probably a good idea to keep copies of previous iterations with your own comments . This also helps the students if you can tell them they 've done a good job fixing things from the previous iteration . Constructive : This is kind of obvious , but I ca n't be reminded of it often enough . Deadlines are a bummer , but they 're as much part of the academic process as the writing itself , so the best you can do is to teach your students to prepare for them adequately , i.e. plan ahead . Addendum As for authorship , in my opinion , teaching a student to write a paper in no way qualifies as co-authorship . It 's part of your job as an academic . Co-authorship is something that arises out of having contributed significantly to the contents of the paper .
I 'll answer , not from the perspective of a professor ( I 'm not one ) but as a student who had advisors who were very generous in that regard : What do you mean by independent research ? When people say this , they usually mean research that is outside a clear plan of action . For example , in the biomedical sciences , it 's somewhat common to turn a particular specific aim of an R01 grant into a PhD student 's dissertation . That 's a plan . But along the way , the student may be interested in a methodological musing , a side project , a short data analysis task on something interesting that 's come up , etc. . So basically , I 'd take it to mean anything that 's outside what you 've been tasked to do , or come up with tasking yourself to do , as part of your degree program . Should your students conduct independent research and publication in the field of their PhD/MSc research topic or it can be in any other field of their major and interest ? It probably should n't detract from their research topic , but I 've never seen any reason why more general topics are a problem . Indeed , if the student is restricting it to their research topic , than why is n't this part of their thesis/dissertation in the first place ? If their independent research is not in the field near to their PhD research , should they inform you about their other research projects or not ? It 's good for them to inform you of what they 're working on regardless . They may be able to provide support , put in a kind word to an editor , etc. . And these people will be writing your letters of recommendation - they should be able to talk about the exciting stuff you do even if it 's not directly their project . And they should be informed so they can tell if you 're potentially overburdening yourself .
Both ways are equally acceptable and used in separate instances . Basically if the author ( s ) names occur in the sentence type ( 2 ) should be used and if the name ( s ) are not then type ( 1 ) should be used . The question is then when the two forms result . Type ( 1 ) is a more passive form used when you , for example , are describing general background where the specific reference might not be key . The form is quite common ( but not exclusive ) to the introduction section . The sense is that the information is more distant from your own study . Version ( 2 ) is used when the cited studies are building the story and is closer to your work and thus more important for understanding the details of your study . A good example may be in the discussion where your results are compared with other specific studies . This is just a generalization since both are useful in all parts of a research article .
Some style guides ( Chicago , MLA , etc. ) have rules for how to do this ; if you know that you are required to follow some specific one of these , then the advice there will be authoritative . That said , there are still several different options for how the original quotation and the translation are presented : the choice is yours , and then the various manuals may give you " implementation details " about such vital matters as the placement of punctuation . ( For example , the 16th edition of the Chicago Manual of Style has extensive guidance in 13.71-13 .79 , but stops short of presenting the One True Method of including dual-language material . ) I 'm afraid I do not know which style manuals might be preferred for German-language texts . Your basic choices are : Whether the original , or the translation , is the primary version . Whether the secondary version appears in the body text , in a footnote , or in an endnote . In your case , you have decided that the translated version is primary , which makes sense if most readers do n't care about the specific wording of the original , but may still want it to be available . You 've also chosen to place the original text in a footnote , which makes sense for a " mid-length " quotation . If you only wanted to gloss a few words , it would be more natural to do this inline . If you had a more extensive quotation , then putting it in an endnote - or even an appendix - would avoid the problem of the gigantic multi-page footnote which can be so hostile to readers . So I think your choices are perfectly defensible . In the case where both the original and the translation are from an external source , it is clear that both should be cited . Otherwise , you would not be giving due credit to the author and translator . Here , the translation is your own , and in principle you should note it as " my translation " in whatever way is compatible with your citation style . For example , perhaps your footnote would say : 1 My translation ; original : Es geht nicht ... or perhaps you would write in text : ... the whole bakery . " [ DK 2009 , my translation ] The specifics depend on which style guide you are following , if any . Some of these " my translation " notes could be omitted , though that really depends on the quantity and variety of sources you are translating . If you have many translated quotations , some by you and some by others , then it would be clearer to retain the notes . If there is only one source which you quote repeatedly , then you could note " my translation " the first time and then not mention it again . Another option is an explicit note early in the document , saying that all translations are your own unless indicated otherwise .
Allow me to strongly disagree with eykanal 's answer . There is no universal standard . You must ask your advisor in advance what her coauthorship policy is . In theoretical computer science ( and mathematics ) , it is generally considered unethical to list someone as a co-author who has not made a novel and significant intellectual contribution to the paper . In particular , merely funding the research is not considered an intellectual contribution . Adding a supervisor 's name to a paper to which they have not directly , intellectually contributed is lying . In practice , writing a good grant proposal requires at least as much intellectual novelty as writing a good paper . Most of the good ideas that PIs pour into their proposals also appear in papers ; as long as those ideas constitute novel intellectual contributions , the PI merits co-authorship . But that only works once per idea ; once an idea has been published , it 's no longer novel , by definition . To be specific and personal : I am not a coauthor on all of my PhD students ' papers . ( Of course , I still report my students ' independent work back to NSF as outcomes on whatever grants supported them . So I still get credit from NSF for having the foresight to fund the student . ) The same is true of all the other theoretical computer science faculty in my department . My PhD advisor is a co-author on only one of the papers I published as a PhD student . My PhD advisor does n't have a single co-authored paper with his advisor .
It is time to decide whether to lead or get out of the way . If you choose to get out of the way , you will need to either find a PhD project that does interest you or do something else . The more interesting and constructive option is to decide to lead . You have presumably spent some time learning the background to the project . The new students do not have that background , but are interested in the project . You should do everything you can to help them succeed . Work with them on deciding what should be coded , bringing your background knowledge to the table . Work with them on turning results into papers . You do n't have to code better than them , just make their coding more effective than it would have been without your efforts .
The United Nations University does not really work as a normal university , but rather as a research center . The difference is that they recruit students from developing countries as for a period that can go from several months to a year , in order to make them work on concrete research projects , so that they can gain experience ( which can help them to apply for a Master of PhD program somewhere else ) . For instance , this a <URL> for students at the UNU-IIST ( International Institute for Software Technology ) . Note that the UNU-IIST also plan to offer a joint <URL> with the University of Pisa . Note also that it seems that each institute of the UNU is to some extent independent , so maybe other institutes provide more academic programs . So , to answer your questions , technically speaking there are students at the UNU ( when I was working at the UNU-IIST , there were something between 10 and 20 students ) , but they are not " enrolled " by the UNU , it 's more like some kind of internship .
The extent of a re-review depends on what has been done with the manuscript ( MS ) . If the first review round yielded questions and comments that can be fixed but may require checking to make sure the implementation of the comments are correct , then , as you say , you will not have to do a full-blown re-review . If , on the other hand , the revisions are such that the MS has been substantially modified , perhaps with new parts added , new data included , etc. the situation is different . Then the paper is so modified it is in some way more of a new MS than just revised and , hence in need of a new throrough review . So in my opinion , the need of re-review depends on the severity of the required changes . How you decide depends on your opinion of the new paper . If an editor feels a MS is in need of so substantial revisions it becomes a new MS , then it is often rejected with a note about re-submission after work has been done . So in the end it is your view of the severity or magnitude of necessary changes that largely determines how much should be done . In some cases authors may disagree with a comment you feel strongly about and in such cases it may be necessary to enforce the view through more careful and convincing scrutiny . EDIT : I should perhaps add that a second or more reviewers may have given other comments that influence your review . This means parts of the MS can be changed in ways you have not suggested so although a new detalied re-review may not be necessary a careful read through and comparison with the old may be in order . Sometimes authors ( we ) can use conflicting reviews to argue against one or the other .
A good question . Why would the school make this investment ( which could be closer to $ 100K/year ) ? As pointed out , if you are TAing/grading/teaching , you are providing services that the school charges undergraduates for . The funding of a university is not entirely like that of a business . Some of the money is a direct investment in purely academic pursuits , especially that from grants . Educating people and doing basic research is part of what that money is allocated for . Averaged over all the graduate students , the direct value that they provide to the university in terms of research which goes on to get grants/prestige/donations / patents is substantial . There is a non-trivial chance that you will become a wealthy donor to the school .
From a general survey of style books , yes , at least the first alphabet should be capitalized : American Medical Association Manual of Style : Title format ( e.g. Average Consumption Index , % ) Chicago Manual of Style : Sentence format ( e.g. Average consumption index , % ) Scientific Style and Format ( Cambridge ) : Sentence format An easy way to see this : axis labels are akin to the row and column titles in a table . If those titles are generally capitalized ( which is the norm ) , then the axis title should also follow . So , I 'd recommend at least follow the sentence style capitalization rule . This is not to say lower case titles are absolutely wrong , but I am sure they will raise more eyebrows in a bad way .
Disclaimer : I am still a graduate student and my experience is limited to my own application process and as a student member of my department 's graduate admissions committee . I have seen that specific reasons are almost always better than general reasons . When I was going through the application process , my SOP always mentioned current specific projects that my POI 's were doing and how I could be an optimal choice for those projects in the near future with my background and current research . This approach seems to have worked well enough for me . During multiple interviews in the application process , my SOP was often alluded to , especially in context with these specific projects and my fit with them .
I really like working problems with students , because I think that actually working a problem is a very good way to engage more deeply with the material . That said , you 've put your finger on two very important problems : engaging the whole class , and dealing with incorrect solutions . My approaches to these two problems : Engaging the whole class : you do n't have to have everybody talk , but you have to give an opportunity for everybody to talk . In fact , I think it 's often better not to call on individual students , and thereby put them on the spot . But you can promote engagement by calling on subsets of the class , e.g. , " Let 's hear from somebody who has n't spoken yet " , " somebody on the left side of the room " , " one of you folks in the back " . This gives you ways to make sure the confident students do n't dominate and allow less confident students space to step forward . Dealing with incorrect solutions : Honest mistakes are golden , for every one highlights a way in which a student is misunderstanding the material . Depending on the nature of the mistake , you can take a number of different approaches . With some mistakes , you can just follow through to illustrate how things go wrong , then use that as a contrast . With others , you can go <URL> and ask the student questions that lead them to understand the correct answer more deeply . Yet others give you a chance to segue into an explanation of common misunderstandings . I say , cherish the mistakes , give the student positive feedback for speaking and thinking even as you tell them they are wrong , and turn them into opportunities for deeper understanding . To me , the flip side of the problems you highlight are , in fact , the best reasons to ask students to help work problems in small recitations . Solved well , they can present students with some of the best guided learning opportunities in an entire course .
Short answer : no ( do n't bother ) . More nuanced answer : it depends . Is your paper of earth-shaking significance in some way ? Is it going to appear in some renowned journal ( Nature , PNAS , Lancet , Journal of the ACM , etc. ) ? If not , it is little more than a waste of time to try to add the information to your application . Late information is rarely added to application packets ( which these days are anyway handled almost entirely online -- convenient in certain ways but makes for an additional hassle when it comes to adding to or correcting an application or supporting documentation ) . However , if you have corresponded with some professor you would like to work with at the grad school that you are applying to , and have reason to believe this professor might be interested and able to influence the admissions committee , then I would certainly take the time to send a polite e-mail to this person indicating that your paper was accepted in such-and-such notable journal or conference . I would however avoid bringing up a rejection , and would also not take the trouble in case of acceptance of a less important article ( or one in a less-respectable forum ; e.g. , an op-ed in your college newspaper ) .
Ok I did this before . This is actually quite simple and straightforward , so without sugar coating it , you should have three main parts : Introduction and Conclusion : The reader should be able to go only through your introduction and conclusion chapters , and see what is going on . I 'm hoping you know what chapter numbers they are by now ! Background and Related Work : After introduction you should have a solid background and related work chapter ( s ) . Do n't introduce something that you do n't use and do n't hide some background read here . Ok ok , the last two parts you did n't ask for but I wrote it to be a complete reference for others . Ok now to your questions : ' I 'm a qualified PhD ' chapters ! : Now two to four chapters should be explicitly cover your own work . So : 3.1 Separate theory from practice : I do n't want to see some theory stuff and then suddenly a pipeline to a compiler . It has many advantages in terms of defending it and then correcting it later on if necessary . Also the examiners will see that you are well rounded computer scientist ; therefore you know your practice as well as theory and vice versa . So basically , you do n't want to have an impression on examiners that you just injected theory/practice because you are weak in practice/theory . 3.2 Unify Your approaches : Can you find a common ground between all the techniques you used ? For example , you could have a chapter on code generation techniques , and then group all your work into one chapter . The pitfall here is to repeat the same approach over and over for different models . 3.3 Solid Evaluation : You need a solid evaluation , now that you used different techniques try to honestly evaluate them . Also , more importantly try to write a comparison between all of the techniques used and highlight each individual positive and/or negative outcomes . 3.4 Appendices : Moreover do n't just drop boilerplate code in your own chapters , try to use number of appendix for different parts of your code .
A review is supposed to provide the view of a peer on the manuscript submitted for publication . An editor needs to take one or several , usually two , reviews to form the basis on deciding on the faith of the submitted manuscript and to form the basis for revisions by the authors . There are very few instances , I have yet to see one , where a paper is publishable as is . There is , however , no clear correlation between usefulness and length of a review . The key is to provide feedback for improvements to ensure the manuscript becomes an as good a contribution as possible . Some reviewers spend much time correcting language or other formal aspects of manuscripts . These sorts of comments are always welcome but the core issues are focussing on the science itself and the clarity with which it is disseminated . So a shorter form of report contains the core scientific and clarity issues encountered and perhaps general comments on other shortcomings , a longer report details also the detailed issues . The size of the reports obviously depend on the quality of the manuscript but also on your expertise . Some times editors appoint reviewers to cover a narrower but vital aspect of the manuscript . The good review should be critical , fair and objective and provide both the editor and authors with suggestions for improvement . By necessity this will be more than just a few paragraphs of comments
According to <URL> : The conference proceedings are to be published in the Springer 's LNAI ( indexed by DBLP , EI , Scopus , and Thomson ISI ) . In other words , your conference paper is already published . The journal paper will therefore be a new publication , and as such , you could use a different title , to avoid any confusion ( and it will be a different paper , since you have to expand it ) . EDIT However , there are precedents , for at least one previous edition of the conference you 're mentioning , of authors having the same title in the conference and in a journal edition ( taken from DBLP ) : Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . IEICE Transactions 94-D ( 3 ) : 479-486 ( 2011 ) Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 271-281 Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Ling Ji : Power load forecasting using data mining and knowledge discovery technology . IJIIDS 5 ( 5 ) : 452-467 ( 2011 ) Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Yakun Wang : Power Load Forecasting Using Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Technology . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 319-328 Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . IJATS 3 ( 4 ) : 1-18 ( 2011 ) Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 329-338 Looking at random references from the journals in question , it seems quite frequent to have the same name for a journal paper and a conference publication the previous year . In other words , I stand corrected , and you might want to keep the same name for the journal version . As pointed out by DavidRicherby and Mangara , it 's likely to be field dependent . Hence , the best approach is probably to look at previous editions of the journals in question , and check if there are matching conference papers .
The existing answers seem to me extreme . I do n't think some sort of draconian blanket " leaving-the-room policy " is needed here . I would suggest the following : For students leaving occasionally : Ignore it . They are adults and sometimes things in their lives may take higher priority than your class ( e.g. going to the bathroom , feeling unwell , family emergencies , etc ) . If it 's distracting to you , well , deal with it . It 's a classroom , not a funeral , and you are a professional . Take a breath and get back to teaching . If you see a particular student leaving often : Have a private word with them to see if things are okay . They may have special circumstances that you do n't know about ( chronic illness is one distinct possibility ) . Once you know their situation , you may be able to offer specific suggestions that will reduce the disruption and/or get them more engaged in the class . If , after talking to them , you are convinced they are just walking out from spite , and they wo n't stop : Follow your institution 's policy on disruptive students . Your department chair should have further guidance . It may ultimately be necessary to drop them from the class . A short break in the middle of a 75-minute class is a reasonable idea , but I would keep it very short : perhaps 1-2 minutes , enough to stand up and stretch , not more . It should not significantly reduce the amount of time students spend on task . ( Otherwise , as mentioned above , you may encounter problems with your institution 's authorities that your class does not provide as much instructional time as promised by its number of credit hours . Moreover , some students will see it as wasted time and resent it . ) Better yet , break up the lecture with some other sort of productive activity ( small group discussions , problem solving , etc ) . I do n't think it 's appropriate to publicly shame students for poor etiquette , or shut them out of class if they leave . You will unfairly punish students who legitimately need to step out for a few minutes , and anyone who is doing it from spite or boredom will just be further alienated .
Your question has two components : 1 ) Whether to write out the number as a numeral or in words , and 2 ) whether to indicate " dollars " in words or with a symbol . I did not find a direct answer or example in the manual , but a discussion on the APA style blog may provide some guidance : <URL> To address issue one , look at the question in the comments sectiom ( comment # 7 from the top ) where a student asks about the proper way to write about an approximate number of people . The author of the style post states that the correct answer is " Almost 3,000,000 people . " She provides the explanation that because 3,000,000 is larger than 10 , is should be written as a numeral . She does not comment on the issue of this being an approximate amount , but because the question is about an approximate number of people , it seems she interprets the exception to rule 4.31 e as only pertaining to the units of time listed in the exception . Also , note that in the body of the blog post , the author refers to approximate units of time rather than approximate numbers in general . To address issue two , look further in the comments section , at the bottom two comments on the page . Here , someone asks how to write about an amount of money that is less than $ 10 . The author notes that in prose , she would recommend writing out the word " dollars , " while in tables or with mathematical operators , it might be more appropriate to use the symbol ( referring to rule 4.45 about describing statistics in text ) . In sum , this discussion seems to indicate that " I have about 5,000,000 dollars " would be the correct form . The number would be written in numerical form because a ) it is over 10 and b ) it is not an approximate amount of time . The unit of money ( " dollars " ) would be written in prose text and appear as a symbol on tables or when discussing mathematical operations .
It depends on the program , but if no requirement is set , I would go for about 500 words . That 's about two pages double-spaced . You want to be to the point in these essays . Too much rambling may turn the reader off . I never turn anything in single-space . Double-spaced documents help for readability . It 's up to you , but I suggest double-spacing .
end question
start question
Advisor tries to reproduce my results to ensure my honesty . Is it the norm ?
As many have pointed out in the comments ( Nate Eldredge , Dan Romik , Per Alexandersson , etc. ) , the point is not to catch you cheating ( as if you were intentionally trying to manipulate your results ) , but rather to verify your process of obtaining such results . We all should be so lucky as to have an adviser take the time out of his/her schedule to verify our processes . I would also like to add that -- and this assumes your thesis could/will lead to an academic publication at a journal or conference -- that your adviser 's reputation is potentially on the line by attaching his/her name to such a document . In other words , by becoming a co-author on your [ future ] publication , your adviser is essentially saying , " Yes , I helped work on this , and I am sure of the methods and the results contained within . " The bottom line ( tl ; dr ) is that you should n't take this as a personal attack . You should be thankful to have someone who can invest the amount of time necessary to ensure the correctness of the work you 've done .
Your acknowledgement is a place where you are free to thank anyone or anything ( I have seen dogs being thanked ) you think deserve mentioning . To acknowledge StackExchange is highly appropriate since it is a community driven open site where help can be obtained to solve problems from many different perspectives . In my PhD thesis , I , perhaps a bit over-ambitiously , thanked Donald Knuth for creating TeX. . Had StackExchange been in existence back then , some of the terror of writing my thesis in plain TeX would have been eased and it would have been placed along-side Knuth in the acknowledgement .
Supervisors are employees just like everyone else . They have duties ( to supervise you ) , and they have vacations and business trips . Both vacations and business trips ( conferences , field trips , probably archive work in your line ) will be more common during summer . Specifically for academia , many people will use summer to spend more time working from home while they do n't have to give lectures , but they may designate certain days when they are in the office , specifically to meet with everyone on a single day . That said , I see no reason whatsoever why email contact should decrease during summer , of course except for known vacation or trip periods , where everyone can agree that emails may take a little longer to be answered . Face-to-face contact is also important , but given that many people will spend more time at home , there is a case to be made that you may not meet quite as frequently with your advisor during summer , even after accounting for vacations/trips . Nevertheless , I see no reason why a request for email contact and ( possibly somewhat less frequent ) face-to-face meetings should be unreasonable . It would of course be optimal to work out a schedule before summer , taking vacations etc. into account . " I 'll check in every day with a short email , and I understand if you reply later to email questions . Could we set up at least some face-to-face meetings , perhaps not every week as during the semester , but every other week , except for the week you are at a conference ? " After all , your supervisor will be just as interested in hearing from you and knowing that you do n't spend all of summer at the beach ...
Here 's a way of approaching the ethical aspect of this : how important would it be for you , if you were in the middle of your degree , that a recent grad 's files were left in a big mess ? Would that affect the finances of the group , because of the files eating up a lot of storage space ? Would your work be more difficult or time consuming , with needed files being hard to find ? Would you have to take some time away from studies and research in order to try to put the recent grad 's files in order , for the good of the group ? Would it be difficult for another member of the group to figure out what was what , in the recent grad 's absence ? I wonder if you could ask for payment for at least part of the extra time you 'd be putting in .
If you write GPA : 3.5 in your CV , this implies that your official cumulative GPA as per university records is a 3.5 . So to write this is misleading , and unethical . If you want to list your GPA only for courses in your own department , you can write Major GPA : 3.5 or 3.5 GPA in physical science courses
You ask about " stick together " . This is probably not an ideal idea . Generally , in a conference , you want freedom of action . Going with your mother may induce you to " talk to the known " person whenever you are unsure ; i.e. you talk to her whenever you are not sure how to approach people - the notorious " escape route " - but this is exactly what conferences are not for . When I went to my first conference , I made a point to talk to as many people as I could . At the beginning , it is quite a leap of faith . But later you find , it is fun , you get to know people , and you get to know new research directions and ideas . Sometimes it feels difficult , but remember : all you people have one thing in common - the topic of the conference . You are very unlikely to go wrong starting a conversation about that . If you are unsure how to start , start with people which look like they are alone at the conference , and probably a bit lost . They will be grateful to get somebody to talk to ; you may meet interesting colleagues ( do n't think that , because they are alone , they are not good scientists - good scientists may not be good at socialising ) , and notch up a good deed , to boot . It is fine to take your mother to social events and the like , but I recommend that , if she joins the conference , say , because she is interested , that she stays mostly in the background and does not send signals of " supervision " to others or - even more importantly - to you . If you can keep that balance , then , by all means , bring her with you .
IMHO it depends on why you want to make it available . If your primary reason is that you want to make information available more publicly , you could produce a " revised edition " of the thesis and add a preface stating that this is a substantially revised and edited version of your thesis - just like other books do . If you just correct typos and grammar , just say that . There is also the possibility to comment on the conclusions you do n't see like that any more in a way ( formatting , footnote ) that makes clear that this is a point where your opinion now differs . ( like a commented edition of some work ) . If your primary reason is to give the text your online CV refers to , then leave it unchanged .
At many ( most ? all ? ) universities , a committee is required to have at least one professor from outside the department ( other than the chair , if the chair holds a joint position ) . Other requirements are to have at least one professor at rank higher or equal to the rank of the chair ( the advisor ) .
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
" I contacted the communications department via e-mail and asked if it is illegal and/or unethical to apply . Response said that company employees can apply , which means , I can apply . " I think that answers the ethics about it as well . As long as you are open about the fact that you are a company employee , there is no scope for you to violate any ethics . Any possible violation ( which I do n't think there are any ) would be in the company 's hands . Think about this - why is the company offering a scholarship ? They probably want the recipient to graduate and then work for the company . Thus by attracting top students to apply for an attractive scholarship , they gain a highly skilled and motivated employee . Sure , the fact that you already work for them might give you an advantage in the application process . But this is a private company giving out privately earned funding . They should be able to pay whomever they choose , for whatever reason . In the end , there is really little difference between this , and an internal hire .
I agree with all of @Nate Eldredge 's comments . If you have a good relationship with your advisor , you should be able to say " This paper lies outside of my field of expertise . I do n't feel qualified to review it ; in fact , even to understand it at a basic level would require me to spend substantial time familiarizing myself with the terminology of a different academic field . " According to your comments , you do not feel comfortable saying this to your advisor . So here is what I would suggest instead : do the reviewing together with your advisor , in person . So for instance you could begin by saying " I started reading the paper you assigned me , and I have some questions I 'd like to discuss with you . When can we meet to talk about it ? " Then when you meet you can begin to engage with all the unfamiliar stuff and see for yourself how far away it really is from your interests and those of your advisor . If it turns out that your advisor does n't understand the paper either , I would try to subtly lead him to the conclusion that neither of you should be reviewing it . If he tries to shove it onto you , reiterate that you are doing it but that you want to get his input . If necessary , ask a question of the form " How would you handle this review job if you were in my place ? " The point being that the advisor is in your place since he is the one who has been asked to do the reviewing . To pull this off properly may require some verbal aikido . The worst case scenario is that after all this your advisor makes clear to you that he does n't care that neither of your have the expertise to review this paper ; he wants you to do it anyway . At that point he is asking you to commit academic dishonesty , and you will be in a tough spot : you will have to decide whether turning in a noncommittal review of a paper that you do n't understand is the least evil .
Yes . Talk to your advisor . It is really important you learn to , in a good way , think of yourself . Right now , the undergraduates are happy ( they get help ) but your work is suffering . I can imagine that helping undergraduates is part of your job description , but not to the point you can not work anymore yourself . You need to sit down with your professor and your supervisor and discuss that your undergraduate workload is too much . Best is to have a proposal ready yourself , e.g. that you want to spend a day a week helping undergraduates and that that is the limit . Once you get both your professor and your supervisor to agree , no undergraduate can manipulate you into helping him/her . In addition , everyone is clear on their expectations , this is the professional way of dealing with this in my opinion . If you do not set boundaries , you will be the only one suffering . The professor and supervisor will feel somewhat bad , but the undergraduates will find a new person to stalk , while you are left without a PhD .
Extrapolating from the very few cases that I 've seen , I think you 'll need an official adviser at the school where you 're actually enrolled . If it 's OK with that adviser , then you could also have a " real " adviser elsewhere , on an unofficial basis . Your school may have some paperwork to be completed if your real adviser is to serve as a member of your official thesis committee .
Evaluations only tell you whether your students liked you or not . Your main goal , however , is to have students learn the material and develop their intellectual skills , not to have them like you . Have experienced colleagues sit in on your classes and give you feedback , and have colleagues look at your assessments and the students ' performance on them ( with appropriate attention given to how you prepared the students - at an extreme , assessments mean something different ( but not nothing ) if you 've given the students the questions and answers in advance ! ) . This will give you much more useful information than student evaluations .
Only your school and your department and your group can tell you what their expectations are . Ask them . But face-to-face networking with others is hugely valuable both for your current tasks and for being aware of new opportunities , , and think carefully before you give that up . I 've been working from home for about 5 years now ( commercial , not academic ) , and it has definitely cost me in terms of career progress despite my making deliberate efforts to stay in the loop .
I would n't find it okay if someone would come to my house because of that . Work and personal life should be separate and it would be inappropriate to visit the supervisor there . Does he not have an office ? If nobody can tell you where to find him , then you should call him or write an email and ask for an appointment .
I do n't enjoy lecturing either and yet my student reviews ask for more lectures even if I prefer discussion . What I 've done for some classes is prepare a portfolio of 15 minute mini-lectures that are on one specific point , targeted , succint , and within the attention span ( maybe ) of 18 year olds . You might also want to create a similar grab bag of canned material so that when a particular topic arises , you can easily lecture on it . Otherwise , the only other way is to practice . I 've realized my own aversion to lecturing is something I need to work more on , so I deliberately designed a large lecture course that was 100 % lecturing , rather than the smaller seminar courses that I prefer .
No ! Unless you uploaded a copy of your submitted paper to public preprint server like PeerJ Preprints , ArXiv or BioRxiv . If you uploaded a public preprint you can add that to your ORCID profile . Extra note : About your published works , as you know , you can add your publications from any publisher to your ORCID profile ( after you sign-in to your ORCID account ) by clicking on " Add Works " . More information is given here : <URL> I 'd recommend the CrossRef Metadata Search as often the easiest method of importing one 's publications , provided those publications have a registered DOI .
No . Unpublished work is unpublished . It 's almost as if it does n't exist . Given that it is your work , there is no case of plagiarism . I do n't even think you need to cite yourself -- what would you actually be citing ? Indeed , how would you prove that you plagiarised yourself ? If your unpublished work has been circulated among other authors and has been cited by them , maybe you can cite it too . But that seems a bit odd .
Not at all . You are not committed to doing your PhD with the same advisor . Even if you did want to work with the same advisor , he/she should encourage that you talk to others to hear out their ideas . I highly doubt your advisor would be offended to hear that you were interested in speaking to other professors about their research interests . After all , a PhD is a long road , and you need to be really happy with your advisor , and your work , to survive it . In fact , I think it looks positive , even to your advisor , knowing that you have multiple options . I once had a job interview where , upon disclosing that I was also interviewing at other places , that " they would be worried if I was n't " .
end question
start question
How do I comment the code I wrote for a course I am lecturing in ?
This is not a standard , but these are some considerations that have helped me : If I give code for students I take special care to be consistent ( I am not always successful ) . Students tend to find inconsistencies and think there must be a reason for that and start looking for reasons where none exist . I also consider the purpose of the snippet : is it an example of best practice or an illustration of how such code works . In the former case I would be less verbose with my comments then in the latter case . Sometimes it helps to have a list of trivial tricks separate from the example code . <URL> is an example I have used . This can be an alternative to commenting tricks in your code that are not central to the point you want to make with that example .
The best way to do it , in my experience , is to write . Every single journal I 've been asked to review things for ( with the exception of one done as a favor ) was born of a request by an editor to review a paper in an area where I might be considered an " expert " - because I had a publication , and a decently received one , in that topic area . Once you get an invitation or two , accept them and as importantly make your reviews useful and timely . Establishing yourself in an editor 's mind as someone who gets their reviews back , and gets them back on time ( or communicates when they are n't able to do that ) ca n't do anything but help in ensuring that you 'll get similar requests in the future .
Talk to the course coordinator immediately and coordinate your next steps . Apparently , there was a serious breakdown in communication , and the course coordinator did n't provide any guidelines whatsoever suggests to me that you are not the only one to blame . Whatever your next steps will be , they need to be aligned with the coordinator and his expectations . You may be able to extend deadlines , adjust grading rubrics or something else . Next time , make sure you know what the coordinator wants . ( And the coordinator should make sure , too . )
The true anonymity of " anonymous evaluations " is a key issue ( in academia and also in the workplace ) . If you say an evaluation is anonymous , can you later take them to task for something they wrote that you regard as problematic ? This happened at my university a few years back . Student course evaluations are done electronically now , and they are said to be anonymous . However , one student " contributed " an anonymous evaluation which criticized their instructor for their sexual orientation . The university IT staff got involved , did in fact trace the evaluation back to the student , and the student was prosecuted for it . In particular , IIRC their name was made public ( I read about this in the university paper ! ) and they may have had to write a letter of apology . This is a good problem for an ethics class : should the university have done this ? After reflecting about it for a while , my feeling is that the university did behave unethically : not by tracking down a comment that violates rules of university conduct ( not to mention the rules and conventions of civilized society about treatment of minority ) , but by not being open with the students that the anonymity in the evaluations was meant as a policy decision , not a factual description of the way the technology is implemented . They could have designed the system so that university IT staff would have no way -- or at least , no standard , built-in way -- of tracking it back to its origin . Anyway : yes , it is probably technically possible that the evaluation can be traced back to you . The moral of the above story is that unless you specifically know and trust the mechanisms that prevent that , you should regard the anonymity as being at the level of policy -- i.e. , you are honorbound not to act on the knowledge of the identity -- rather than a true lack of knowledge of the writer 's identity . As for the rest , you ask : Do you think I will lose my job over it ? Maybe another dumb question , but I 'm stressing right now . That does n't sound like a dumb question for you . However , in my opinion it 's " a dumb question " ( rather , an unfruitful one ) to ask us . We do n't know : Who you are , and what are the conditions of your employment . Where you work , and who your colleagues are . What you wrote . Without this information , our best guess at the answer is nowhere near as good as yours . I understand that because of your closeness to the situation and reasonable anxiety , it may be hard for you to view objectively . I suggest that you confide in someone you can trust and who is closer to the situation . @Trevor Wilson asked : Was it this case : nytimes.com/2008/01/20/magazine/20wwln-ethicist-t.html ? If so , it sounds like the evaluation was handwritten . Nice find ! I checked it out a bit , and ... I think it is likely that this is the same case , and that it was long enough ago ( longer than I thought ) that I am not quite remembering the particulars . It is also interesting that this made " Ask an Ethicist " ... and the Ethicist said very much what I said above . Adding to the irony , I suppose I am now criticizing my university a bit by weighing in on this . I think they can take it .
You want your reader to be able to figure out what 's in the paper without reading through all the technical details , and then going through the trouble of synthesizing what you 've written to figure out the what the paper means . If you want your paper to have any impact at all , you need to put an executive summary somewhere in it . Whether you put all the details of the summary at the end of the introduction , or put a less detailed summary in the introduction , and expand on the details at the beginning of each section may depend on the author and/or the field . It may be that in your field , people expect summaries at the end/beginning of each section , and will look for them there . But if you 're careful about what you say and how you say it , you do n't need to repeat details from the introduction at the beginnings of the section , so putting the summaries at the beginning/end of the sections should n't use much extra space .
In order to cite a programming language , a possible way is to cite the reference manual , including the version of the language you use ( your approach might no longer work with the version of Python available in 20 years ... ) . For instance , you can have a citation like : Python Software Foundation . Python Language Reference , version 2.7 . Available at <URL> According to <URL> , you can also cite the original CWI TR : " G. van Rossum , Python tutorial , Technical Report CS-R9526 , Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica ( CWI ) , Amsterdam , May 1995 . "
I agree with JeffE 's comment -- this is an opportunity to show fantastic improvement , which looks great in a letter . If the improvement really was because of " serendipitous success , " it seems that it would be difficult to sustain , unless it happens that the groundbreaking work was so monumental that it is prize-worthy ( and even then , <URL> ) . If I 'm writing a positive letter ( which is almost always the case -- I 'll try to convince a student that I 'm not the correct person if I feel I wo n't be able to justify a strong letter ) , my goal is to convince the letter-reader that I 'd hire/accept the person now , and why . Something like the following might fit this case : I have been particularly impressed by X 's recent work on her project , Nuclear Powered Time Travel via a Modified Consumer Vehicle . Despite a frustrating set of circumstances that returned limited results in the early stages of the project , her hard work and persistence led to a breakthrough that she is currently preparing for submission to The Twin Paradox Journal , and will undoubtedly lead to further successful results . Specifically , she was finally able to properly shield the flux-capacitor plutonium containment compartment in her design , reducing temporal errors by 99 % and leading to far greater box office returns . If the student 's previous attitude , or struggles do n't put her in a particularly good light , do n't include them explicitly . Again , it goes back to would I hire or accept the student now ? If you believe that by not including the specifics you 're not being honest , then maybe you would n't feel comfortable with such a positive letter anyway .
First thing : the exact format will depend on the styleguide your are following . However , apart from variations in the exact formatting , just refer to it exactly as you do . The US constitution , for example , would be cited <URL> : U.S. Const . art . I ,  3 . U.S. Const . amend . XIX . U.S. Const . amend . XVIII ( repealed 1933 ) . depending on whether you cite an article from the original constitution , or a ( possibly since-repealed ) amendment . Somewhat tongue-in-cheek edit : I could not find a DOI ( Digital Object Identifier ) for the constitution of Montenegro ( nor for the US constitution , for that matter ) . If you find one , you might want to include it in your citation ( in the form of a hyperlink ) . If it does not exist , you may petition the Montenegrin government to create one .
You can call it a " preprint " if it is ready to circulate , or say that it is " in preparation " if you are working on it but it 's not done yet . ( The difference is whether you would be willing to give interested people a copy now , or whether you would ask them to wait until it 's done . ) Do n't call it " submitted " if that 's not actually true , even if you think it will be submitted by the time anyone sees the reference . Getting caught in even a minor lie can hurt your reputation for honesty , and there are any number of ways something could go wrong in the process of finishing and submitting the paper .
As others have said , not every ( old ) article has a DOI or a URL . However , in mathematics every article since 1940 has an MR number which uniquely identifies it . So go to <URL> and look up this article . I just did , it has MR number MR0844292 . The bibliographical information on mathscinet ( like the transliteration of the author 's name ) would also be considered the " canonical information " .
No , but make sure you cite it and mention it , to avoid being accused of copying and pasting from Wikipedia . In any case , it is great that you have contributed to Wikipedia and I wish more people considered using pieces of their introductory chapters for Wikipedia . Just make sure that people know that you copied to , not from , Wikipedia . ( I mean , the order is irrelevant , i.e. whether you first wrote text for Wikipedia or your thesis , but the authorship is . )
Unlike employers in industry , I believe that graduate admissions committees do n't care if there are gaps , irrelevant work experience , or changes of direction in your employment . Their sole concern are your credentials and capabilities to do academic work . You should focus all your attention on communicating your skills and capabilities to do Masters-level Computer Science work . This includes your course grades as an undergrad , your GRE scores , your computer experience in industry , your recommendation letters , and your engagement with professional and academic communities . ( Business schools are probably an exception to this . Work history is probably important to getting accepted in an MBA program . )
In order to answer your question , let me explain my view of copy editing and typesetting In my field , after an article is accepted it is copy edited and then typeset . The role of the copy editor is to check for consistencies with the journal style , find grammatical and typographical errors , and provide guidance to the typesetter . The copy editor often produces a short list of " author queries " where the copy editor has found " inconsistencies " ( often unused references or undefined abbreviations ) . Generally I receive a copy of the double-spaced manuscript with the copy editors markup and the typeset article . We are then expected to make sure the typeset manuscript is " correct " . I do n't think there is a difference in prestige between copy editor and typesetter , they are really different roles ( or different perspectives of the similar roles ) . You say in your comments that you do not like the title , I would talk to the publisher/editor-in-chief about changing it . You can either approach this from a graphic design vantage ( the list will look better ) or from a professional prospective ( I edit I do n't do graphic design ) . The key is you need to know what you want to be called .
In this case , you should let your advisor know , because the time spent in the classroom is time not spent in the lab . Since he 's paying you for your time , if you will be doing daytime activities that will take time away from research he has a right to know about it . On a different note , depending on how auditing works in your university , there may be costs associated with your auditing the course , and he ( or his grant ) would be covering these costs . Generally speaking , the more communication between you and your advisor , the better .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
The important distinction to make here is between : Intellectual contributions to the actual research/science . Technical help . Contributions of the first kind are -- roughly speaking -- what warrants authorship or , if the contribution is already published , a citation . With other words : If the contribution would warrant authorship if unpublished , it has to be cited . As already stated , this is somewhat simplified and distinguishing between when to cite and when to include as an author can sometimes be tricky , but it should give you a rough idea , as to what you have to cite . Also note that there are other reasons for citing , such as context embedding , which do not apply here , however . Two lines of code ( to take this example ) almost always fall under contributions of the second kind : They help you with the tools you need to use for your research but not with the actual subject of your research . It 's roughly comparable to the contribution of somebody fixing the microscope you need for some biological research . Of course , it might be a very helpful contribution that saved you months of work ( in which case you should consider mentioning it in the acknowledgments ) , but it 's not a scientific contribution . However , the decision may not always be that easy . Apart from the aformentioned authorship criterion ( also note the <URL> tag on this site for this ) , asking yourself the following questions might help to solve the question : Is the kind of contribution to your work fundamentally different from : designing the programming language you used , designing or building your CPU , designing or building your microscope ? If yes , consider citing . Does the contribution affect the results of your research or is it necessary for others to reproduce your research ? By results I here mean something like : The 666th digit of  is 6 . The proposed algorithm outperforms the current standard method . and not : I managed to compute the results before the deadline . Unfortunately , the results do not make any sense , probably due to some bug . If yes , then you should consider citing . If , on the other hand , you have good reason to assume that somebody implementing your solution in a totally different programming language or calculating everything with pen and paper would arrive at the same results , then you should not cite . Contributions of the second kind are what , amongst others , you can put in your acknowledgements , where in a thesis it 's usually up to you , who and how many people you mention .
As I understand it , " reapply " is merely a technical term in mathjobs and this should cause no problems . See , for example , the statement " Update ( re-apply ) applications as many times as you like , or whenever you have new info to add " in <URL> . I do n't know why mathjobs uses the term " reapply , " which certainly has the potential to cause confusion . I ca n't guarantee that nobody will hold it against you , but I 'd be very surprised if anyone did ( and I think it would be a big mistake on their part ) . Updating your application may not be enough if it has already been read . I 'd recommend also e-mailing key people you would like to work with to let them know about your new paper once it is on the arXiv . Of course you should n't spam large numbers of people , but sending out an announcement is perfectly appropriate if you restrict it to people who would genuinely like to hear about the paper for mathematical reasons , and not just as an advertisement for hiring you .
At least I would not discourage anyone from sitting through a course again . The notion that one has permanent and total recall of almost anything is untenable : one must review and rethink ( or use ) periodically , or things fade away from disuse . For that matter , there are usually several layers of understanding/appreciation , and getting to the subtler ones takes time and ( re - ) thought . Perhaps you 'll be better off than others who got their grades and do n't even realize that they 'd benefit from re-thinking the material .
That is an ambiguous enough statement from the author about licensing , that I would simply send them an email and ask what they would allow . You can make your decision on whether to use it after you know whether you can . I would also ask your advisor if this kind of work is acceptable for your project . If the project requires more self-work , you need to know that before you use too much of this code . Finally , if you do use it , do n't forget to cite it .
Ask for the code . Please do , however , explain why you want it and what you intend to use it for . Personally , I would be quite happy if someone contacted me about my research , and would try to give all the necessary tools to recreate my data . Especially so if I am not currently working on a follow up piece . That said , I 've asked for parameters , codes , procedures etc. several times from the authors when the description in a paper has been vague . I 've had a lot of different responses : Some have plain ignored me , others have given me everything I asked for , and yet others have only obliged when I 've suggested that I might be willing to put them as co-authors if I built upon their code in a way that leads to a publication . Finally , some have refused my request . This has happened for a number of reasons , for example those discussed in <URL> . If you ask for code and say that you just want to verify some of the conclusions of the authors or use it as a reference for your own implementation , you can most typically expect a refusal or no reply . This , at least , is the experience I 've had .
end question
start question
How to cite a book that has appeared in multiple versions/editions over the years ?
You cite precisely the version that you use and add something like " 5th edition " ( that is what the " edition " - entry is there for in BibTeX ) . Be careful to use the correct year !
I suppose the easiest way would be to use the command in LaTeX . Put something like this before your : Use it as follows . If you want to change the reference to a citation or another format , you can replace the contents of the As far as to " What is the best way to cite a website URL ? " the answer generally is that there is n't a standard . Personally , I use web sites as a citation if it contributes some kind of important intellectual argument to the paper . If I use web sites as a footnote , it 's because it has to do with some kind of tool I used and is there simply to inform the user that I used Tool XYZ . Using your example , if I said in my paper , " We used the Google search engine to identify evidence of bias in search engine results " I 'd probably put that as a footnote , whereas if I said , " Company web sites from Google , Microsoft , and Apple about employment all state that having fun at work is important " may be citations . ( I should finally note that this is a personal convention rather than anything spelled out in a styleguide , but maybe it helps you ? ) .
High-tech engineering companies , for one . A friend of mine works at a small system-on-a-chip designer company , and they supply highly specialized chip designs to other businesses which utilize embedded systems -- think leading automotive , aerospace , consumer electronics OEMs . The company is small and every engineering employee has at least a MSc , most of them have PhDs or higher ( that would be associate professors and professors ) . Another example is automotive R&amp;D -- mechanical engineering . Companies are financing new development of new methodologies in product development -- particularly structural optimization , design automation , manufacturing process simulations . Virtual prototyping is the name of the game for top manufacturers currently , and the demand for highly-skilled experts is great , even in these uncertain economic times . In the country where I study , PhD projects are financed jointly by interested private companies as well as research organizations , and the companies have a vested interest to receive not only the direct results from the research , but also trained individuals that can integrate the research outcomes into their product development or manufacturing process . Obviously YMMV by country and research field . PhDs in in mostly theoretical projects might have harder time finding a good position after graduating , while hands-on graduates whose projects were conducted in collaboration with industrial partners are much more likely to secure a senior technical position even before their dissertation .
I have a confession to make : some of my citations use fake page numbers . Why do I do this ? Because sometimes there just are n't any page numbers or I can not find the page numbers for a document with any reasonable amount of searching . This happens especially often to me with computer science papers , where some venues just do n't bother . Online journals also often have unusual approaches to page numbering , sometimes giving a DOI-like token rather than a number . In other cases , such as some book chapters , there are page numbers , but the versions accessible online are n't marked with them . My preference in these cases is simply to omit the page numbers : citations are about information accessibility , and if the page numbers are n't a meaningful part of accessing that information , then I see no point in trying to fit the citation onto that particular <URL> . Occasionally , though , a journal with a particularly zealous and inflexible copyeditor will force me to add page numbers to things that do n't have page numbers , and that is when I use fake page numbers , simply numbering an N-page document as pages 1-N . Bottom line : do n't sweat the page numbers , much less the volume number .
You do n't typically cite material that helps you understand a topic . You cite material that you explicitly use in a paper . So source books like a C++ book do n't need to be cited unless you 're using an unusual and explicit construction mentioned in one of those books . For example , there 's a technique to draw a geometric object using GPUs that was first mentioned in an graphics programming textbook : people using the technique will cite that textbook . Wikipedia is not supposed to be a repository of original material , so if you found something on wikipedia then there 's likely to be an original source that Wikipedia should cite and that you should as well ( once you verify it ) . For a website it 's a similar principle . If the website contains code that you 're using , then cite it ( or better yet , cite the associated material that the code authors might suggest you cite instead ) . But if the website merely contains expository material that helps understanding , then you do n't cite it .
The ASCII standard is set out in <URL> , so you should cite it directly .
You seem ( at least in your question ) to have skipped over a middle option : as a PHD student in computer science at an American university , it is likely that with no additional paperwork you can enroll in graduate courses in the statistics department . ( As with all things academic , it would be good to run this past your supervisor , but as long as you can explain ( i ) why you think it will be useful to you and ( ii ) why it will not significantly impede the progress on whatever else you are supposed to be doing , s/he ought to be supportive of it . If the statistics coursework is directly relevant to your thesis research , s/he ought to be enthusiastic , even . ) You can then take exactly the courses to develop the knowledge and skills you need . I do n't know your situation , but it seems very unlikely that what you want to learn will coincide precisely with the set of requirements for a master 's degree in statistics . And in terms of your credentials : unless you are looking for a post-PhD position specifically in statistics , given that you already have one master 's degree and are going for a PhD , I do n't see a second master 's degree in statistics as having much value to you . ( Even then , unless your career goal is to be some kind of adjunct lecturer in a statistics department , a second master 's degree is not guaranteed to be directly helpful : if you have specific career goals then you should ask around as to what credentials best help you achieve these goals . ) As to the value of the coursework itself versus the time for your CS research : Suresh 's comment is the best answer that I can think of to that . You 're right ; there are pros and cons to be weighed against each other . We ca n't do that for you nearly as well as you can do it for yourself . Your supervisor is the natural person to go to for some additional insight , but in my opinion the final decision is really yours .
You cite the original title , for the very reason you gave : to enable readers to find the original title . If your work is subject to guidelines , you should also check those . Usually , there is no point in giving a translation of the title as it does not contain any relevant information for the reader . Many citation styles do not mention the title of papers at all . I see two exceptions though : If a translation of the cited work into English exists ( but you worked with the French original ) , you can mention it in addition to the French title , e.g. with : [ actual citation ] ( translated into English under the title [ translated title ] ) If the title allows the reader to estimate what the source contains and whether they want to read it at all . In this case , you should arguably change your text such that it states in what way the citation is relevant for your work .
If this section of the thesis contains only the translated passage , then it is silly to use one of the quotation notifiers . As I said in my comment , preface the whole section with a notice about the origin of the passage . Then , present the passage unaltered ( except for the translation ) . The contents of that notice will depend on which of the following categories the original passage falls into : Public domain The original passage is in the public domain ( for example if it was written by a government employee in the course of their normal duties or if the author released into the public domain or if the passage is old enough that any possible copyright has expired ) - then say something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without any further alterations from ( original source ) . This passage is in the public domain ( rationale if possible ) . Fair Use Since a thesis is a document created in the course of obtaining an education , you can claim fair use for educational purposes . The passage represents less than the fair use maximum set for the original document ( typically around 5 % or less of the original work ) , then you can state something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without permission and without any further alterations from ( original source ) . Since this passage represents a minimal part of the original document , it constitutes fair use . Public License The creator of the document could have released the document under a license that allows reuse for non-profit purposes with appropriate attribution . See <URL> and <URL> . Licenses like these generally allow you to reproduce the work if you include the appropriate statement . Make sure the license allows derivative works ( because that is what your translation is ) . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) under the <URL> . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . Express permission If you have obtained written permission from the copyright holder to reproduce the work in your thesis , then you would state something like the following . You should include the evidence of written permission in your appendix . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) with permission of the copyright holder . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . None of the above Without permission , a license , fair use , or public domain , you are violating copyright by reproducing the passage , even if you translated it ( translations count as derivative works , which are still a no-no ) . Get the appropriate permissions or reduce the length of the passage so that it becomes fair use and see above . US Copyright Note that this answer primarily to <URL> , with which I am most familiar . The copyright laws in other nations , as well as international copyright law , will vary , but many have similar provisions . However , some parts of my answer will be inapplicable in some countries . In these cases , behave as if the material is copyrighted . The concepts of public domain , copyright , and license are fairly similar in most places . Generally , the existence of a license supersedes copyright , with the exception that a license can not supersede the public domain status of a work . Fair use may not exist in all jurisdictions . If you are unsure whether your nation has a fair use or similar exception in its copyright law , act as if it does n't . Better safe than sorry .
The editor of the press should have given you guidelines -- or even a response form to fill out . If they did n't , it 'd be simple enough to e-mail the editor back and ask him/her how detailed of a response is required . I personally vary the response length depending on how promising the book proposal is . If the proposal has a lot of merit but is undercooked in some areas , I may spend a considerable amount of time discussing what needs to be done . If the book is stellar and ready to leap onto the presses , then not much needs to be said . If the book is terrible because of severe methodological or analytical flaws , my review might be less than a page . If the ms is in severe need of proofreading or editing , I may respond with a just a paragraph noting this and suggesting that I 'll re-read when the ms is actually ready to be reviewed .
In order to answer this question , we need to define some magnitudes of errors . A small error does not affect the conclusions and if the manuscript was accepted as is could be fixed in the proof stage before the manuscript goes to press . A minor error does not affect the conclusions but requires too many changes to be made that it could not be fixed in the proof stage . A substantial error affects the conclusions and would require the manuscript to be re-reviewed . If you have found a substantial error , you need to contact the editor and request the manuscript be pulled from the review process . You do not want to waste the time of the editor and reviewers . A small error can either be ignored or reported to the editor if you think that the correction will help save the reviewers time . Minor errors are the real problem . There is no easy way to tell the editor/reviewer what is wrong , but an unclear manuscript is likely to get negative reviews . I would suggest contacting the editor and explaining and apologizing for the problem . The real question should be how did you find the error ? What are you doing looking at a manuscript after it has been submitted ?
Arguably the most complete resource would be the UNESCO 's <URL> , a database of translation from 1979 onward . There you should be able to search more easily , selecting desired language and inputting a keyword from the title or an author . There is also a list of references hosted by <URL> , which offers a few hard-copy guides for consultation , however these are more restricted by field ( mostly having to do with works of literature ) .
The relevant citation is provided in the <URL> . To cite in MLA7 : DiIulio , John J. , Jr. " My Black Crime Problem , and Ours . " City Journal , Spring 1996 : 14-28 . Print . Hope this answers your quesion .
First , note that a course on OOP is probably not the same as a course just on C++ . The C++ language was designed by Stroustrup to support the developer in multiple styles of programming , including OO . C++ today has become such a huge and complex language , moreover one for which which professional programming style has significantly evolved since the 98 standard . For example , its support for and take-up of functional programming has grown significantly . I 'm assuming you want to do well on the course , as opposed to simply learning skills . Now , it 's a long while since I 've had a look at Deitel and Deitel , and I ca n't say I 've good memories of it . However , hopefully the book is recommended because does take an approach supporting the OOP of the course and the subset of C++ you are expected to learn on the course . So go ahead and get the book . Having said that , if you really want to learn C++ itself well enough to be able to use it as a professional , be prepared to buy a few more books and put in a lot more work after you 've done this introductory course .
I do n't find such citations to citation counts very helpful in reading an article . Assuming such numbers are reasonably accurate , they only represent a snapshot of the popularity of a technique at the time you wrote your article . I would recommend simply saying that it is a popular technique and leaving it at that .
One word . Yes ! It is absolutely normal . I am a doctoral student in , what is arguably a top 5 CS department/top 5 HCI program in the USA . Although , I had a handful of publications before I started my doctoral program , my first " real " paper ( in a top flight venue ) with my adviser was published more than 2.5 years after I joined the program . I had published a couple of workshop papers/posters in those years with other graduate students but the acceptance rates for them , even in highly ranked conferences , are pretty high so that does n't really account for much . These had nothing to do with my dissertation but were just some side projects that we did . Most of my colleagues and friends/acquaintances in similar programs in similar universities were in similar situations in that time . It takes time to read literature , come up with a compelling and important research question , design a study/prototype/system / algorithm , write the paper and most importantly , get it published . Do not be disheartened . The quality of papers matter , not the quantity when it comes to being evaluated by search committees .
In your example , you are citing the chapter author 's work , not the work of the compiler/editor of the book as a whole . According to the APA Publication Manual , use the following reference format for this situation . Author , A.A. ( 1967 ) Title of chapter or entry . In A. Editor &amp; B. Editor ( Eds . ) , Title of book ( pp . xxx-xxx ) . Location : Publisher Of course , your intext citation would reference the chapter author too , not the book author/editor . The same general format holds for other reference styles as well .
Contrary to intuition , it is often inappropriate to try to cite well-known and foundational material to its original source . The reason is that you did not actually learn the material in its original form but instead from some modern reinterpretation of that material ( e.g. , in a standard textbook ) . To see why , try reading the original for something like <URL> . First of all , it 's in Latin . Even if you get a translation , however , you 'll find that the notation is strange and difficult to comprehend . That is because even though the fundaments of Newtonian physics have not changed in the centuries since it was discovered , we have improved greatly in our ability to understand and teach the material , as well as in how we integrate it with other material . In short : if it 's textbook material , it is most honest to cite a textbook as your source . Two modifying notes , however : It does n't have to be the textbook that you personally learned from -- any good presentation will do . You only need to cite a textbook if some of your audience may be unfamiliar with the material . In a computer science paper , the <URL> needs no citation ; in an interdisciplinary paper expected to be read by e.g. , economists or biologists , it does need a citation .
The challenge here is seems to be to ensure that if the reviewers do stumble across your thesis , then the failure mode will be penetrating blinding rather than accusations of plagiarism . It is my belief that with an " extract " paper like this , the thesis should be cited in any case . In most cases , there will be some connection to other portions of the thesis that could motivate such a citation ( e.g. , a motivation or an application ) . I also think that it is good to explicitly acknowledge the relationship to the thesis , e.g. , " This manuscript is based on work also presented in [ cite ] " , though the customs of your field may differ . Then you can appropriately blind the citation to the thesis , e.g. , " Ph.D. thesis , blinded for review . " This makes the relationship clear without violating blinding . At that point , you are preserving blinding to the best of your ability , and while a reviewer can certainly try to penetrate blinding if they want , you certainly wo n't run into any problems with misunderstanding about plagiarism .
In many fields , it is common practice to look up the original publication in which a concept/algorithm was introduced , and to cite that . Many courses will give some literature pointers to help you with the search for it . The reason is that citations are also meant to distribute credit for novel findings , so in this way , the researchers who came up with the algorithm get the credit .
end question
start question
Is there an open crowd-based peer-review tool ?
Besides <URL> , there is <URL> ; and there is also reddit.com . Reddit is most like SE in terms of user interaction , however they have some problems with quality control . It is " open " in the sense that anyone can offer material and make a comment ( review ) : it is " not entirely open " in the sense that authors and reviewers have the option of using a pseudonym , so real identities are usually not known . The other two sites are open in the latter sense , that authors and reviewers are openly identified ( as far as I can tell ) , but peerageofscience requires reviewers to " have published a peer reviewed scientific article in an established international journal , as first or corresponding author " , so it is closed to reviewers without that credential . ( I am not sure about peerevaluation but it does not seem to require any qualifications from reviewers though it does ask you to categorize yourself ) .
Diamond open access is like gold , in that the article is immediately open access in the journal , and nobody has to pay to read it . However , in gold open access , the author ( or their institution or funding agency ) normally has to pay a publication fee to get the article published . In diamond open access , they do n't have to pay , so the process is completely free of charges to both authors and readers . See <URL>
I think the best approach is to think of them as two completely separate papers . When you write the second paper you should write it as if you have read but not authored the first . You therefore need to add the necessary background and literature review to make it stand on its own . The reason for this is that anyone who finds your ( second ) paper once published will not necessarily know of the connection , may not have read the first , and will need a reasonable introduction to the subject . So , each paper should be an entity of its own . The only clear case where this may not be necessary is if you publish two papers back to back as part 1 and 2 of a series with the same main title but differing sub-titles . Then it is clear that the papers belong together and you may expect people to note and read both papers to a larger extent .
It is entirely appropriate to cite notable tools . How to cite , exactly , depends on the origin and nature of the tool . If the software is closely tied to a scientific work , then you should cite both the website and the key associated paper . The website will typically instruct you on the preferred paper to cite . If it is not tied to a paper , just cite the software . Authorship of software typically falls into three cases : A personal creation , by one or a few people : cite those people as authors , e.g. . <URL> is authored by Michael Mateas and Andrew Stern . A organization : cite the organization as author , e.g. , <URL> is by Sun Microsystems . An informally organized open source community : leave author blank or put " X Development Community " , as weight of authorship is unclear and set of authors is constantly in flux .
What you describe is , in my opinion , horribly unethical ! Yes , past performance is often a predictor of present performance , but there are so many other factors involved as well . What if a student did poorly before because of any number of reasons , but have since stepped up their work , caught up , and really mastered the material ? Or what if the student has been focusing heavily on this subject and has consequently fared more poorly in another subject ? It is manifestly stupid and counter to the entire notion of education to ignore good work by a student in one location simply because the student did bad work in another course or another time . Ethical violations are a different matter -- it is reasonable to be suspicious of a student with a history of cheating -- but grading a student poorly for having the audacity to exceed expectations is a rank betrayal of the most basic responsibilities of an educator .
It appears a number of factors come into this , such as what point proofreading should be done , familiarity with the text and length of time away from it . According to <URL> It is important also that editing [ proofreading ] be done at the appropriate stage of the writing process , that is , as the last step , after issues of organization , coherence , and flow have been addressed . In a study , <URL> , the authors Meredyth Daneman and Murray Stainton conducted the following experiments in which ; Subjects spent 30 minutes composing an essay on student life ; after a 20 minute interval ( Experiment 1 ) or a two week interval ( Experiment 2 ) they proofread their own essay , another subject 's essay after being familiarized on an error-free version of it , or another subject 's essay without the benefit of a preview . Experiment 1 showed that subjects were less able to detect errors ( e.g. , The best part of student like is socializing . ) in self-generated essays than in unfamiliar other-generated essays ; on the other hand , they were better able to detect errors in familiar other-generated essays that in unfamiliar ones . Experiment 2 showed that the disadvantage for proofreading self-generated text is likely a by-product of extreme familiarity rather than any special quality of self-generated knowledge per se Commenting on the above study , Maura Pilotti , and Martin Chodorow ( doi :10.1007 / s11145-007-9110-x ) state that ; The difficulty experienced by proofreaders with their own writing occurred even though the proofreaders were warned that errors had been added to their writing prior to proofreading . Interestingly , the impairment uncovered by Daneman and Stainton turned into an advantage after a delay of 2 weeks between writing and proofreading . The researchers argued that the '' excessive '' familiarity afforded by one 's own text , which is likely to decline over time , is detrimental to proofreading because it promotes a less thorough processing of written material . It would appear from the above that 20 minutes is too short a period , and that something like two weeks is more optimum , but if possible leave it as long as possible .
Book reviews , opinion pieces , and news articles are generally not peer reviewed . That 's not to say there 's no review at all : editors read and approve these contributions , and they may request changes before publication if they feel it is necessary . It 's even possible that an editor would ask for an opinion from a third party . However , peer review ( by an external expert ) is not a standard practice for these sorts of articles . Books are not peer reviewed in general . Books can be an intermediate case . Acquisitions editors often solicit external reviews of book proposals or manuscripts , to decide which ones to accept and how they should be revised . However , you are right that the level of review is generally not as comprehensive or detailed as it is for journal articles .
Following the acceptance of a paper , I would not make any changes that go beyond " editorial " -- that is , improving the grammar , or adding a recently published citation . These do not change the " technical " content of the paper . Anything where you make edits that change the actual research or results presented in the paper should be presented to the editors of the journal or conference in question , with a request for guidance . The individuals in charge can then make a determination whether or not additional peer review is required .
I think the difference is whether the Festschrift is its own book ( then the quality solely depends on the editors ) or in a renowned peer-reviewed journal ( who 'd have a reputation to loose with a bad special issue ) . And I 'd have a look what is the title and what the subtitle - the impression of " Festschrift for Big Guy " is entirely different from " Scientific Subject " subtitle " dedicated to Big Guy " or " collected in honor of Big Guy 's scientific work " . In my field , special issues of peer-reviewed journals about conferences or concentrating on a certain subject are common . The idea behind the conference issues is to ensure the normal peer-review process because conference proceedings have a bad reputation of no or no real review after the contribution is accepted ( by abstract only ) . To the point that many people do not submit conference proceedings because they see them as a complete waste of time . The indications I have are that the peer review process is up to the usual standard of the journal . If you look at <URL> of a special issue dedicated to Prof. Mantsch , you 'll see that the special issue consists of original research , there is n't even a review article in about the historical development of the field in that issue ( there is an editorial , though ) . Also , it is primarily a conference special issue , and this conference ( of a regular series ) also had the dedication ( which came out most at the conference dinner speech , not at the scientific sessions ) . Our paper had a two-line dedication before the abstract , and besides that it is a normal original research paper that underwent peer-review . I have not seen in my field a special issue that was primarily dedicated to someone and not primarily thematic with a dedication . ( thematic special issues ) : I do n't know whether the reviewers know that the paper is intended for the special issue , I never had a review to do that indicated anything of the sort . In my experience not only the normal quality but also the normal subject criteria apply . Sometimes , the invitation takes place only after the peer-review process is over : after the acceptance of a paper we were asked whether we 'd like it to be published in a special issue that was upcoming and where it thematically fit in . Sometimes , special issues are not filled by invitations , but the fact that a thematic special issue is planned , is circulated .
In the help page you link to , there are three relevant subheadings : For journals that publish only subscription articles ( snip ) For journals that publish only open access articles ( snip ) For journals that publish both subscription articles and open access articles : Adjustments in individual journal subscription list prices are made in the same way as for journals that publish only subscription articles . We do not count open access articles when setting subscription prices for titles . Subscription prices are therefore not affected by the volume of open access articles published in the journal . Adjustments in article publishing fees ( APCs ) are made in the same way as for articles that are published in journals that publish only open access articles . We do not count subscription articles when setting APC prices for articles . APC prices are therefore not affected by the volume of subscription articles published in the journal . The first two sections explain how Elsevier set subscription prices for subscription-only ( no OA ) journals , and publication fees for OA-only journals . The third section , on mixed OA/non-OA journals , refers to the previous two and explains How subscription prices are set , taking OA articles into account ( they are not counted in the calculation according to the first section ) How OA publication fees are set , taking subscriptions into account ( they are not counted in the calculation according to the second section ) Bottom line : the idea is not that you get a waiver for your subscription based on how many OA articles you ( or your school ) has published in the journal . Nor is it that you get a reduced OA publication fee based on subscribing to the journal ( yourself or through your school ) . Rather , everything is lumped together . It 's simply a mixed calculation .
I assume that there are often-if-not-always internal candidates for open positions , in academia and outside . There are always students looking for Ph.D. slots , Ph.D. students looking for postdoc positions , assistant and associate professors looking to move up to the next level . ( Same for non-faculty positions , but that seems OT . ) Sometimes the people responsible for the position may not even know yet about such internal candidates , because they may not yet have sent in their application . So the question probably rather is whether these internal candidates are already frontrunners . The professor may want his extremely productive Ph.D. student to continue in the postdoc slot but may need to advertise externally for some procedural reason . The department may want to continue a certain research specialization and plan on promoting the retiring professor 's assistant prof. In such a situation , external candidates will need to be very convincing to win . But : how often will the external candidate be told this ? If the external advertisement is legally required , the hiring people may even open themselves up to litigation if they openly tell an applicant that they are only soliciting outside applications as a fig leaf . On the other hand , the department may explicitly be searching for " new blood " , so internal candidates may actually have worse chances than external ones . Which , again , nobody will tell you ( or the internal candidate ) . Of course , it makes sense to tap your network and see whether the grapevine can tell you more than official channels . However , this kind of information can be unreliable . So if you hear from multiple sources that a given position will be filled internally , it may make sense to not make the effort . Thus : there will likely be internal candidates , but you will probably not know how good their chances are . If you are a good match for the position , go and apply . Do n't worry about internal candidates . This is one part of the hiring situation you ca n't control , just like the mood of your interviewers . Giving up on an application because there is an internal candidate will be counterproductive in the long run .
I think your first instinct is correct , it just needs a little bit of clarification in wording . I would suggest something like : Created by combining adaptations of Figure X from [ 3 ] , Figure Y from [ 6 ] , and Figure Z from [ 9 ] .
In this particular case Author of the framework you your advisor but that is strongly dependent on your local and institutions ' customs and practices . Ask your advisor informally . When still in doubt , always add yourself second to the first draft . If appropriate , your advisor will suggest moving you to first position , which is a lot less embarrasing than the other way around ( your advisor suggesting you should take your name down a notch )
I usually list a few examples and suggest editing by a native speaker/writer . If it 's really bad , I will do so as a request for major revision . I 've never had an editor complain about my doing it that way .
I use HG , but it is essentially the same as GIT , in that branching is easy . I branch all the time when working with coauthors . The branches tend to be short lived and merged pretty quickly . Basically , I distribute a copy to my coauthors and each set of comments I get back form different branches . This lets me see each authors comments individually . I then work on merging the comments back into the main trunk . Sometimes the merge is easy and the branch is one commit long . Other times it might take longer if I need to work out something ( e.g. , math , model , or analysis ) which might require a couple of revisions before it is ready to go into the main trunk .
The vast majority not a cent , of whatever currency ( see <URL> for exceptions ) . Peer reviewers are asked to volunteer , and they volunteer because they know that someone else would have to review their papers too ( as Dilworth points out in a comment there can be other motivations too ) . Said differently , peer reviewing is a mutual exchange , necessary for science to work ( though the peer review system has been sometimes criticized ) .
I think that it significantly depends on country and university , but , based on my kind of unfortunate experience , graduate schools very rarely use the Latin honors system ( with the exception of the JD degree and , less frequent , some other degrees - see below for an example ) . As a recent Ph.D. graduate with high GPA ( 3.94 , which usually corresponds to summa cum laude ) , I was wondering the same thing , while updating my CV and resume . I have asked someone at my program 's office , but the reply was that at our university the Latin honor system is used usually for undergraduate and , perhaps , for some medical degrees . The lady was polite and advised to inquire further at the program 's office . However , after reading <URL> and browsing some graduation-related documents on my university 's website , I have figured that further research is not worth spending my time , so I have just made sure that my CV and resume contain correct GPA numbers for all my degrees ( it is not as practical as the Latin honors terms , since those terms can be used in other contexts beyond the one of CV or resume ) . I hope this is helpful . NOTE . Here 's the information on grading and academic honors at some of the top MBA programs : <URL> . Note the total lack of graduation honors at Yale . Despite the existence of a variety of unique honors at some of the top schools , for the majority of the rest of graduate schools , the most common academic honor terms at the graduate level seem to be " with distinction " or similar , as mentioned by @RoboKaren .
Look at all the application rules and guidelines . Unless the registration/application is specifically described as first-come first-served ( which would be unusual ) , the date of submission does n't matter as long as the submission is complete before the deadline .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
There are probably several answers depending on the situation and on the standards in your field . First there are papers published in journals with no authors that are referenced as : Anonymous , yyyy . Paper title ... In some cases an organization can be the author . this is true for , for example , governmental organizations , NGO 's etc. . In these cases the publications are offically published . References would be listed under the organization ( often abbreviated ) such as : WMO ( World Meteorological Organization ) , yyyy . Publication title ... To reference online material is always a bit more complicated but I guess the anonymous author can be used and the source organization listed as the " Publisher " such as the The Guardian in your example . The point is that the source is known but not the author . If you have a lot of these sources there will of course be many " anomymous " floating around in th etext and reference list which may be awkward . In such a case you may consider using the organization as author .
end question
start question
How to properly cite other papers in my slides ?
As an applied mathematician , I like to go for the format [ Author1 , Author2 JST ' 99 ] , where " JST " is an abbreviation for the journal . I truncate longer author lists with et al , and add initials in some cases to reduce ambiguity [ Li RC , Guo CH , LAA ' 05 ] . With the help of a macro , I put the citations in square brackets ( following the LaTeX usage ) , in a different color ( dark grey ) and font ( / ) . Of course every solution to this problem is a compromise between brevity , readability and googleability , but it seems to me that this one works well in my field .
You cite the original title , for the very reason you gave : to enable readers to find the original title . If your work is subject to guidelines , you should also check those . Usually , there is no point in giving a translation of the title as it does not contain any relevant information for the reader . Many citation styles do not mention the title of papers at all . I see two exceptions though : If a translation of the cited work into English exists ( but you worked with the French original ) , you can mention it in addition to the French title , e.g. with : [ actual citation ] ( translated into English under the title [ translated title ] ) If the title allows the reader to estimate what the source contains and whether they want to read it at all . In this case , you should arguably change your text such that it states in what way the citation is relevant for your work .
I suppose the easiest way would be to use the command in LaTeX . Put something like this before your : Use it as follows . If you want to change the reference to a citation or another format , you can replace the contents of the As far as to " What is the best way to cite a website URL ? " the answer generally is that there is n't a standard . Personally , I use web sites as a citation if it contributes some kind of important intellectual argument to the paper . If I use web sites as a footnote , it 's because it has to do with some kind of tool I used and is there simply to inform the user that I used Tool XYZ . Using your example , if I said in my paper , " We used the Google search engine to identify evidence of bias in search engine results " I 'd probably put that as a footnote , whereas if I said , " Company web sites from Google , Microsoft , and Apple about employment all state that having fun at work is important " may be citations . ( I should finally note that this is a personal convention rather than anything spelled out in a styleguide , but maybe it helps you ? ) .
I do n't enjoy lecturing either and yet my student reviews ask for more lectures even if I prefer discussion . What I 've done for some classes is prepare a portfolio of 15 minute mini-lectures that are on one specific point , targeted , succint , and within the attention span ( maybe ) of 18 year olds . You might also want to create a similar grab bag of canned material so that when a particular topic arises , you can easily lecture on it . Otherwise , the only other way is to practice . I 've realized my own aversion to lecturing is something I need to work more on , so I deliberately designed a large lecture course that was 100 % lecturing , rather than the smaller seminar courses that I prefer .
Slides serve the following purposes : If the title of your paper is too long , you do n't have to write the title on the board , losing time . They keep the audience up-to-date . Gives an idea on what you are doing now , what you are going to do some time after . Contains hard-to-draw figures . Therefore , you are able to talk to-the-point without losing time on drawing figures . Contains experimental results . These , if extensive , literally can not be drawn accurately onto board in about 10 minutes . Maybe they can be , but then there is no time to talk . May serve you as reminder cards , therefore you do n't forget what to talk about 2 minutes later . In the Q&amp;A session , if someone asks you about a table , a figure or a graph , you do n't have to draw them again . Rather , you can just go back and answer the question . If you are a junior researcher , you are able to write your name and affiliation on the slides , and avoid the awkwardness of writing your name on the board as if you 're an instructor and if audience consists of students . You can always support slides by using the board , and explain your points better . These being stated , I think slides are crucial for a presentation where the time limit is considerably low ( 10-20 minutes including Q&amp;A ) .
With a future event so tenuous , I would recommend against putting it in your CV at all . Even if you think your CV is thin , it will not be improved by putting in an abstract that might or might not get presented and that you have n't even started to prepare .
Just do n't . As an applicant to a scientific PhD program , if you were n't doing a lot of scientific reading , that would just be weird . Thinking it 's something special to be reading scientific literature every day , is a small warning sign in itself . And the interests section is there to indicate some kind of balanced personality and the existence of a life away from narrow study .
Most journals require that the submitted manuscript has not been submitted total or partially to any other journal . Of course different policies apply to open access journals . If I were you I would check the journal 's policy regarding this issue and contact the editors if necessary to get their opinion ( probably they will require details on what will be duplicated ) . To the very least discuss this with your supervisor . You can find yourself in a very unpleasant position if you are not careful ( not to mention having your papers rejected ) , as indicated by @Enthusiastic Student
This should be applicable for your problem in <URL> . [ Authors ( if known ) ] . [ Title of the matter ] . Retrieved from [ URL ] . Slides [ start ] - [ end ] . Just keep in mind that the main purpose of citation is to facilitate the reader to be able to refer the materials you 've referred . As long as you show clearly where to look and what to look for , your citation is considered valid . Citation formats are there for uniformity within the bibliography within the concerned journal .
I 'm not aware of any reason you could n't cite work of a family member . Indeed , a tenet of academic work is to cite your sources and give references appropriately , so due credit is given to previous works . Were you not to cite your grandfather ( or indeed anyone else 's work you reference ) , that in itself would be the improper behaviour . It is normal ( and often necessary ) to cite your own work as well - in order to avoid self-plagiarism , you need to reference any previous works by yourself if you use them in a future work , so as not to be re-presenting the same work repeatedly and claiming it as new every time . Regarding clarifying points , that would n't be a problem - it is actively encouraged to discuss and collaborate with others in research . Authors place their email addresses and affiliations on publications to facilitate private conversation and discussion with other researchers , and often this is how collaborations and future advances happen . Conferences are also organised with the principle aim of facilitating dialogue and further discussion between researchers . You would be able to cite information from clarifications with him as personal correspondence type references , and I do n't see a reason you would need an appendix to quote the actual correspondence . In the event that there were to be any kind of potential for conflict of interest , you obviously should disclose it as such . Also , if you are significantly referencing personal correspondence with your grandfather , he may be making sufficient intellectual contribution to be considered an author of the paper . Simple clarification of points in already-published works would n't be an issue ( otherwise I 'd be an author on any paper as a result of an email I replied to ! ) , but significant intellectual contribution or addition of new material would probably require you to regard him as an author . For assistance and clarifications which do n't constitute author him , you could add an acknowledgement to the paper to express recognition of the assistance and advice given . Disclaimer - there may be discipline specific nuances here I am not aware of , most probably around how to cite personal correspondence , since it 's not something I 've had to do before . The requirements to declare authorship may also vary between disciplines and publications based on their regulations .
I do not view it as generally unethical to refer to these solutions . This situation is more complex than I think some other answers have admitted . Here is a list of claims : In an ideal world , the point of homework is for the student to learn the material . In a perfectly ideal world , we would not need to grade homework , because students would do it on their own to master the material . They might refer to other people 's solutions to see if theirs are correct , and that would be fine . Experience shows this world is not perfect . Students will often skip ungraded homework , and their learning and exam grades will suffer . So instructors assign homework for a grade . But this is n't because the grade is really important : it 's because we want the students to do the homework and learn the material ! Some students then get the idea that the grade is the real goal of the homework , and simply copy their assignment from others . Professors often find this unacceptable . One important point that others have answered is that , if you are going to turn in the homework , what you turn in should reflect your own understanding of the assignment . But , equally importantly , it is important to let yourself struggle with problems for a while before looking up the answer . That is the only way to really learn how to solve problems . Most professors accept that the internet exists - we know you can look up other people 's answers . It used to be that fraternities had giant files of old homework and exam answers for this purpose ( maybe they still do ) . And students study in groups all the time - research shows study groups can dramatically increase learning . So getting help is not a bad thing . But you do n't want to get help too quickly . Make a genuine effort to answer the problems yourself first . If you find that you are looking up the answers to all the problems ( even the easiest ones ) , then something is off - try going for more tutoring , or studying more before doing the homework . If you find that you occasionally need to look up one of the most difficult problems , that 's perfectly normal ( but it still would n't excuse directly copying the solution into your homework , of course ) . Of course , the usual caveats apply : some professors may specifically tell you not to collaborate with anyone or use any other resources . But most professors know that students usually collaborate with each other on homework ( e.g. study groups ) and know that students can look up answers using other resources . We have no problem with that , as long as each student 's submission reflects their own understanding in the end .
No . The publisher does not and can not guarantee the correctness of the papers . Also the peer-review system is not perfect . That being said , even though a single paper might have some chance of being wrong , as studies are replicated , and follow up studies verify and extend the conclusions , the scientific community can build up stronger claims .
It is a lot of work to find out which paper in arXiv has actually the same content as a published paper . However , taking arXiv 's journal-ref field as a surrogate indicating which paper has a journal version out , I arrive at these fraction of papers : So it looks as if the gut feeling that this is field-dependent is true : high energy and nuclear physics have consistently high fractions of papers with journal-ref field set . On the other hand , this seems far less common for maths papers . Note that a certain drop at the end is to be expected as the preprints may be uploaded to arXiv considerably before the paper is accepted , printed and the journal-ref is updated in arXiv . Here 's the marginal plot over all fields : So overall , about 45 % of the papers have a journal-ref . However , it is set for almost 60 % of the 2001 - 2007 papers . Whether this is a real decline or just the lag between preprint and paper publishing remains to be seen ( in a few years ) . Also , neither the overall nor the subject-dependent trends seem to have a convincing increasing trend , even if the decline due to " not yet published and updated " is assumed to be the sole cause of the decreases . For the complete picture , here 's the development of total number of papers : and number of papers with journal-ref set :
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
I do n't know if it is possible to add your ORCID directly to the paper in question ( probably not ) , but it is possible to link to the paper from your ORCID profile . Go to <URL> ( signing in if necessary ) This should bring up a page with your " Biography " , which consists of several collapsible tabs ( Education , Employment , Funding and Works ) . Next to the Works tab , click on the button for " + Add works " . You then have several different options to proceed . The quickest is " search and link " which allows you to search a database such as PubMed or CrossRef , find your paper , and add it to your profile . I wo n't go through the full details of each step , but if you follow the instructions on screen , it should hopefully guide you through .
The goal is to score the papers on their own merits , not to rank them . There are some conferences where there are ranking systems , usually among the scored papers and done by the committee , but just like journal papers , it 's possible to evaluate a paper on its own merits . For example , if there was a paper that was technically the " Best of a bad lot " , but still contained massive numbers of errors , poor writing , unintelligible graphics , etc. , knowing the context is n't necessarily helpful , they 're all bad papers . Looking at their scoring metric , each one of these can be described in manner consistent with not knowing other papers : reject : This abstract is n't suitable for the venue , is just outright poor quality , etc. and is beyond salvaging . weak reject : This abstract is n't pathologically flawed , but would need a considerable amount of work to be appropriate for the venue . neutral : The " I suppose " category . Filler abstracts that could use a bit of polish , or ones that failed to rouse much of a strong feeling either way . weak accept : Promising submissions that are appropriate for the venue . While not inherently flawed , there 's probably improvements they could make to . accept : " I would like to see this accepted " It 's possible for you to get two outstanding papers and simply both think they should be accepted . Or two papers that should be rejected flat out . And things in between . Trying to rank every submission to a conference would be a massive effort , and is still somewhat arbitrary , as your ranking scheme is not inherently an objective one . Nor are you necessarily guaranteed to be qualified to rank each and every submission . You should take into account the nature of the conference itself - for example , there are some conferences where I am considerably more lenient than I am for others , the same way there are journals where I use somewhat stricter criteria . And yes , a strict reviewer could torpedo otherwise worthwhile papers , but that 's why many groups use more than one reviewer , and the probability of any one reviewer being a sufficiently strict reviewer as to meaningfully start harming the overall peer review process is pretty small .
No ! Unless you uploaded a copy of your submitted paper to public preprint server like PeerJ Preprints , ArXiv or BioRxiv . If you uploaded a public preprint you can add that to your ORCID profile . Extra note : About your published works , as you know , you can add your publications from any publisher to your ORCID profile ( after you sign-in to your ORCID account ) by clicking on " Add Works " . More information is given here : <URL> I 'd recommend the CrossRef Metadata Search as often the easiest method of importing one 's publications , provided those publications have a registered DOI .
I do of course not know what your current work strategy looks like so I can only provide what I think are generally helpful tools . Note-taking should be a priority , not only to avoid confusion but also to help you get an overview . set a target to summarize the paper in a about a page and try to capture the following : What is the major question covered by th epaper ? Why is it important ? What was done ( experiemnts observations data ) ? What are the major conclusions of the paper ? Did you find any new information of particular interest to you ? You may come up with similar or different key questions depending on th epurpose of your reading . The point is to make such short summaries of the papers . Once you have the summaries you could consider oranizing them in some fashion . There is no exclusive model to use and in fact the organization may depend on the purpose of your reading . You may find that after reading a number of papers a possible way to organize them can become clear . The main purpose of this step is to bundle papers that have specific points in common . You should also sort your papers ( printouts or files ) with your notes . There are many ways of doing this rom the analogue to data bases . Try to use a free reference dta base system to get everything organized .
In your example , you are citing the chapter author 's work , not the work of the compiler/editor of the book as a whole . According to the APA Publication Manual , use the following reference format for this situation . Author , A.A. ( 1967 ) Title of chapter or entry . In A. Editor &amp; B. Editor ( Eds . ) , Title of book ( pp . xxx-xxx ) . Location : Publisher Of course , your intext citation would reference the chapter author too , not the book author/editor . The same general format holds for other reference styles as well .
I would ask a colleague which does speak Thai , and ask him if there are any relevant Thai publications you need to be aware of . Ofcourse this colleague needs to be in the same field you are interested in . If he or she does not know of any relevant literature , this might indicate that you are not missing any relevant research . In addition , when you are looking for papers yourself , I would Google translate the titles of the papers , and if they seem interesting I would ask a native speaking colleague to translate the abstract . If it still is interesting then you ask your colleague to read the paper together with you .
end question
start question
Are there examples of more efficient funding systems than grant applications ?
Of course . Remember that in many countries , institutions get a lot of money based on solely being . As an example , in the Czech Republic , the Czech Academy of Sciences receives a lot of budget money for its operation , and some of the money is of course used " for research " . Just as an example , until recently , almost all employment expenses ( salaries , offices , building maintainance , etc. ) was covered exclusively by budget money . Similar model exists in other countries , for instance in France with CNRS , but the difference is that most CNRS people are associated to particular universities , just without teaching duties . It works well because you moreorless know what you get . Financial stability helps in establishing long-lasting projects etc. . Of couse , some level of control is necessary so that good people get the money . In the Czech system , this is based on ( AFAIK 5-year ) audits which evaluate each person separately , and then whole departments , working groups and institutions .
Yes and no . You can only use your Pell grant money for summer classes if you 've already been enrolled in classes the previous year : To be eligible for using this federal aid for their summer courses , students must have completed 24 credit hours toward their degree programs during the prior fall and spring semesters and have received passing grades , and they must enroll in at least 6 hours of courses during the summer . So if you want to attend summer classes in 2016 , you had to have 24 credit hours of schoolwork done at the same institution during the 2015-2016 academic year . Campus Explorer , <URL> .
Because of its anonymity , nobody is ultimately responsible for the veracity of the information . This is one major point which makes Wikipedia vulnerable and of limited sustainable reference value . That is not to say that there are not excellent entries there . Unlike free software , there is no easy way to say that the article is wrong on less well-understood or contentious topics . An authored article at least has someone with a reputation to lose on the producing end of the text . Plus , if you know the reputation of the author , you can judge how far you want to follow him/her .
What can a mentor gain from the mentor/mentee relationship ? Altruistic answers : Passing on learned knowledge and lessons is a hallmark of a society . What you learned as a student , employee , employer , citizen , etc. is important so that once your brain and the brains of others in your generation are pushing up daisies , the knowledge is n't lost , and repeating mistakes can be avoided . Many people consider this a satisfying endeavor . As a role model , you can demonstrate moral , ethical , compassionate , etc. strategies for using the education you got from the school . Knowing that you 've led someone down an ethical path is a good feeling . You can act as a sounding board for your mentee 's questions about your field , and for the types of questions that do n't routinely come up in class . There is a certain satisfaction in being able to answer questions based on your experience . There might be new ideas that your mentee knows about your field that you can learn from . While you pass on your wisdom , you also have the opportunity to learn some of the new ideas that are being taught today . Less altruistic answers : Depending on your field , having been a mentor looks good on a resume or in an interview . In your case , you 'll gain points with your former professor , who might be more inclined to write you a good letter of recommendation some day . Decidedly bad answers : Steer the kid in the wrong direction , and that 's one less competitor ! You might get your lab cleaned because " it builds character . " In academia , if your mentee has good ideas , you can steal them and publish the results yourself .
An extended journal version might well combine multiple input papers , though this is somewhat unusual . In general if somebody was an author on one of the papers that is a source , then they should be an author on the composite . The only exception that I can think of is if the resulting composite paper drops sections from some of the inputs , and certain authors had only been involved in those sections . Again , this would seem to be a rather unusual situation , though plausible .
The answer is that in some fields ( La ) TeX dominate whereas in other fields ( La ) TeX is largely unknown . Obviously any field where equations are required is more likely to be using ( La ) TeX for writing and publishing . However , it is not uncommon that journals , or rather , type-setters of journals , use LaTeX for final production regardless of submitted format . The same applies to book publishers . But , the fact is that the use varies and one needs to check with the journal to which you wish to submit . The fact that you are not " allowed " to write your thesis with ( la ) TeX is perhaps because your advisor does not use it . I am an avid LaTeX user and am struggling to convince both colleagues and students in my department to at least try using it so I know how difficult it can be . In the end , I need to use both to be able to communicate with my colleagues and peers . So although I do not see why you should not set the thesis in ( La ) TeX in the end , you probably need to use word for the manuscript so that your advisor can provide input on files you supply . But , check how many journals actually use LaTeX in your field and strike up a discussion with your fellow students and your advisor . I think it is worthwhile to be fairly fluent in using many tools . Edit : I will just add that I was convinced by a friend to use TeX ( not LaTeX , it was a long time ago ) when I wrote my thesis ( a monograph at a US university ) while almost no-one in the department used TeX ; but then my advisor always provided feedback from double-spaced printouts which were platform independent . Those were the days .
In my experience ( in a large public American computer science department ) , review of applications begins as soon as they are submitted , but no decisions are announced until well after the posted deadline . Reviewing graduate applications actually takes significant time , and admissions decisions are based at least in part on comparisons with the rest of the applicant pool . My university actually forbids announcing admissions decisions before the application deadline . Other universities/countries may have more relaxed policies .
The Elsevier boycott seems to be the largest one of its kind . I understand the argument to be : A boycott is easier to maintain against a single publisher than against several publishers at once , since it limits the cost to the participants while , if anything , making the boycott more painful to the publisher . There 's a short list of likely candidates for a single boycott -- probably just Springer and Elsevier , and perhaps Wiley , as the largest and most expensive academic publishers . Elsevier had been particularly active in lobbying on some related issues ( SOPA , PIPA , and the Research Works Act ) , and had recently been involved in several publishing related scandals ( the ones involving <URL> , and the <URL> ) . ( I personally found these arguments strong , but plenty of people did n't , and some people have refused to participate in the boycott precisely because they think such a boycott should be more widely targeted . )
In many departments , tenured professors can use bringing in external funds to the department as a means of " buying " their way out of some of their teaching and administrative commitments . Similarly , other departments might use additional committee assignments and teaching loads to " punish " people who do n't bring in grants . They may also have less flexibility in selecting teaching assignments . In other countries , such as Germany , a long-term shortage in funding can lead to the consequence of a chair not being " succeeded " when the holder retires ; in that case , the institute ( equivalent to a US group ) the professor is in charge of is wound down rather than finding a new leader for the group .
It would depend on what your field of work is . But heres a nifty little list that I keep an eye on ( I am looking for a postdoctoral position in academia / research and these websites are quite helpful to me ) <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are a few websites suggested in the answers below/above my response to this question and they are quite nice too ! Besides that you probably have a general idea as to what you 'd want to work as / work for . You could perhaps target a bunch of universities and faculty members for prospective positions ? Good luck !
There was over 80 for the position I applied for a few years ago , at a Dutch neuroscience institute with a good reputation . I imagine there would be more at world famous universities in the US . I hear that most of the time , most applicants are n't that good , even the top 10 % who make it to the interview . In my case the best candidate got the position , and the one ranked second ( me ) got an offer for a position later on ... so in the end it was one out of 40 .
There is probably not a single truth here but I would make the following statements : Having a good publication record is the basis for basically everything in academia . The question is then what is good ? As a fresh PhD student citations will be near zero ( I am guessing in most fields ) . Having publications in citation index listed journals is therefore a definite plus . Having several as first author is a must ( see <URL> for a discussion ) I would also argue that having papers not part of the PhD ( even if not first authored author ) is a plus since it indicates activity . As a new post-graduate you need to improve the publication record as best you can . You need to show that you do your own new work but also be part of collaborations in some mix . Building a publication record takes time and will partly be up to your own efforts and in some way also by chance ( you never know what opportunities lie ahead ) . To get employed , you can basically only compete with a good publication list . Everyone knows this takes time and I am guessing all fields have their own " standards " as to what is a reasonable publication rate . In my field where papers are based on field investigations , 2-4 papers per year is considered acceptable , the longer-term average should be towards 3-5 . The rate is thus an aspect that should not be over-looked . Typically you will have a dip post-PhD because it takes time to build or get into a new environment and to start writing new papers . Having something on the back burner for that period may thus be useful to bridge the gap . As a final note , the citations will be more and more important after a few years . In my field it usually takes a few years to start getting citations because the results will inspire someone to apply for money , go into the field for new investigations , and then write papers . In a lab or theoretical environment such response times may be lower so check with seniors in your field what applies . A good question to ask is perhaps if there are ways to promote ones work to increase citation records , I do not have the answer to that question . Bottom line : publish in as good journals as possible . Good quality counts but a reasonable publication rate is also necessary . Citations will come with time .
" All other things being equal , " you 'd rather have more references from graduate than undergraduate professors . Your situation is such that " all other things are n't equal . " Apparently , you did n't get to know any of your masters professors well , and only took one course from each . Whereas you had undergraduate professors that you took two to three courses from , and they know you better , and may be in a better position to assess your research potential . Taking the inference a step further , you may have done your most interesting/significant research as an undergraduate , while your master 's work " topped up " your academic knowledge . If that 's the case , you probably ought to " go with what you 've got , " and get more referrals from the ( undergraduate ) professors that you did more work for , or at least got to know better . I would rather have " glowing " recommendations from undergraduate professors than " lukewarm " recommendations from graduate professors . If all else fails , try to take a second course with one of your graduate professors so the s/he can get to know you better , and give you a recommendation .
You ask " In particular , is there evidence that by publishing software alongside research papers means that more people use the methods described in the paper ? " I am not aware of any large scale empirical studies that have assessed this for software at present [ 1 ] however there is anecdotal evidence and related studies looking at the impact of open data . One piece of related anecdotal evidence came from short survey I carried out in 2013 looking for people who had been " scooped " as a result of publishing their code openly ( i.e. someone else had published a paper using that software to get to the same scientific results before the author of the software ) . Whilst there were very few examples of people getting scooped , there were many more examples of researchers who had gotten new collaborations , new citations , and new funding as a result of publishing their code openly . Many said that this was because others were more able to try out the methods because code was available . More convincingly , there have been several good studies looking at the effects on citations ( a proxy for the sort of impact you mention ) from making data openly accessible [ 2-6 ] . Many of the reasons for the data citation benefit discussed in [ 7 ] appear qualitatively to be true for software as well [ 8-9 ] . Finally , in the area of Applied Mathematics , you might like to look at some of the outputs of the ICERM workshop on Reproducibility on Computational and Experimental Mathematics [ 10 ] , as well as some of the publications of the participants . [ 1 ] One of the reasons for this is that up until very recently , it was difficult to conduct such a study - it was difficult to link software to a publication , few authors were publishing code , and it was difficult to data mine journals to assess impact . This is changing , an I expect studies to start emerging based on tools like ContentMine and ScienceToolbox . [ 2 ] Piwowar , Day , Fridsma ( 2007 ) . Sharing Detailed Research Data Is Associated with Increased Citation Rate . PLoS ONE . [ 3 ] Gleditsch NP , Metelits C , Strand H. 2003 . Posting your data : will you be scooped or will you be famous ? International Studies Perspectives 4 ( 1 ) :89 -97 [ 4 ] Pienta AM , Alter GC , Lyle JA . 2010 . The enduring value of social science research : the use and reuse of primary research data . The Organisation , Economics and Policy of Scientific Research Workshop [ 5 ] Henneken EA , Accomazzi A. 2011 . Linking to data - effect on citation rates in astronomy . [ 6 ] Dorch B. 2012 . On the Citation Advantage of linking to data . hprints . [ 7 ] Piwowar H , Vision T. 2013 . Data reuse and the open data citation advantage . PeerJ . PubMed 24109559 [ 8 ] Howison J , Herbsleb , J. 2013 . Incentives and Integration In Scientific Software Production . CSCW 2013 . [ 9 ] Howison J , Bullard J . How is software visible in the scientific literature ? Preprint available from <URL> [ 10 ] " Setting the Default to Reproducible : Reproducibility in Computational and Experimental Mathematics , " ICERM Workshop report , with D. Bailey , J. Borwein , R. LeVeque , W. Rider , and W. Stein .
It may be useful to take a slightly larger perspective , rather than comparing just business vs. STEM . While there is a great degree of variation around the world and from program to program , most higher-level degree funding can be clustered into three general categories : Doctoral degrees in STEM fields are generally funded by universities or external agencies . Terminal " professional " degrees , including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. frequently expect students to be responsible for their own funding , often going deeply into debt to do so . Doctoral degrees in humanities and liberal arts fields are in-between , where sometimes students are supported or partially supported and other times they are not . There 's a great deal of variation , of course . For example , I believe that the education of medical doctors is supported by some nations ( though I lack a reference at the moment ) . Likewise , Masters degrees are sometimes considered a " professional degree " that students are expected to fund , while other times they are lumped in with STEM doctoral degrees and funded by the university or other sources . So , why should this be the case ? It seems to me that a lot of this is simply independently developing markets : STEM students are typically expected to contribute significantly to the investigation of science and engineering as part of their training , and since these contributions can be very valuable in those markets , it makes sense for external funding agencies to include students in their funding . Professional degrees are often coupled with very high post-graduation salaries , while the training period is much more one-way , with the students spending most of their time learning rather than making novel ( and readily fundable ) contributions . Humanities and liberal arts are also quite important societally , but they are not currently associated with markets flush with capital and an easy set of incentives to pour money into schools either during the program ( as with STEM ) or afterward ( as with professional degrees ) . As such , they have generally developed much more ad hoc and patchwork approaches to funding degrees .
The purpose of adding words like " novel " and " innovative " is to weed out proposals that may be poorly researched and thus copying others or or involve repeating other works in a slightly different setting ( or equivalent ) . The phrasings makes rejecting proposals easier since it provides a critieria ( one among many ) against which it can be judged . Funding agencies are also keen to see their funding go to research that can be judged to contribute " significant " results . My experience says that what constitutes " novel " and " innovative " is difficult to assess in detail . In my field , environmental/earth science , some themes become " fashionable " or hot and signals these aspects , or rather absence means less likelihood to receive funding . These themes include finite element modelling ( 70s ) , acid rain ( 70s/80s ) and climate change ( currently ) . This can be seen as a communal will or interest to steer research in certain ways and so showing you can significantly contribute to these goals was/is more or less necessary to provide you with a good chance for obtaining funding . So to define " novel " and " innovative " will be difficult . And , as a side point , your research either is or is not " novel " or " innovative " , there are no degrees . You need to come up with ideas that are truly new ( testing new grounds ) or which promise results that are significantly advancing science but more importantly , you need to convince the reviewers in the funding agency about your case . This means to avoid " more of the same " proposals , to be sure your idea has not been worked on before ( know your field ) . A book , I strongly recommend for all is Friedland , A. , Fold , C.L. , 2009 . Writing Successful Science Proposals , Second Edition . Yale Univ. . Press
We 've had a variety of practices . Some of it depends on the computer literacy of the admin assistant doing the application file processing . We 've had cases of electronic material ( PDFs ) being printed out and then rescanned back in as the staff person did not know how to collate multiple PDFs into a single document . [ HEAD PALM ] Sigh ... To be entirely fair , some of our faculty are also very visual-tactile and will prefer print out the dossier and read it there , rather than online . In other words , you ca n't assume anything about how the files will be handled . You should be explicit in the URLs . If you have media files on disk or thumb drive ( photographs , video , source code , simulations , etc. ) , then you should also post a visible link to an archive location .
As a TT at a small liberal arts college let me just say that to gain tenure I have to do both . In my field this amounts to having five or six new articles or a book before tenure . There is a very large spectrum of liberal arts colleges and the top end ( figure top 100 ) all claim that research active professors are better able to teach up to date content in their field and to better demonstrate to their students why the field is exciting and worth studying . ( By ` all ' I mean I do not know of a counter example . ) At the very top end of the liberal arts spectrum you have schools that give their professors R1 teaching loads and more funding . The only thing they would lack are the graduate students . Sure at the lower end of the spectrum are places that only expect teaching . Then there are the community colleges which openly admit they are teaching only institutions but they acknowledge that their mission is distinct . Another section of schools I 'd suggest you could take a look at are the second tier state schools , places like CSU Pamona , or University of Central Florida . These are not flagships and focus more on teaching than R1s but you still have to be research active to get tenure . Next time you go to a conference , chat up those folks who seem to be pre-tenure and ask them what their institutions demand . The US is a country with other 4000 colleges and universities . They do not form a linear order from liberal arts colleges to R1 universities . So as always , the situation is more complex than you might think at first .
It 's important to distinguish between the legal commitment and the moral commitment . To the best of my understanding , US research universities morally commit to funding their STEM students , i.e. , any student joining the university should act on the expectation that they will be funded one way or another throughout their education . There are any number of ways in which that can go wrong , however , and leave a department in a position where it is unable to fulfill that commitment . For example , public universities are typically subject to review and interference from the state legislature , such as <URL> . They can also potentially face interference on a much more fine-grained level from its ( state politically appointed ) Board of Regents , who are not under a legal obligation to respect the tradition of academia independence . I would thus not be surprised if many universities carefully weaken their language to avoid a legal commitment , and therefore attempt to immunize themselves from student lawsuits should such a situation arise .
So is my financial situation going to depend on if I can secure a grant for my research as a postdoc or I should expect to receive a salary ? The question is not getting a grant or getting paid , it is getting paid by the institution you work for or getting your salary from a grant giving institution . How many postdocs do get paid ? ( As far as I know ) All of them . Depending on the country you are talking about it may even be illegal to employ someone without pay . However , ( as @virmaior pointed out ) there are some " postdocs " in Japan that are not paid and have no work requirements . At least in Europe and the US this is not common and in most cases this is probably a bad idea for someone looking for a regular postdoc position ( see my comment below ) . How likely is the success in either ways ? That depends on your field , the quality of your work , ... . We can not answer that but you can talk to your peers / supervisor about the job market to get an idea . [ as a postdoc ] I do not have to pay academic fees or any other fees to a university Right . One general remark : If you are not not getting a ( paid ) postdoc position or a grant you should try to find a job in the industry anyway . Finding a more senior position is usually much harder than finding a postdoc position .
end question
start question
How can I ask a lecturer not to disclose ( my ) grades publicly ?
My experience from European universities is that even there , the grades should not be posted by name , but instead by a student ID number . However , in most cases , the university requires the public posting of the grades in such a manner ( for exactly the reasons you suggest -- to allow for petitioning of changes in grade ) . Moreover , because of the large number of students who may be taking a course , it can be highly impractical for the teaching staff to respond to individual requests for reporting grades by email . ( Imagine having to send out 1800 emails for a single course ! ) Consequently , while you might ask for anonymizing of the grade reports by student ID instead of name , I think it would be unfair to ask the professors to report individual grades by email , unless you have an exceptional and demonstrated need for such an email ( for instance , you are unable to get your grade because of extended absence without Internet access ) .
As so often , this may be field-specific , so I 'm giving a CS perspective : Posters are not full papers . Often , it is totally acceptable that a poster presents work in progress , or preliminary results . While a paper adds some vague hints to separate future steps in continuing the research after presenting a finished contribution , on a poster , that can well be the other way round . Therefore : Use the opportunity to show what you have done so far and where you want to go from there on your poster . Reconsider what the gist of the poster is - you may have to give up the plan that the poster is about your results , and switch the focus of your poster to talking about your research process . That way , you can present the goal of your poster to collect comments and suggestions on how to retrieve some meaningful results in the direction you 're interested in . Like this , you are not presenting just so you can present , you are presenting because it is the best way to get concrete comments by other researchers . Of course , it depends on what exactly you have written in your poster abstract . If you explicitly said there that the poster will focus on results , the situation may be more problematic .
The professional version of Adobe Acrobat provides advanced functions like commenting and indexing , but it 's not cheap . The free <URL> enables annotations and bookmarks and works well . It 's quick , easy , and I can save the updated versions and access the bookmarks , etc in free Adobe Reader . Writing some big keywords in <URL> on my written notes ( before scanning ) has been a big help .
This seems like a strange situation , since it is very counterproductive for both you and your supervisor . If this is indeed common in your group , I am sure several ideas have been scooped by the time they finally get submitted . Unfortunately , I really do n't have any decent idea why your supervisor would act this way . The most important thing to do is to talk to your supervisor and do n't let him/her dismiss the issue . This may seem like an aggressive approach , but you can disguise it as a learning experience , e.g. " Please tell me what is wrong with the current manuscript because I believe it is ready for submission , oh wise one " . Whatever you do , remain polite . A few approaches you can try ( all of which are reasonable , so do n't be shy ) : Send reminders and send them often . Ask what you can do to improve the manuscript . If your supervisor has no further suggestions to change the manuscript , ask where you can submit it to directly . Do n't wait for him/her to wake up . This approach may lead to your supervisor turning it into a ping-pong match , asking you to make trivial but time-consuming extensions again and again . In this case , confront your supervisor and explain your perspective . If you can find an appropriate call for papers , ask permission to send the manuscript there . Calls typically have deadlines and are not necessarily a downgrade in terms of venue quality . This includes conferences and journal special issues . Having a hard deadline might help .
I may have an unusual perspective on this , since many mathematics Ph.D. programs in the U.S. fund all their students ( at least through teaching ) . In this context , I 'd recommend against even mentioning the possibility of self-funding : It sounds unconfident , like you do n't expect to receive funding , and this is not a positive impression to convey . You do n't want to give the impression that you feel your own application is subpar , and that you 're bargaining to try to turn a rejection into an unfunded acceptance . This might be a reasonable approach at the end of the process , if you 're stuck on a waiting list , but it 's a problematic way to begin . Letting Ph.D. students go into debt feels exploitative , especially in a program in which most or all of the other students are funded , and letting wealthy people buy their way into graduate school is also troubling . There will be worries about how sustainable your self-funding is . In a year or two , your money or willingness to go into debt may run out , and the department would have to choose whether to come up with money for you or kick you out . That 's an unpleasant choice , and the admissions committee may even worry that you are deliberately aiming for this situation ( in the hope that they wo n't be willing to kick you out once you 've joined the department ) . In the sort of programs I 'm familiar with , announcing in advance that you would be willing to self-fund a Ph.D. wo n't increase your chances of admission . I 've only seen this come up very rarely , and the admissions committee has simply ignored the offer of self-funding and made a decision of acceptance with funding or rejection . I can easily imagine that it could decrease the chances of admission a little , although I have n't seen a clear-cut case of that . By contrast , if you are awarded a prestigious fellowship with guaranteed funding for a certain number of years , you should certainly make sure admissions committees know about it . That does n't have any of these disadvantages . However , it 's not in your best interests to offer to pay your own way unless that 's a common and respected approach in your field .
You could try adapting one of the existing open source licences , with help from your university 's Legal IP team . But a software licence is the wrong tool for the job . One way to do it , is to write a methodology paper . That 's the paper that then gets cited by anyone using your code , or an adapted version of your code , to produce material for subsequent papers . As the paper you published was just about the results you got from the software , I 've got some bad news and some good news for you . The bad news is that you 've got to write another paper . The good news is that this new paper will use work that you 've already done . It will be a methodology paper where you describe the software in detail , providing the source as supplementary information . And that 's what will get cited , by those who use your software . You can also include something such as a bibtex file in with the distribution of your software , to make citation easier : the more you can do to reduce hurdles to citation , the more chance you 've got of getting those citations . Once you 've got the above paper written , the bibtex file should describe that paper . And before then , you can do <URL> : To cite R in publications , use Citation strings ( or BibTeX entries ) for R and R packages can also be obtained by citation ( ) .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
When I look at an application there are four aspects that count : grades cover letter earlier written work ( BS/MS thesis ) Recommendation letters Out of these , I focus most of my attention on the latter two : if the thesis is well-written , has received a good grade , and the letters of recommendation support the candidate in terms of ability to do research ( from reading up on the field to writing everything up ) and independence ( how much ( or little ) support the candidate needed . The cover letter would not make the application , but could break it if it is unfocussed and does not show any skills in expressing the interest in a structured way while avoiding irrelevant information . The grades would , in most cases , be the least interesting since they primarily show one 's ability to read and understand , not necessarily reasoning and deduction . The exception is the grade for the thesis . So , to answer the question , I am not sure which might be more important but anything that supports your ability to do research is of prime interest to anyone evaluating an application . EDIT : To follow up on Gerrit 's suggestion , my personal ranking list would be ( in falling order ) : Earlier written work Recommendation letters Cover letter Grades ( although the grade on the written work is included in 1 ) But , all parts are useful and in the end some mix of all will be used . I would also add that 1 and 2 will " make " the application while 3 and 4 will mainly help to " break " the application .
In the US , various funding agencies ( NSF , NIH , DOE , ... ) have fellowships you can apply to for predoctoral students . They tend to be very competitive compared to internal sources ( Teaching Assistantships , Research Assistantships , Graduate Assistantships ) , but they may offer a higher stipend . Depending on your field , professional societies also offer fellowships : American heart association , Whitaker foundation , Gates foundation . Industry also offers some in association with various schools : Siemens , Raytheon , Johnson &amp; Johnson .
The exact manner of how you should cite the communication may vary from style to style ( often the date is included ) , but it 's entirely reasonable to cite such a communication in a paper or thesis . Typically this is referred to as a Personal Communication . Obviously , wherever possible , you should look for information in published sources , but where this is not possible citing such a personal communication will suffice . From memory , I think there might be one in my own thesis . A specific detail of an experimental method used in a published article was not discussed , but I thought it relevant to my argument so I contacted the author to get the information I needed . Edit : Typically personal communications should not be included in the reference list as they are not evidence that can be readily recovered by anybody reading your work . This is made explicit in several prominent styles ( e.g. , Harvard , Chicago , APA ) .
The short answer is that you can indeed put properly cited , sourced , attributed background material in a background section . Because what is the background section for other than for you to present what people have done before you ? You obviously need to include enough of your own work in this document . However if a relevant derivation has been done before you cite it , possibly review it for the ease of the reader or completeness of your own expository structure and get on to the stuff you have done .
In the modern day of vastly intelligent computer software and important internet presence , it is highly unlikely that a missing middle initial will be the cause of " nonrecognition " of your name . As Stephan wrote , a bigger problem is name confusion ; it is definitely a good idea for you to start including your middle initial ( s ) in future publications . I 'll answer here focused more on how to make sure the names are " linked " . <URL> , which is compiled entirely by a computer ( my only contribution there was identification of duplicate entries and removing them ) , even picked up some of my undergraduate term-reports which I put on my website many years ago ( and which are now no longer available ) . Of my published papers , I 've listed at various times my name as Willie Wong W W Wong Willie W Wong Willie W-Y Wong and I do n't seem to have had much trouble * . If you want better control over the articles associated to your name , you can always register for <URL> and/or an <URL> which are both designed to help alleviate the problem of name collision and name changes throughout the career of a research scientist . For fields which encourages the use of arXiv , the <URL> also helps group all of your pre-prints , and allows you neat things like <URL> showing your recent pre-prints . For mathematics , the AMS maintains <URL> ( they recently upgraded this ! ) to which you can also submit corrections to include omitted paper or to exclude misattributed papers by other authors . ( The AMS author profiles are only accessible through a MathSciNet subscription . ) I am not that familiar with other fields , but you should look around to see if your scholarly society provides a similar service to help maintain a comprehensive publication record for authors . * With Google , at least . Microsoft Academic Search has some trouble coming up with my complete list of publications .
You 'd need to ask the specific journal if they 're okay with it . I suspect many would be , since many other forms of quasi-publication prior to a paper are acceptable .
I think 3 published papers in reputable journals ( though you do not say which precisely ) should more than enough to get you in a PhD program . Dome people are happy to get as much with their PhD work . But that may depend on the field . However , publishing twice the same result , even with some cosmetic changes , is a good way not to get accepted for a PhD program , or for an academic position . People publish far too much , and waste each other 's time . We have to strive for quality , not quantity . Now , you did not specify you field , and thing may somewhat differ according to scientific field . In some fields , conferences are considered publications , sometimes harder on selection than ( some ) journals . In other fields , it is more acceptable to republish in conferences as conference papers play a minor role and are more intended as topics for meeting with colleagues , and giving introduction to your work . The former will have more importance for your publication list , but is more demanding on originality . The right thing to do , that will avoid any problem , bcause they will be dealt with by the program committee of the conference , is to be extremely clear as to what is already published , to make it visible and to have in the references your previous relevant publications ( as well as those of other people ) , whether already accepted or only submitted . Then the program committee will let you know whether your submission is appropriate or not . But do not abuse relying on the program committee , they have considerable work to do . And always be very careful when using twice the same research results .
I 've never heard this about " Future Work " . Items that you put in this section are simply things that you are currently considering , and someone else who does them should at least cite your original work . However , anyone who beats you to actually doing the work should be able to publish it . If you want to make it absolutely clear that you do not intend to work on this material ( and , you never know , you might end up going back to it later anyway ! ) , simply call the section " Further discussion " or just " Discussion " .
There 's no formal process that you are required to use for proofreading , but it 's certainly required in the sense that your dissertation should not be full of typos . You are the most important proofreader . You care the most and have special expertise on the specific topic you are writing about , and eliminating errors is your responsibility . However , it 's worth getting assistance from someone else , since some errors can be tough for the author to spot . You should not expect your advisor to do proofreading . It 's possible that he/she will provide a list of typos , but that 's really not the advisor 's responsibility . Ultimately you 'll benefit far more from higher-level advice about content and writing , so it 's in your interest to provide drafts that you have already checked carefully . One good way to arrange proofreading is to swap dissertations with a friend , with each of you looking over the other 's draft . If you ca n't find anyone to do this , you could try asking friends or relatives to help you proofread , but you 'll have to be careful not to let it become a burden for them . I would not recommend trying to hire a proofreader , unless you have clear approval from your university for exactly what you plan to do . ( If I heard that a student had hired someone to help proofread , I would worry that " proofreading " might be a euphemism for an inappropriate level of writing assistance . )
Skype interviews are usual ( e.g. I have one with Oxford ) . The school might prefer face-to-face interviews but there is nothing wrong in sending a polite ( brief ! ) email .
I think there are two parts to answering this question . First , you should make sure that the teacher is incompetent and not merely unlikable . Second , if the teacher is incompetent , there are a number of options available to avoid studying with them . With respect to the first point , it is important to note that a teacher can be unlikable , and perhaps even appear ignorant ( to students ) , while still being great at his or her job : making sure you learn things . For example , group work and peer instruction are known to be effective teaching strategies . At the same time , they are also quite unpopular with students , and some students even take the view that the instructor is not doing their job when these strategies are applied ( even though the outcome may be very good ) . Professionalism and teaching style are very personal traits , and I 've not seen any evidence that they have strong impact on student learning outcomes . It sounds like maybe your personal dislike of the instructor is clouding your judgement about whether they could be an effective teacher . A teacher has only one job : making sure you learn things . If they can do that job effectively , then it should n't matter whether you like them or not . Talk to students who have finished the course , and find out what they 've learned . Often its only after such a class is complete that students realize they 've learned a lot . If you know you 'll get a lot out of the course , then you should probably take it even if you do n't like the teacher . On the second point , if the teacher really is incompetent , and former students are in strong agreement on this point ( and they really do n't seem to have learned anything about the subject ) , then you do have some other options : Many schools will let you take online courses from other universities for credit . For a chemistry course with a lab , this may not work out , but otherwise this might be your best bet . You can shop around , find an instructor that you like , and still get credit for the course . If the instructor is genuinely incompetent , you could speak with the school administration , and make a formal request for a different instructor . Often your request will be ignored , but I have seen this result in a new instructor being assigned once . Again , it is important that you make sure this is an instance of incompetence and not unlikeability . This is a serious step , and could have implications for the instructor 's job ( especially if they lack tenure ) . You might be able to wait it out , and take the class with someone else . At the university undergraduate level , this can be the easiest solution , provided that the course is not a major prerequisite in your program . At the high school and grad school level , there may not be an alternative instructor in that subject area , so this may be infeasible . Attend the class , but plan to use external resources to study . Consider forming a study group at the start of the semester , and meeting several times a week to talk about class material . Use online courses like those offered by MIT 's Open Courseware , or any of the MOOC companies , to supplement the lecture material , and shop around online to find the best textbook at your level for this topic . You can make sure that you 've learned the material well , even if your instructor is unable to help you learn it .
Your advisor has the duty to inform you if you are meeting expectations , and to notify you in a timely manner if your contract will be renewed or not . Politely bringing this up at the end of the meeting should not cause conflict with your advisor -- unless your advisor is a control freak ( in which case it 's not exactly a bad thing that you 'll need to move on ! ) . However , I would have this conversation as soon as possible , as the end of your contract will be here quite soon . You should inform him , if you 'd like to continue working with him , that such is the case . You should also politely mention that if the finances are n't secure for a commitment , that you will need to consider additional job opportunities to ensure that you are not " stuck " looking for a job without a current source of income .
First of all , consult a lawyer before doing anything . If you were to leave in the middle of the course , that will cause havoc , that they wo n't probably want . Since they are not paying you for the work , you are under no contractual obligation to fulfil anything ( but consult the lawyer ) , and can leave without giving them notice . Now , you may find unethical to leave your students hanging like this , but the mere threat that you are willing to do it , may get some wheels spinning to give you a decent offer . Another option to consider is whatever anti-slavery laws apply in your jurisdiction , since you are working for free ; and anti fraud , because you are working without a contract . Furthermore , since you do n't have a contract , you are not covered by the insurance , and if anything were to happen during your lecture , there is trouble . Think who would have to pay for in case , for example , a projector caught fire and ruined the classroom . If your oral agreement is considered a contract , you ca n't do this ; but then they would be acknowledging they have to abide by these rules .
end question
start question
Where to search for conferences and workshops in computer science ?
A very good site for CS conferences and journals call for papers and their respective deadlines is <URL> .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
Based on my limited experience , I am not confident that open science practices affect tenure decisions directly , at least at the moment . However , there are many indirect benefits . Making the paper publicly available increases the citations . See this <URL> by Kurtz et al. from 2005 . This <URL> provides a nice summary and critique of this literature . Making the data publicly available increases the citations . See this <URL> by Piwowar , Day , and Fridsma from 2007 . This <URL> provides a nice overview . I am confident based on my own experience that a reproducible workflow is a much more efficient workflow ( e.g. , much easier to pick up and make progress after an invitation to revise and resubmit ) . Efficiency should then lead to higher quality output , higher quantity output , or both . And both quality and quantity contribute positively to tenure and promotion . Further , one important step in encouraging other researchers to use your data is allowing them to easily reproduce the original findings . This step is automatic for reproducible research . I 'm less optimistic about the incentives for pre-registration ( at least in my field of political science ) . In my view , there are still strong incentives to not pre-register studies . The culture is changing , but somewhat slowly . Here 's is a <URL> discussing some of these pros and cons . Indeed , this <URL> from 2013 by Ebrahim et al. titled " Effective Strategies for Increasing Citation Frequency " lists many practices that are also open science practices , such as self-archiving papers , publishing in open-access journals , placing papers in open-access repositories , and making the data publicly available .
To search for patents only , <URL> , rather than Google Scholar , is the right tool for the job .
It is much easier to get a job in an top-notch industry research lab than an R1 professorship for one simple reason : there are vastly more such research lab jobs available . To illustrate this , let 's consider an illustrative example . The <URL> has 55 professors . To sustain a department of that size , they 'll probably be hiring 2-4 people per year , depending on what fraction fail to make tenure . Meanwhile , right next door is its cousin , <URL> , with about <URL> : most of those do n't have PhDs , but a lot of them do , and a quick search on their open job postings finds more than a dozen that are looking for a PhD-level candidate right now . That 's just one company , and one you 've probably never even heard of . There 's a lot more big ones out there , and far more than that if you start considering the smaller ones as well . Now , getting back into a professorship , that 's a different story . It most certainly can be done , if you maintain a good research presence . For most people , however , the trip to industry is a one-way trip , simply because you generally do n't have to publish . Many research companies like it when you publish , and many strongly encourage it -- but the fact that they have to encourage it should tell you that the incentives are just not there the same way . At a company , you are not measured primarily by your ability to publish , and so it tends to get triaged in favor of other things , like writing proposals , delivering demos to customers , or product development . There 's nothing against publishing , but there 's no " publish or perish " and so there 's a lot less publishing . Bottom line : you can move in either direction , but it 's a lot easier to move from university to industry than the reverse .
I am surprised , but this does appear to be true . From the <URL> we have the following : ETS also makes available test-taker photos and essay responses on the Analytical Writing section of the GRE  revised General Test to designated score recipients as part of an institutional portal . Photos and Analytical Writing essay responses of all individuals who report their scores to institutions on or after July 1 , 2014 , are included in the portal . The photo and essay responses from each GRE revised General Test administration you select from your five-year reportable history will be made available in the portal as part of your score record to the institutions you designated to receive your scores on or after July 1 , 2014 . ( In some sense , I 'm even more surprised they are making photos of test-takers available . ) As for how the admissions committee processes these essays , others on the site can speak more directly to this , particularly in computer science . However , I 'm certain this will vary from department to department ( assuming any department looks at them at all ) . I suspect the admissions committee of many departments will not even be aware these essays are available through the ETS institutional portal . Of those that are aware these exist , I would be surprised if much weight were placed on these . These will convey almost no incremental information to an admissions committee . ( I suppose if you scored a 0 and the rest of your application was outstanding , and the committee knew these were available , someone might look to see what happened . Maybe . )
Is re-rewriting the core function of a world class - well known open source project ( where performance is a crucial ) and optimizing it to be 2-3 times faster , considered research ? It might be , but only under certain restrictions : You need to be sure no-one has written about the improvement before . And I am not talking about the particular piece of code in the particular project you are looking at here , but about the conceptual idea of how to improve the code . If you want to present your work as a scientific contribution , it needs to be conceptually novel in a way that no-one has described the methods you use in an abstract way before . You need to present your improvement on an abstract , generalized level . Modifying a particular project is nice , but it is not research . Showing a novel method how to modify any number of projects that feature a particular problem can be . Your change should not be entirely obvious . While research contributions do not necessarily need to be totally unexpected or groundbreakingly obscure ideas , if many developers could make the same modifications to the project simply by applying their professional knowledge , your contribution is probably not considered valuable enough , even if no-one else has described the actual procedure before . To answer concretely to your points : The idea is to parallelize it as much as possible , This might be interesting for a paper if it involves any methods for parallelization that were previously unknown , and that can be applied to other applications , as well . modify ( a bit ) well known data structures to be faster for the specific case , A " specific case " is usually not interesting for research results ; it only becomes interesting if you can show the " specific case " is generalizeable in some way . use a more suited language If you design a new language that is specifically suited for the type of applications in question , that could be publishable as research , at least if that language has conceptual advantages over existing domain-specific or general purpose languages for any class of applications . The mere translation into an existing language is most probably not publishable as research . and ( a bit ) more suited algorithms than the open source project used . If those algorithms are already known , it is probably somewhat obvious that they could be used on that particular proejct . As such , this is not a research contribution . I am applying what others made . Yes , fine . I do n't create an entirely new algorithm or data structure . Well , do you create anything conceptually new at all ? But on the other hand , I guess there are 1,000 s of papers published out there and many of them add little value , while my work will help improve the open source project . " little value " is relative . In research publications , value does not mean a solution can readily be used . Rather than that , value is usually seen as the product of the degree by which a problem is solved/situation is improved if the presented knowledge is applied the amount of cases in which that problem occurred/to which the solution is applicable Due to the second item , whether or not you already apply your method to one particular project is hardly relevant . As soon as it is known how to solve the issue , the research is done . Implementing the solution in a project may be helpful to the users of the project , but it does not advance the knowledge of humanity and as such , does not warrant a research publication in and of itself . To summarize : A research publication is not about what has been done , but about what has been learned .
In US universities , this office is commonly called Career Services or some variation on that , such as " career center " , " career development " , etc. .
Different communities mean different things by " application . " In a very mathematical community , " application " may mean " figuring out what relevance this idea might have to something in the real world . In a very industrial community , " application " may mean " has been deployed at industrial scale . " The relative scale of theory and application is also nicely illustrated in <URL> . I think that you are doing the right thing by looking at past proceedings and asking , " Are these people interested in talking about work like mine ? " This is important not just for getting your paper accepted , but also for the value that you will get out of the meeting , both in terms of the feedback you get and also in terms of what you can learn and the connections that you can build . For a more efficient route to finding a good community , you can also talk to your advisor or other mentors you may have , who will likely know the communities better and readily be able to provide good suggestions about where to send your paper .
Many computer science venues are fairly picky about their citation styles and also use highly abbreviated citation styles that do n't give any option for including additional information like a page number . If page numbers are critical to your citation , then you have two options for how to include them while conforming to the required style : If you only use one narrow set of pages in the book , use an " in-book " style citation ( @inbook in BibTeX ) that includes the page numbers in the reference . Alternately , or if you refer to more than one set of pages , you can include the pages in the text rather than the citation : Bla bla is considered very important , as described on page 210 -- 214 of [ 52 ] .
You are trying to compare a US salary to a UK salary using the current exchange rate . I do not think this is particularly relevant . Even if you are willing to ignore differences between the UK and US in terms of work/life balance , teaching load , and job security , you probably want to compare the quality of life that a salary buys you and not what would happen if you converted it to USD . The starting salary for a CS lecturer/assistant professor , when converted to USD , is much lower for a UK academic than a US academic , but there are differences between the value of a US and UK salary . While you say the UK tax rate is higher , that is a huge over simplification . Two random online tax calculators I used gave a US income tax of 24 % on an 80,000 USD salary and a UK income tax of 25 % on a 42,000 GBP salary . This ignores US state ( and possibly city ) income tax . The UK VAT of 20 % is much higher than typical US sales taxes , but not everything is subject to VAT/sales tax . Even if you can accurately calculate an average total tax liability , you still need to account for purchasing power . I have work in both the US and UK in comparable cites ( not NYC/London ) and tend to think that the value of my UK salary is a little lower than value of my US salary . It is worth noting that UK salaries are much more consistent across fields . This means that I make the same as a CS lecturer in the UK , but that in the US I would probably be making 10 % less than a CS assistant professor . My guess is that for CS there is a substantial , maybe 15 % , hit in quality of life that an academic salary buys . In the US your starting salary is often your salary until you get tenure/promotion while in the UK you get a larger salary every year . There is a performance based pay raise , that essentially everyone gets , which is generally about 2.5 % . This means the gap between the US and UK values gets smaller every year and after 6 years , when one is preparing to be promoted , the gap is pretty small . Further , UK salaries also have a cost of living adjustment . For the past few years this has been about 0.5-2 % and less than the inflation , but it would n't surprise me if the union negotiates a big salary bump , maybe 10 % , in the next few years . This would really close the gap . It is also worth noting that a US assistant professor is not directly equivalent to a UK lecturer . I think a US assistant professor is often a few years ahead in terms of productivity and experience .
The issue is highly field-dependent . In computer science , it 's probably still considered highly unethical , but in my field -- chemical engineering , where papers are not normally " published " -- presenting the same talk in multiple venues is not normally considered a problem . Other fields lie somewhere in between . I think that , regardless of the ethical dilemma , the issue is that the more likely you are to have overlap between the two audiences who will hear your talk , the less you want to give the same talk -- even if it 's ethical to do so . At the very least , you should have enough new material in the later talk that it 's worth the audience 's time to hear the second version if they 've already heard it at the first conference .
It is common for graduates to jump between communications , electronics , computer science domains . But it is usually not so for something like genetic engineering even though it is considered an interdisciplinary field . Institutions might expect graduation from either of biotechnology , molecular biology , microbiology or biochemistry . This would however be different for fields such as genomics and bioinformatics where institutions do accept CS graduates provided they have a background in areas like data analytics , machine learning , data mining , data science and the like . As this would depend on the eligibility and preference criteria of the institution concerned , it would be better for your to consult with the prospective institution that would offer the program desired .
It varies . As a first year PhD student I was asked to review a theory paper , even though I had almost no background in the field . The professor explicitly said I only had to read the first half of the paper , and I only had to tell him if it looked interesting and correct . At the same time I 'm sure many reviewers do a diligent job and do n't outsource their reviewing to inexperienced graduate students . Related : <URL>
As a postdoc applicant , you should be starting to develop a distinctive , compelling research agenda and vision . As a grad student , it 's usually enough to work on problems someone gives you , and you can go to your advisor for help as needed . If you never move beyond this , it 's not a great outcome , but you 'll eventually get your Ph.D. ; you just wo n't be on track for further research success . To be a successful postdoc , you need to develop the ability to work more independently . However , intellectual leadership is more than just independence . It 's not enough just to write papers . Instead , these papers should fit together and be aimed towards larger goals , in a way you can articulate coherently . If someone asks you what sort of research you do , you should be able to explain what you are aiming for , how your work differs from other people 's , and why your approach is worthwhile and even important . This takes time and comes only with experience - more will be expected of tenure-track job applicants , or people being considered for tenure or a full professorship . But a postdoc applicant needs to demonstrate a start , by writing a research statement that sounds exciting , and ideally by publishing several papers that build on each other to accomplish something larger than any one of them . It 's even better if other researchers have already started to take up your ideas and apply or extend them , although that 's more common in fast-moving fields with short publication cycles . What you do n't want is to come across just like your advisor , but with less experience and perhaps less talent . You can succeed that way if you do fantastic work , but it 's not a wise approach for most students : it 's just not good advertising to say " I 'm basically a less good version of my advisor . " Even while you are still in graduate school , you should be aiming to differentiate yourself a little from your advisor ( with your advisor 's help - after all , they should n't be trying to produce a clone ) . Find some important aspect of the subject that interests you more than your advisor , learn some useful background they do n't know well , or find a collaborator who does n't work with them . As for how committees judge this , you 've got to make a convincing case in your application . Your research statement should sound like a future leader , not a student ( do n't be arrogant , but you should n't sound like you are implementing someone else 's vision - you need to demonstrate clearly that you understand how everything fits together and are adding your own ideas ) . You need to back your research statement up with publications worthy of it , as well as some concrete ideas for future work . Your letters of recommendation should convey the impact you are already having on the field . Of course this is the best case scenario , and not every application will achieve this , but if you want to get a prestigious postdoc position and go on to a tenure-track job at a research university , then this is what you should be aiming for . You may feel like a fraud even trying to do this , since you know perfectly well that you still have much more to learn , but you should ignore these feelings . Everyone recognizes that postdoc applicants are still developing their research abilities , but it 's important to be ambitious and show what you are capable of . ( In fact , no matter how far you progress in your career , you 'll never reach the point of being able to say " OK , I 've reached my full potential and know everything I need to , " but you ca n't let that stop you . )
Many schools will require you to take remediation courses if they do not feel you meet the course requirements for the graduate program . They will be fairly upfront about what they think you would need , but it will mean taking more Bachelors level classes at cost before being accepted to the program . In general I would show any additional work you have done to improve your programming skills , including code you have written . A lot of qualified people do not apply to top schools ( I.E. MIT ) because they do not believe they would get in . But I would not recommend focusing on any one school and instead find a few programs you like and apply to all of them . Some schools will allow you to take classes as a non-degree seeking student , which would provide both a way to prove yourself and also gauge the program and its suitability to you . I would check with the program to see how many credits they accept through this method though . As an aside , I am in the same boat . I majored in Mathematics with a minor in Physics but have been working as a programmer for the last three years . I am now looking into online masters programs in Computer Engineering or Computer Science .
[ This answer is colored by the fact that I 'm a theoretical computer scientist . ] As an undergraduate , you are ( usually ) given crisp , well-formulated problems with definite correct answers that you can reasonably expected to discover in a relatively short time period , using only a very narrow range of knowledge and skills . If you get stuck , your instructor can give you useful hints , because they already know how to solve the problem . Moreover , the instructor can probably explain the complete solution to you fairly quickly ( in , say , less than a week ) . Research involves vague , half-baked , open-ended problems that may resist progress after months or <URL> of hard work , regardless of how many classes you 've taken or books/papers you 've read . Nobody else knows the answer to the problem you 're working on ( or it is n't really research ) ; nobody can even give you a hint how to proceed . Nobody has a clue what other results or techniques will be helpful , or if you 're just going to have to make up a completely new technique on the fly . You do n't know if the solution you 're aiming for is actually useful or interesting , or even if the problem is formulated so that it has a definite answer . Still , you 'd better find something interesting , or you 'll never graduate . If that sounds like fun , research might be for you !
The American Mathematical Society has a calendar of conferences : <URL> As does the Mathematical Association of America : <URL> And the Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics : <URL>
Yes , I would suggest you include these in the CV for a graduate application . It probably wo n't make a huge difference in admissions , but it is evidence that you are interested and involved in the research community in your field . You can list them in any way that seems appropriate ; there 's no strict standard format for a CV . You probably have sections for " Education " and " Work experience " and maybe " Publications " ; make a similar section entitled " Conferences attended " or " Conference participation " or something like that . Include the title , date and location of each conference , and maybe a short sentence discussing the scope of the meeting and your role . ( As discussed in the question you linked : later in your career , you will probably want to take this section out . )
You can download the latex sources of the vast majority of ( actually almost all ) math preprints posted to arXiv . Just go to the abstract page of your favorite math paper and click on " Other formats " under " Download . " There you can find the link to the source file in latex as long as the author ( s ) uploaded it and complied by arXiv 's latex engine ( which pretty much everyone does ) . I think reading the actual sources of nicely typeset papers you like is a very effective way to learn how to latex . For example , here 's the abstract page of my latest preprint : <URL> and its source is here : <URL> To get the latex file I submitted , click " Download source " near the bottom right . The file is in compressed format . But as the arXiv page says , your browser may uncompress the file . My Google Chrome for Mac does this , so what I actually get by clicking the download link is a latex file , which is named " 1409.2559 v4 " with no extension . If your browser behaves the same way , you can simply rename the file to attach " . tex " at the end if the extension is important .
end question
start question
Where does the remaining money of FP7 projects go ?
As usual , the answer is : it depends . I have no experience with the Marie Curie programme , but for traditional FP7 research projects , the funding system worked as follows . Your funding plan consisted basically of two large blocks : direct costs , and indirect costs . Direct costs included things like personnel ( the largest part , usually ) , special equipment , or travel funds . For direct costs , the research institution needed to proof how they spent the money exactly . In case of underspending ( for instance , if one planned for a postdoc but ended up hiring a PhD student ) , the left-over money has to be refunded to the agency ( or , in some cases , can be transferred to another partner in the project ) . In case of overspending , the research institution has to cover the costs themselves . Indirect costs , on the other hand , are a lump sum . They are calculated as a percentage of the planned direct costs ( typically 25 % for universities , iirc ) and are meant to cover all the other costs of a project that are hard to account for exactly ( things like the office space and heating for the people working in the project , etc. ) . These are paid out no matter what , and are not refunded . The research institution does not need to proof in any way that it actually spent all that money . So to answer your concrete question : everything that is designated as direct costs in the ITN proposal and is not spent will go back to the EU . However , all the indirect costs associated with the ITN will stay with your host institution regardless of whether they spend the money or not .
The ultimate question is what would the average well-informed bachelor 's or master 's degree-holder in your field be expected to know . Something that comes up in an undergraduate textbook , or is a commonly known and easily demonstrated fact ( for example , the definition of the error function ) , probably does n't need to be cited , because everyone in your field would be expected to know it . On the other hand , if you 're publishing in a " general interest " journal , then you might want to assume a lower " base " of knowledge , and cite a commonly available source . However , if it 's something that 's a very specific tool or fact ( or a derivation , etc. ) , then it probably merits a citation in any case .
You can download the latex sources of the vast majority of ( actually almost all ) math preprints posted to arXiv . Just go to the abstract page of your favorite math paper and click on " Other formats " under " Download . " There you can find the link to the source file in latex as long as the author ( s ) uploaded it and complied by arXiv 's latex engine ( which pretty much everyone does ) . I think reading the actual sources of nicely typeset papers you like is a very effective way to learn how to latex . For example , here 's the abstract page of my latest preprint : <URL> and its source is here : <URL> To get the latex file I submitted , click " Download source " near the bottom right . The file is in compressed format . But as the arXiv page says , your browser may uncompress the file . My Google Chrome for Mac does this , so what I actually get by clicking the download link is a latex file , which is named " 1409.2559 v4 " with no extension . If your browser behaves the same way , you can simply rename the file to attach " . tex " at the end if the extension is important .
It happens all the time . I think it is the reviewer 's responsibility to respond to the editor saying that he or she has already seen the paper . Then it 's the editor 's call . Ideally the paper would be sent to a new reviewer , but depending on the subject of the paper the pool of available referees might be small enough that the editor requests the reviewer to reread the paper anyway .
If your institution has a subscription to Journal Citation Reports ( JCR ) , you can check it there . Try this URL : <URL>
Regardless of political considerations , the answer to your question is that publishing companies are collecting the revenue from subscriptions and individual article sales . Some publishers are commercial operations , some are non-profit ( such as the <URL> ) . The price you pay at this time is related only to the publishing process ( organization of submission process and peer-review , typesetting , archival strategies , printing , administration , etc. ) and all other aspects of a commercial company including , of course , a margin . Some people have strong opinions about what this margin should be . The actual research is paid for by other means , including government grants , university salaries , non-profit and foundation grants , funding from commercial companies , etc. . If you had to pay for the actual research behind a given paper , chances are it would cost you something closer to 30k $ . There are various other business models for publishing , some where the whole process is paid for by an institution , and is thus free for both authors and readers , some where authors have to pay to publish , etc. . There are important aspects in keeping money out of the editorial board - publisher - reviewers - authors relationship , because it reduces the risk of conflicts of interest ( although author-pay open-access advocates think otherwise ) . Options to obtain scientific papers without paying ( yourself ) include : going to the library of your local institution , checking out <URL> and <URL> or ultimately , contacting the authors to obtain electronic copies . More on that subject in <URL> .
Sure : The DFG in Germany awards grants for projects to organize digital libraries . The ministry of education and research in Germany funds large projects on higher education ( one of them is the Qualittspakt Lehre - you hire people ( often at the PhD or postdoc level ) to organize or develop new courses , course concepts or course material ) . There are grants for projects on history of science . Universities offer reduction of teaching load or sabbaticals for writing books ( which is really some kind of a grant , you get paid with time not money ) . In books you often see acknowledgements for some funding . Granted , in many of these grants the money or time does not go to PhD students or postdocs but at least the first three things fit the bill . Note however , that as soon there is no research involved , you can not get a research degree for this work . So these kind of positions are not attractive to some students .
We encourage our graduate students to take internships for 3 months during summer ( at Microsoft Redmond and MSR Cambridge ) . This is a bit like a sabbatical . In our experience , these are extremely valuable for the students and for fostering research collaborations . Usually one publication results for the student , but the experience and the contacts they gain can not be measure in the regular units . We do not allow our students to go on such ' sabbaticals ' if they are not already performing well . The lucky students who do get to go need to act as ambassadors for our university . We do not use internships as a way of kick-stacking the research of a student-gone-astray . Unless by sabbatical , you mean vacation , in which case , I 've answered the wrong question . Students are entitled to 6 weeks vacation per year ( not including Christmas ) . They may take it in one chunk if they wish . Whether we allow it depends on what project deadlines need to be met and so forth . Generally , we encourage them to split up their vacation into smaller chunks ( 1 week here , 2 weeks there ) .
Generally speaking , any critiques should be brief and directed ( i.e. , " the cited works failed to consider < X > in their analysis " , " to simplify their model , they assumed < X > , whereas in reality < Y > " ) . If you 're criticizing assumptions , be sure to specifically state which assumptions you challenge , and clearly deliniate ( with references ) why they are incorrect . Note that many papers use incorrect assumptions to begin work in a new field , and your critique should recognize that ( i.e. , " The seminal paper assumed < X > [ 1 ] . We extend this work by removing said assumption . " ) If you 're criticizing conclusions , again state specifically which conclusion you disagree with , and be sure to provide data/analyses to back up your conclusion . If you 're challenging their data , note that ( in neuroscience , at least ) this is perfectly common ; findings differ all the time . Progress often stems from finding the cause of these differences between data . You should note the difference and mention something along the lines of " Our findings differ from those of < X > [ 1 ] , and we believe this is because < Y > " . Note that it is almost a requirement to mention something like this ; if you do n't , ( 1 ) the researchers whose paper you missed will probably mildly insulted , and ( 2 ) people familiar with the field will assume you did n't do your basic literature search , which makes you look stupid . Needless to say , ad hominem attacks are always inappropriate and should never appear in scientific literature .
Being invited to present a paper or give a keynote is an honour . It shows that the community recognizes your work . Of course , it is also a way to further advertise your work , or to reflect on what you have done . Generally , the audience is larger for invited speakers . One accepts the invitation if one has time and prestige of the conference matches one 's reputation . If you have a small reputation , an invited talk at a workshop is an honour . If you are super-famous , you 'll tend to only accept invitations to prestigious events . The cost may depend on how much money the conference has in its budget , which will often depend on the sponsors . Sometimes the conference will waive the registration fee , often they may provide accommodation also , and sometimes they may even cover airfare . Bigger conferences will be able to cover more of the costs . Small workshops may not be able to cover any of the costs .
I 've heard from people that generally , it 's a bad idea to go to the same school as your undergrad to get your graduate education . The word " generally " is commonly used in two rather different senses . The first sense is " typically " , " most often " . The second sense -- perhaps more common in mathematical and scientific writing -- is " always " , or " in the largest possible scope which might be applied " . The quoted advice is valid if " generally " is construed in the former sense , not the latter . To briefly explain : on the one hand , there are advantages to acquiring a diversity of experience . " Great University X " will do its business in a way which is slightly different from " Great University Y " . Experiencing this is very valuable , because if you stay in academia you will probably be affiliated with several more universities , different from each of these . If all of your student experience is at a single place , you will have subconsciously internalized the universality of your experience , and you 'll be in for a rude awakening when you learn that what is obviously best to you is not the practice in your new environment . Then too , by going to different great universities , you meet different great people ( many of whom will know each other and will be in transit to/from other great universities ) , both students and faculty . This is also very valuable . On the other hand , there are situations where it is most advantageous to stay where you are . For instance there are sometimes personal , family or financial considerations . Even neglecting these , there are times that the university you attended as an undergraduate is truly the uniquely best option for you to continue your studies , or the best option among those available to you . If you are an undergraduate at UCLA , if you want to study analysis , and if you did not get admitted to Berkeley , MIT , Chicago , Princeton or Stanford , then staying where you are sounds like an excellent ( perhaps optimal ) choice academically . If you 've already done successful research with a top faculty member at your current program and you truly want to continue that research most of all : yes , think seriously about staying right where you are . The other answer says that graduate school rankings is " a little ridiculous " . While I do n't really disagree , let me try to put a finer point on that : grad school rankings are ridiculous if you take them too seriously , and especially if you regard them as a strict linear ranking . It does not matter that US News and World Report currently thinks that MIT is the best mathematics department in the US whereas in past years it used to think it was some combination of Harvard / Princeton / Berkeley . It would be more honest and more helpful if they simply recorded that these departments and several others ( Chicago , Stanford , ... ) are in the uppermost echelon of graduate programs in mathematics . Asking whether Harvard is better than Stanford is ridiculous : it depends upon what you 're studying . ( If you want to study analysis , do n't go to Harvard unless you know you want to work with the one faculty member there who does that . ) Students should be thinking of departments in terms of echelons . Within a given echelon , ranking is not helpful . However , barring some truly exceptional circumstances you want to go to a program in the top echelon that accepts you . As a corollary to this : if your undergraduate institution is in the top 10 , and every other program you 've gotten into is n't in the top 30 , then yes , I think you should stay where you are , unless you have a very good reason to go to a lower-ranked department ( best reason : there is a superstar there that has agreed to work with you ) . Finally though I have to say that I find it slightly odd that the OP has apparently gone to a top department , been admitted as a student to that top department , but not at any other department of comparable quality . That suggests to me that her application is not as strong as it could be , as those who know her in real life apparently value her more highly .
Generally " archival quality " implies some level of " completeness " and comprehensiveness ( to the degree that any work of science and engineering can really be " complete . " ) In many fields , early work can be published in some conferences , but journal papers that are expected to be " archival quality " are supposed to be more mature . To quote from this <URL> : Conference papers are usually short , and deal with very recent research results or new ideas illustrated by preliminary experiments . An archival journal paper , on the contrary , contains an overview of the state-of-the-art ( with references to other 's and one 's own past work ) , a problem statement , the concept of a solution , a discussion of the theoretical background , experimental set-up , sound measurement data , an evaluation of the results , discussion and conclusions -- a much more complete presentation of the overall project and its results .
Most labs get funding from granting agencies , governments , industry agreements , or private foundations . Some universities also provide funding in other forms . Now , what they can do with the money depends on the conditions of the grant . Some , are attached to a specific project . They may also include a breakdown of the expenses : this much to hire two PhD students , this block to hire a posdoc , publications , experiments , computers ... Some other grants are more open , and may give the PI more freedom to allocate the resources , or to work on sub-projects . Some areas of research have economical interest , and may lead to patents and industrial agreements , that could help the lab to be less dependent on grants . Lastly , some students may get their own funding , that may be attached or not to a specific project . Universities do support labs , mostly by paying salaries of the staff and infrastructures . Regarding the times , most labs apply to any grant in reach : you can never know if the grant you are hoping for will be renewed ; and there is never too much money .
Feel free to edit this answer to improve it , in particular to add other names you know to be used for the individual steps or to extend the maximum typical durations from your experience . The source for the diagram can be found <URL> . Overview <URL> Initial Check This step is usually performed by the non-scientific staff of the journal . It may include for example : Checking for broken files . Checking compliance with length requirements , if any . Checking central formatting requirements , e.g. , line numbers , if required by the journal . A plagiarism check . Excluding manuscripts of very low quality , such as automatic translations . Also known as : technical check , initial QC ( AIP ) , admin checklist ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays . Editor assignment or invitation Based on the topic of the manuscript and suggestions by the authors , an editor is assigned to handle the manuscript . Depending on the journal , the assignment may be done by technical staff , the journal 's chief editor , or automatic by submission category or author suggestion . With some journals , editors are invited and not assigned . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , editor assigned ( Editorial Manager , AIP ) , AE assignment ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays to several weeks . Editorial assessment The editors decide whether the paper should enter the review process or should be rejected directly , e.g. , because it does not fit the journal 's scope or requirements on importance or quality . A rejection at this stage is called desk reject . The paper may also be returned to the authors for reasons other than rejection . With revised manuscripts , the editors assess whether the existing reviews have been addressed adequately . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , waiting for potential reviewer assignment ( AIP ) , under review ( <URL> ) Typical duration : This strongly depends on the journal : With some journals , it is less than a week ; with others it may take a month , in particular if several people are involved in the decision or the initial quality hurdle is high . Peer review The editor selects a number of potential referees to review the manuscript . Should a referee decline to review or not perform the review in a certain time ( as given by the editor or journal ) , the editor usually has to select a new referee . The main exception to this is if the other referees already provided sufficient reviews at this point . With revised manuscripts , usually the reviewers from the previous round are selected . The editor may also decide that certain or all reviewers need not see the manuscript again , as their comments have been adequately addressed . Also known as : with reviewers , with referees , under review , awaiting referee assignment , awaiting referee reports , awaiting reviewer scores ( <URL> ) , reviewers assigned The initial selection of referees is usually comprised in the previous step . Some editorial systems give the status as with editors ( or similar ) if a new referee needs to be assigned and no other referee is currently assigned . Typical duration : This strongly depends on the field and journal . It typically ranges <URL> , but in some cases ( particularly for highly theoretical work where intense proof-checking is expected ) , it may be as long as one to two years . Moreover , the key factors for the duration of an individual peer-review process are how soon the reviewers find time to perform the review and how many reviewers decline or fail to review the manuscript . Thus , even for a given journal , there is a strong variation of review durations . Some journals give their statistics on this time ( or a related one ) on their webpage . Editorial decision Based on the reviews , the editors decide whether : The manuscript shall be rejected . The manuscript needs to be revised by the authors before it can possibly be accepted . If the authors submit a revised manuscript , the workflow is mostly the same as for the initial submission . The manuscript shall be accepted as it is . A decision requires further reviews . Also known as with editors ( APS ) , review completed , required reviews completed ( <URL> ) , <URL> , awaiting EiC decision ( IEEE ) , Editor Decision Started ( AIP ) Typical duration : A few workdays to a week . This may take longer with some journals , in particular if several people are involved in the decision . Copy editing and typesetting The article is copy-edited and typeset by the publisher . Occasionally , requests to the authors may occur at this stage , e.g. , due to low-quality figures . For some journals , a pre-copy-editing version of the manuscript will be put online at this point under a category like Just Accepted , with a warning that the current version has not yet been copy-edited and may change further before publication . Also known as : in production , in press Typical duration : This mostly depends on the publisher 's backlog . Usually between a few workdays to over a year , roughly correlated with the length of the publication delay ( see below ) . Final
Since your field does not normally do standard alphabetical ordering , then its use here might signify that something unusual is going on . So you could in principle list everybody in alphabetical order , identify the corresponding author , and then insert a note in the acknowledgments that everyone contributed more or less equally to the paper . Alternatively , in some fields , papers can be authored by " teams " instead of individuals -- although all the individuals participating in the team are cited somewhere . This is more typical when the collaborations run to the hundreds of authors rather than a few to a dozen . If the journal you submit to allows this , it would probably be the fairest option of all .
If you do n't know where to publish something , but nonetheless it is of an appropriate standard and you consider it worth sharing , why not posting it to <URL> ? You wo n't get prestige just for submitting , but : people can find it , you can easily point to it , it is timestamped .
It 's actually exactly the opposite : " doctor " is Latin for " teacher " and the title originally had no special connection with medicine . Instead , a doctor was anyone qualified to teach at a university ( in medieval Europe teaching qualifications were typically determined by the church ) . The concept of a formal PhD degree came much later , but it continued this earlier terminology . The confusion in English is irritating , but not problematic enough to make universities give up a 1000 + year old tradition . It 's not clear why this situation arose . One natural explanation is that if you want to emphasize your medical skills , you can do it by explaining that you are not just a healer , but in fact someone qualified to teach other people the healing arts . In other words , you 're a doctor of medicine in the academic sense of the word " doctor " . Until very recently universities were fairly exotic , and most people did n't talk about academic doctors very much , so the medical usage was much more salient for the general public and for most people it became the standard meaning of " doctor " . Of course this difficulty with this story is that it does n't explain why , for example , German does not confuse the terms the same way English does . Maybe it 's just chance , or maybe there 's some cultural reason . In any case , though , academia had the title first and is reluctant to change it .
To the admissions committee : You 'll definitely want to explain it in your Statement of Purpose ( or whatever the equivalent may be in your country ) . It will probably be noticed but there is n't anything you can do about it now except do better and possibly seek help about your issue if you have n't already . Some relevant questions are <URL> and <URL> . To employers : This is highly dependant on the field and employer . In Computer Science/software engineering , from my experience , employers do n't care . They care about your abilities and the only time they even want your transcript is to check off HR 's requirement that he/she does indeed have a degree . Larger and more corporate companies may care more , but my horrible undergraduate transcript has passed many times without any question ( as have my colleagues ' ) .
Can you contact an Associate Editor or another member of the editorial board ? More than 18 months with no communication does seem excessively long and the lack of response from the editor suggests something is wrong . You might also try the secretary in the editor 's department and ask her if she can get in touch with him . If you do n't hear back from them either , I would withdraw the paper and submit it somewhere else . Hopefully , there 's a way to do that in the online system -- but if not , contacting them one last time with the notification should be sufficient . They ca n't publish the paper without you signing some forms .
The APA publication manual describes the way you should submit your manuscript , not the way the paper will ultimately be typeset . For APA journals , footnotes are grouped at the end in the manuscript but they appear at the bottom of the relevant page ( actually at the bottom of the right column ) in the final published version . Similarly , you would traditionally put tables and figures at the end of your manuscript , one-by-one on separate pages but once published in a journal , figures and tables will be embedded in the article . If you are working on a student paper , you should first and foremost follow the instructions from your instructor but there is no reason to put footnotes at the end of the document . The APA publication manual provides useful guidance regarding language or statistical reporting but it 's not a typography textbook . In fact , some publishers ask authors to follow ( some ) APA guidelines for the submission even if the final publication will have a different layout than APA journals .
end question
start question
If I upload a draft of my paper to arXiv , will I still be able to publish in an IEEE or ACM publication ?
As @Jukka Suomela has indicated in the comments , yes , you will . The relevant policy for IEEE ( from <URL> ) is : 8 . Electronic Preprints . Before submitting an article to an IEEE publication , authors frequently post their manuscripts to their own web site , their employer 's site , or to another server that invites constructive comment from colleagues . Upon submission of an article to IEEE , an author is required to transfer copyright in the article to IEEE , and the author must update any previously posted version of the article with a prominently displayed IEEE copyright notice . Upon publication of an article by the IEEE , the author must replace any previously posted electronic versions of the article with either ( 1 ) the full citation to the IEEE work with a Digital Object Identifier ( DOI ) or link to the article abstract in IEEE Xplore , or ( 2 ) the accepted version only ( not the IEEE-published version ) , including the IEEE copyright notice and full citation , with a link to the final , published article in IEEE Xplore . For ACM , from <URL> : ( b ) Furthermore , notwithstanding the exclusive rights the Owner has granted to ACM pursuant to Paragraph 2 ( a ) , Owner shall have the right to do the following : [ ... ] ( v ) Prior to commencement of the ACM peer review process , post the version of the Work as submitted to ACM ( " Submitted Version " ) to non-peer reviewed servers ... This answer is current as of August , 2014 .
I would say no . When you are awarded an IPRS , you will get the conditions that you need to adhere to . At my university , there is no clause that says you have to pay back anything if you quit . If I were you , apply first , and if you are successful , look at the conditions carefully .
I think the best answer to this question has already been given as a comment : You should ask your advisor . The fact that you are asking this question suggests that you and your advisor have n't discussed in detail what your thesis should consist of . It 's important to have this conversation , even aside from the particular question you are asking here . ( You do n't want to risk discovering much later that you and your advisor had different visions for what the thesis should be like . ) This is a good answer to so many questions on this site ( I have started to think that there should be an " Ask your advisor ! " closure option ) , but it seems especially true here . From the OP 's comment I can see that the master 's thesis is being done in mathematics . The expectations and requirements for a master 's thesis in mathematics are so highly variable across institutions and countries that I can think of almost nothing ( other than " Ask your advisor ! " ) which would be guaranteed to be universally applicable . In mathematics programs in the US , it is especially unclear what work constitutes a master 's thesis , especially in pure mathematics . Unlike the situation in many other countries , there are relatively few full-time master 's students in American universities , even compared to the number of master 's degrees awarded : in my experience , more master 's degrees go to talented , ambitious undergraduates who get them alongside their bachelor 's degrees , or to PhD students who have decided to drop out of the program and get a consolation degree . In my case I got a master 's degree along with my bachelor 's degree at the University of Chicago , and for such a top university you might be surprised to hear how minimal the requirements were : I had to complete all nine trimester courses that first year graduate ( i.e. , PhD ) students take ( I did so over two years ) and pass a pro forma foreign language exam . [ In particular I did not write a master 's thesis . ] When I went on to my PhD studies ( at Harvard ) I found that I was about as well prepared as most of the other students . I do n't recall that my having a master 's degree came up once during my five years in a PhD program ... with the possible exception that some students would , a year or two into their program , fill out paperwork and pay a small fee to get a master 's degree , whereas I already had one of those so chose to keep my money . Having been heavily involved with the graduate ( mostly PhD ) program at the University of Georgia in recent years , I can say that here a master 's thesis is whatever the advisor and student agree that it is , subject to the approval of two other committee members . Writing a thesis is one route ; there is another route involving more coursework and some exams . Among master 's thesis advisors I 've talked to , the sense is that the student should take the thesis as an opportunity to engage with some piece of mathematics at a deeper level than they have done before , to the extent that they have mastered it and can show this mastery with an original ( or at least , independent ) exposition . This description seems rather at odds with the one given in another answer to this question : NO . Undergrads may get away with using one ( or a few ) papers to synthesize the essence into their own viewpoint , but at the post-grad level you should be reading for width and depth , which means using every seminal work in your field as well as exploring the newer papers on the topic . This is probably a correct description of some academic fields , but not for mathematics . Very few mathematics undergraduates are reading " real " math papers at all . The task of reading , understanding and writing about even one " real " math paper may in fact be sufficient for a master 's thesis . There are even certain papers out there for which rewriting them so as to contain the level of detail and completeness that would satisfy a master 's thesis committee would be a real service to the mathematical community . I think that most PhD students in mathematics do not use every seminal work in [ their ] field : I did n't , for instance . I am not saying that just any old thing will suffice for a master 's thesis in mathematics : I am saying that the global requirements are very few , so it becomes more important to talk to your advisor . I have so far supervised one master 's thesis . My student carefully read and wrote about two papers concerning geometry of numbers and Legendre 's Equation ax ^ 2 + by ^ 2 + cz ^ 2 = 0 . She then tried to extend the techniques of the second paper to diagonal quadratic equations in n \ geq 4 variables . Much of this was easy , but the key was the existence of a " magic sublattice " defined in the three-dimensional case by the necessary congruence conditions for Legendre 's Equation to have a solution . After much trouble ( and some help from me ) , she was eventually able to prove that for more than three variables such a magic sublattice did not exist . She wrote up a thesis which contained exp
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
You definitely submit a paper by yourself and if you write a high quality submission , it will be accepted . When I was early in my research career I found it very helpful to have a collaborator such as a teacher/professor or a postdoc student with publishing experience to collaborate on papers . This often helps catching points or issues that you may overlook within your research as well as providing advice and guidance .
I have just received an email from the editor and I am writing it here Dear Dr. * * * , We can not prevent an author to upload her/his paper to Arxiv . However , because of the double-blind process applied in Communication Letters , we do n't encourage it . There is only one restriction : Your paper should stand alone without any supplementary material and/or reference to an ArXiv post . Sincerely ,
( Assuming USA ) Yes , you can apply if you are graduating in the summer . No , I do not see any reason why you should not do this . You should probably explain your plan and the reasons for it in your application .
In the US , it is very unusual to combine the title " Professor " with a first name . I have never been referred to as " Professor Tom " in my whole career . You can either write " Dear Prof. Smith " , using the family name , or " Dear John " . You should only write " Dear John " if you would call him " John " when you speak in person . ( For people you have n't met in person , the decision is a bit different ; but for people who you know personally , this is a good rule . ) For example , my students generally call me " Prof. Church " , but sometimes after they graduate I invite them to call me Tom ; in this case , it would be perfectly appropriate to send me a letter beginning " Dear Tom " . I would use " Hi John " only to convey a very informal tone . Even with colleagues or students with whom I 'm good friends outside of work , I still use " Dear Mary " when contacting them about professional business . For this reason , I do n't recommend using " Hi Prof. Smith " ; it mixes an informal term with a formal term .
My experience with ACM Transactions publications , as both author and editor , is that they do not generally offer any sort of early access . I find this rather strange for a computing society , but suspect this may be because they also have <URL> : authors can put early versions of their article up on arXiv or similar repositories . Many ACM journal articles are also extended versions of conference articles , so that is another route for accessing information that you may be looking for .
To the department . The point of publishing work is to share the knowledge with others . This will be more greatly achieved in your previous department where other professors and up-and-coming students can have access to your work . This would be better than your work simply sitting on your old supervisor 's book shelf . Your supervisor likely knows your work and therefore does not need a constant reminder sitting on his or her shelf . Also , I never knew an academic supervisor who cherished having a previous student 's work sitting on their shelf solely for sentimental reasons , which I think might be your motive .
This can not be answered in general . It depends on the contract you have with the institution and the applicable law in your jurisdiction . It may depend on how you were funded as well . I know of examples from both extremes : your university owns 100 % and your university owns nothing , as well as everything in between . Some intermediate setting is probably more common , but , as I said , it depends .
As you become established as a scholar , you will receive more and more of such invitations , most of which are either scams or trash publications attempting to trick you into giving them content . A small fraction , however , will actually come from legitimate colleagues who are inviting you to a special issue , editorial , or similar such opportunity . Thus , when receiving an invitation , you should thus begin by evaluating the quality of the venue and the person who is inviting you , just as you would if you were choosing where to submit without an invitation . Be aware , however , that some disreputable publications will lie about the identity of people involved , and that some careless academics may have been tricked into lending their name to disreputable publications . In the specific case of Lambert Academic Publishing , I will note that <URL> as well as a number of other highly critical analyses , including on <URL> and <URL> . You can make up your own mind about their credibility , but I would n't recommend soiling your C.V. by publication with them . Finally , to answer your question about arXiv vs. other publications : being in arXiv is fine for being accessible and citable . If your work is good , however , I would recommend submitting to a reputable peer-reviewed journal . If you are published in such , it will improve the reputation , notability , and value of your publication .
Yes you should . I expect that a common question in any interview would be to ask the candidate about any piece of work of which the candidate feels particularly proud or pleased . Being able to refer to your publication -- and have a copy of it with you -- would be a positive thing . Regarding your opinion of the work -- you might be your own worst critic . Clearly the journal editor felt it was acceptable for publication . In a positive spin , you could outline in your interview where you feel the work could have been improved , showing a capacity for reflective practice .
I would suggest that you investigate those interesting properties further and then have a paper along the lines of " this structure has this useful property , more-so ( or less-so ) than these other structures . " That is justify why someone would actually use this structure . Think about it from the editors ' point of view . Why should this paper be published ? If you ca n't provide an answer with a straight face then maybe you should wait until there is a purpose for it .
It seems it is a junk conference , which will not bring you anything , but waits for your money ! Do n't go , it is a waste of time , you will get nothing good from it , since no one really involved at a high level in your field will come . It is not unusual for those kind of conferences to invite " anyone " as an invited speaker .
The way I see it , there are a number of factors at play : Your goals : Do you want your paper to be published in a high-impact journal ? If so they will most likely be interested in the whole story rather than a small piece of it . Readability/General appeal : Can you make a coherent story with individual components ? Will they all be interesting for wider audience on their own ? In other words , if you opt for multiple papers out of one project ; can you make sure these will be able to stand on their own ? I personally think going for multiple papers is only valid when combining them into a single big paper would push aside some of your interesting results ( or methods ) to a metaphorical corner Limitations imposed by the target journal : Can you actually put together all that in a single manuscript ? In biomedical research you always get a limit on the number of words in the manuscript , and there is only so much you can put in supplementary . With regards to quality-vs-quantity , I heard that early on in your career quantity is more important while as you become more and more senior , quality becomes the main concern . I am often told that as a PhD student I can , and should try to get involved in as many papers as I can . Around the time I do post-doc , however , it 's time I pay a lot of attention to where I put my name and try to work on a good paper , preferably in a high-impact journal .
Comparing different educational systems is frequently a futile exercise . Learning is like hiking to the top of a mountain from different trails : all of them lead to the same top , but one can be very steep at the beginning , a second one can have its steepest segment halfway to the top and a third one can have a final wall that needs an expert climber . Different educational systems can chose different paths according to different intermediate objectives . Though it 's true that some people prefer a certain type of trail with respect to another , and that along certain trails one can find more people with whom to share the joys and sorrows of hiking ( learning ) , arriving to the top depends only on your efforts . Now you are at the beginning of your trail . It 's too early to decide whether it 's a good trail or not : start hiking and enjoy the landscape , and if you think that the trail is not enough steep for your training , try to jog or run uphill . In other words , challenge yourself : you will learn much much more . An anecdote about the appropriateness of certain steep starts . When I was a sophomore ( 2nd year ) studying electronic engineering we had a mandatory class called Rational Mechanics about Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics . The exam consisted in a set of problems on mechanical systems to be solved with those two formalisms , a home project in which we had to develop a numerical solver with different techniques ( in Pascal ) , and a viva where we had to prove various theorems . It was a tough exam at the sophomore level , but mostly because no one could really get the grasp of it . I somehow managed to tunnel through the exam , even with a decent grade . Two years later I attended a class on quantum mechanics . The first lecture the professor said something like : " Quantum mechanics is based on Hamiltonian mechanics , and since you already know it we can proceed quickly " . I then timidly raised my hand and said " Er ... no one in this room has the faintest idea of what Hamiltonian mechanics is . Yes , we passed the exam two years ago , but really ... could you please give us a refresher ? " . She was astonished , but then agreed to spend a few lectures on Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics . I integrated her lectures with a classic book , and since then those topics have been among my favourites . The above example is to say that sometimes a tough exam at the beginning is just a misplaced exam , because some topics require a certain level of scientific maturity to be properly understood .
Yes , you can . From <URL> : Can an author post his IEEE copyrighted paper on his personal or institutions ' servers ? Yes . An author is permitted to post his IEEE copyrighted paper on his personal site and his institution 's server , but only the accepted version of his paper , not the published version as might be downloaded from IEEE Xplore . Directly from their more recently updated paper policy ( <URL> ) : The policy reaffirms the principle that authors are free to post the accepted version of their article on their personal Web sites or those of their employers . Posting of the final , published PDF continues to be prohibited , except for open access articles , whose authors may freely post the final version .
Allow me to hypothesize a different tack from most of the other answers : Simply do n't engage in this issue at all . As my mentor said once , " You constantly get institutional demands for some action , in some cases it 's best to ignore them , and you 'll find that many just go away . " This request is so incredibly unethical , and also so completely orthogonal to your responsibilities as a graduate student , that it 's hard for me to imagine your advisor spending time on tracking you down and taking revenge over it . If you think you might receive more pressure later on ( e.g. , I 've sadly cracked under such circumstances ) , go ahead and cast the online vote in the privacy of your own home , and then later on say , " Oh sorry , I got a notification and cast the vote immediately . " The request is so inflammatory that I do n't see any use to " politely having an open discussion with your advisor " . I think that only opens the door for defensiveness and retaliation . As wildly unacceptable as it is , I do n't see it as being a good use of your time tracking down where to lodge a complaint over this matter ( which your advisor seems canny enough to avoid documenting except verbally , so it would be just your word against his , according to comments above ) . At least consider the null action as a possibility .
As @Jukka Suomela has indicated in the comments , yes , you will . The relevant policy for IEEE ( from <URL> ) is : 8 . Electronic Preprints . Before submitting an article to an IEEE publication , authors frequently post their manuscripts to their own web site , their employer 's site , or to another server that invites constructive comment from colleagues . Upon submission of an article to IEEE , an author is required to transfer copyright in the article to IEEE , and the author must update any previously posted version of the article with a prominently displayed IEEE copyright notice . Upon publication of an article by the IEEE , the author must replace any previously posted electronic versions of the article with either ( 1 ) the full citation to the IEEE work with a Digital Object Identifier ( DOI ) or link to the article abstract in IEEE Xplore , or ( 2 ) the accepted version only ( not the IEEE-published version ) , including the IEEE copyright notice and full citation , with a link to the final , published article in IEEE Xplore . For ACM , from <URL> : ( b ) Furthermore , notwithstanding the exclusive rights the Owner has granted to ACM pursuant to Paragraph 2 ( a ) , Owner shall have the right to do the following : [ ... ] ( v ) Prior to commencement of the ACM peer review process , post the version of the Work as submitted to ACM ( " Submitted Version " ) to non-peer reviewed servers ... This answer is current as of August , 2014 .
end question
start question
What are the advantages and disadvantages of doing a postdoc in Singapore and UK ?
To put the following into context , I teach at a UK university and have delivered courses at a Singapore partner university for many years . In support of many of the above comments , you need have no concerns about the academic establishment in Singapore , at any level , from primary through to university . Education is top of Singapore 's agenda and this is apparent everywhere . Teaching is in english throughout . Singapore 's universities are world-class . The living and working environments are excellent . Cost of living ( apart from housing ) is lower than UK . The transport system is also excellent . Cost of accommodation is the only negative . Apartment rental costs are high - comparable to London . However , if you are appointed on expat terms the University will provide an apartment and the rent will be subsidised ; all large companies that employ expat staff take account of accommodation costs . But you should make sure that you know what type of apartment is on offer and that it meets your family needs . ' Landed properties ' form a very small part of Singapore 's accommodation , the large majority are high-rise apartments . Income tax is much lower than UK levels - you can check this out on the government 's IRAS web page .
Once you have a t-t position , you 're in a race against time to get as many publications as you can before your tenure clock runs out . A postdoc effectively gives you one more year of focused attention to research and publications before you have to start teaching . Note that teaching can be highly disruptive to research and publications , especially in your first year .
The following answer is based on my understanding of what it means to organise a symposium in a conference ( i.e. , commonly a conference session of about 60 to 120 minutes with around 3 to 8 talks all with a common theme , where the chair is the one to invite and arrange the talks and often provides a more general introduction to the talks ) . Obviously , I 'm not talking about the more mundane task of merely chairing a session , which can be as simple as you being the designated person that ensures that each talk keeps to time . You can build relationships with the other presenters in your session . If you are organising a symposium , then you will be contacting other possible presenters who you think may be attending . This often provides an excuse to connect with people you may only know through their research . For people you already know well , it can provide an excuse to catch up at the conference , which in turn can flow into research collaborations or other opportunities . You are likely to get more people to your session , and those that come may be more interested in your topic . If attendees see that your session is all about your topic , then people interested in your topic are more likely to attend . In contrast if you present an individual paper , it may get lost in a more general session . Chairing a session can help people see you as a person active in the topic . Chairing a session can be something you put down on your CV , performance review , promotion application , grant application , etc. . It 's generally not a huge thing . In many , but not all , fields , conferences are more a means to an end . In these cases journal articles and grants are more important . That said , chairing a symposium that you organised does show some academic leadership that would count for something .
Unfortunately the system in the UK is not uniform . You will really have to read each individual department 's web site to know how to apply . There are , for example , Centres for Doctoral Training <URL> which you apply to like a US graduate program . I do n't know if there is a good one that covers stochastic analysis but it seems likely . It sounds like the list you give is for people who want to apply for a specific supervisor . For this route , your main issue will be funding as there is very little funding for non-UK students these days . This will also vary wildly between different universities . There may be deadlines which you have missed already if you want to start in 2015 . However , simply for being accepted by a supervisor without funding the list you gave is fine . Overall , read each department 's web site on their PhD programmes , do n't forget to look for any relevant Centres for Doctoral Training and good luck .
An industrial case study is when you take your solutions or your processes , apply it to some situation in industry , and then report on the results . You might use the <URL> if what you propose can be appropriately investigated using a qualitative case study . This is appropriate if you 're in management sciences , human-computer interaction , and software engineering ( which is what the Damian paper referenced above is about ) . Note that industrial case studies of this type are VERY difficult to do and take an extremely long time to write up and report on , so I actually doubt the conference is looking for this kind of case study . Alternatively , in the field of Knowledge Discovery of Databases , an industrial case study may simply be applying your algorithm to a database that is used in industry to discover something novel or meaningful . This is more common for analytical fields in general and simply requires you to acquire a database or some other data source that was generated through industrial activity . The reason for " industrial case studies " is because a lot of people create methods and techniques and test it only with " fake laboratory data " that they happen to create or acquire . This fake laboratory data does n't reflect very accurately the real world and people want to see that techniques in fact work on , affect and influence the real world .
You 'll very quickly learn that being an academic involves more than just writing research papers . Your time as a postdoc is when you can start learning about these other aspects , while building your own profile . A postdoc needs to do the following : Build a publication record . This will involve both what you are paid to do and your own line of research . Get involved with supervising students . Help with the PhDs in the lab , and get involved in supervising masters students . Get involved with obtaining funding . This can either be by helping your employer or ( ideally ) obtaining your own funding . Build an international reputation . Start collaborating with external parties . Gain some teaching experience . This is absolutely crucial if you want a faculty position . Learn how to manage projects and a lab . This includes overseeing the progress of projects , allocating your time ( and others ) , presenting results at meetings and writing deliverables . If you are in a lab setting , you will need to learn how to fix/calibrate/maintain critical equipment and software so that you can start your own lab some day , and you will need to become proficient in teaching more junior members on how to use that equipment . Start to devise a strategic research plan . While it is fun to do opportunistic research , solving a problem that comes along or investigating any idea that pops into your head , a better long term strategy is to formulate an interesting long term research plan and follow it , building result upon result . Be as proactive as humanly possible , without being annoying . Talk to everyone in the department , especially people whose research interests are close to your . Go to conferences and sit down and work with interesting people ( not necessarily the superstars ) .
A " fake " or " shady " journal is a low-quality journal that does little or no quality control . They are often called " predatory " because they prey on people who are under a lot of pressure to publish , charging high author fees for promises of quick publication . ( Since they do little , if any , peer review , the time from submission of a paper to publication is often very quick in these journals ) . They often engage in deceptive practices to make themselves appear legitimate , such as : Pretending to be affiliated with a reputable professional society Claiming an " impact factor " when they do not have one , or when they have an " impact factor " from some entity other than Thomson Reuters ISI Listing important academics on their editorial board , when these people never agreed to serve in this capacity . Publishing in one of these journals can be very damaging to your academic career . At best , it shows that you do n't know what journals are considered reputable in your field ; at worst , it makes you look like you are trying to " get " publications without doing the work required to publish in a reputable , high-quality journal . An academic librarian named Jeffrey Beall keeps a list of open-access <URL> and <URL> that he considers to be " predatory . " His lists are quite well-known - you may hear people refer to " Beall 's List " when talking about predatory journals . Between the growth of open-access and the Internet making it possible for literally anyone to start a " journal , " these " journals " have been popping up at an alarming rate . The NY Times even ran a <URL> about it recently .
It 's better to put what is on the copyright page of the book in question . If you do n't have it , then you may have to punt , but wherever you can use the full reference , you should . Edited to add : The goal in a citation is to allow your reader to find the exact work that you used , so you need to be as precise as you can . If there are different editions , etc , they may have different publication locations , so make sure you described the physical volume you have precisely . If you do n't have the physical version , then be sure to give your reader 50 years from now the ability , as best you can , to track it down .
If I take your question correctly , it sounds as if you do n't know whether to refer to the styleguide that informed you to structure your thesis in a certain way . So , in your introduction , you have a section such as : The next chapter of this thesis describes the background literature . Chapter 3 outlines the methodology and so on . Chapter 4 presents the experimental design , whatever ... Finally , chapter 7 concludes and provides further possibilities for research . This structure is suggested by Cresswell ( 19xx ) If that 's what you 're thinking , then I would say no ; do n't reference the styleguide that you based your thesis structure on . Just like you would n't cite , for instance , the AP styleguide for your spelling conventions .
The University of Cambridge 's <URL> recognizes a " Licenciado with an overall grade of between 8 and 9 out of 10 " as " At least a 2i honours degree from a UK university or an equivalent standard from an overseas university " , but also says that it 's equivalent to a Singaporean Master 's degree . I 'd guess that most universities would consider it definitely equivalent to a Bachelors and probably also a Masters degree .
The answer ( as in case of most answers in academia.SE ) is it depends , often widely from case-to-case . Unless presented with an exceptional example , I would generally view having more than two advisers as a major hindrance - the perceived benefit of having another source of ideas is negated heavily by the communications overhead between them , and the scope for misunderstandings about their role , which might cause the student to be either overloaded in multiple ( possibly conflicting ) areas , or languishing without any significant guidance . The rest of my answer is based on the assumption that the number of advisers is 2 . What is the defined role of the said advisers - are they equally responsible for guiding the student towards completion of their graduate studies ( as I 've been told is the case in some European schools/research schools ) , or is one of them the principal guide and the other a co-guide ? The amount of time/effort invested by each would depend on their perception of how much they are actually responsible for the student 's growth as a researcher . As with most social interactions , it would help greatly if there is a good ( or at least professional ) working relationship between the 2 guides , as well as a healthy overlap of research areas - a new student might not be able to handle multiple research problems in completely different areas at the same time ( without affecting the time to graduate , or the quality of results ) . Assuming the student publishes with both of them independently , it would look good on her CV that she can produce publishable research with multiple established researchers . This could also have the side-effect of enhancing the student 's research network - as a lot of papers ( in CS at least ) have more than 2 authors , and often collaborating on an paper could lead to more papers/research done with the same set of persons in future .
Yes , you 're right , " starting research " prior to an adequate basic education can result in huge wastes of time . But it also makes little sense to " wait a few years " until all the required coursework is done . And , yes , even then , one is not over-educated . Seriously , I think ( and recommend to my students ) that they maintain several different threads . The two main ones are attention to standard core material and more advanced courses , while also trying to skip forward to read about current events . The trickier third thread is trying to back-fill from current events to " standard material " , as needed . Almost any choice of " single thread " seems misguided .
paper = article : In the academic meaning of the words , papers and articles refer to the same thing : a published piece of writing . The term is used for journal papers or journal articles , which means they have been published by a journal , but also for less traditional publications , including self-publication ( " Dr. Who just published a great paper on the intricacies of time travel on his webpage " ) and e-print repositories such as arXiv ( " check out the latest paper by Galileo on arXiv , that guy has mad ideas ! " ) . Some journals have different categories of " articles " , and differentiate between letters , communications , reports , reviews , and full papers ( sometimes abbreviated as just " papers " ) . In usage I have seen , paper ( or article ) used as a generic term covers all of those : you would say , for example , that " letters and full papers are two types of articles " . A preprint ( more commonly used without the hyphen ) refers to the distribution , in advance of formal publication , of something that will be published in print . The preprint may differ from the final publication . Preprint status does not always indicate that the work has been formally accepted for publication . It just means the authors intend to publish it in a more formal venue ( journal , book , etc. ) but wanted to distribute by other means beforehand ( preprints used to be distributed to colleagues as photocopies , but are now mostly circulated by email or repositories ) . A manuscript is , in the New Oxford American Dictionary 's words , " an author 's text that has not yet been published " . Any piece of writing that you have not published in any way ( but intend to ) is a manuscript . A draft is the same as a manuscript , except that it insists on the unfinished state of the manuscript . Summarizing , I could say : Here 's the draft I 've been working on , please amend it with your corrections . Once we have done this final round of revision , I will upload the manuscript to the editor 's website , and we can start circulating it as a preprint to colleagues whom you think may be interested . Once it is accepted and published , we 'll just send them the published version of the paper for their records .
" Docent " or " D " or " gepromoveerd docent " is a teaching-only position ( or with a minimum amount of research time , like 20 % ) , while a " Universitair Docent " or " UD " is someone who has much more research time ( e.g. , 40 % ) . Also , there are much more tenured UD 's ( " UD met een vast contract " ) than tenured D 's . After I finished my PhD , I was docent for a year ( basically because I did not get an UD position ) , basically teaching a lot , then I became UD , and now I 'm a tenured UD . While there are some exceptions , a rule of thumb could be that a D-position is a teaching-only and often something temporarily , while a UD position is something that can be potentially permanent and involves research time .
In <URL> they explain the subject in detail In general regarding honorary academic titles for non-employees it is written : To recognise the association , the College may confer an honorary academic title on a non-employee during the period of their association ... The title to be conferred will depend on the level of distinction and qualification of the candidate . And specifically with regard to " honorary lecturer " : Honorary Lecturer : Must continue in teaching , research or joint industry/academic activity to an appropriately high level
There 's a wide range of people called adjunct faculty . For example , it may include working professionals in the field who serve as part-time faculty ( this is common in law and architecture , and I 've seen it with industrial researchers in computer science ) . Depending on the circumstances , this sort of adjunct may be treated much like the other faculty in the department , except for being part time . However , I assume you are talking about the most common use of the term " adjunct " , at least in the US , namely low-paid , low-status faculty typically teaching part time on temporary contracts . ( They may be working full time overall , but only part time at any given institution , so the universities can avoid paying benefits . ) For this sort of adjunct , it really depends on the details of the contract , and it may vary between universities , as well as depending on issues such as whether any of the courses are online . A typical arrangement will include some amount of course design ( at least at the level of creating a syllabus ) , lecturing , grading , and office hours . Typically there is no committee work or other service and no research duties .
Typically no , Community College transfer credit does n't detract from your CV or Resume . The second part of your question is harder -- is a State University a disadvantage compared to a high performance private school ? And that answer really depends on your plans . If you plan on entering the workforce right after graduation then going to a small not known school can be a disadvantage for a few reasons : Job recruiters may skip your school . But that does n't mean you 're out of luck because you 're certainly able to apply to any job that has an opening . Many times people who make the hiring decisions like to hire from either where they went to school or a school where they 've tended to really get good workers from . So a small school that is an unknown can be a hindrance here . But there is one good reason to go to a small school ( aside from not having crippling debt as you 've already pointed out ) . At a small school you have better access to faculty than a large R1 University . At a large University you 're mainly in contact with TAs . At a small school you get to know faculty and you will end up getting better letters from those faculty than some TA . These letters from faculty who know you are a great asset because they can help you get into a good graduate school , where letters of recommendation are probably the most important part of your application . Once you get into a good grad school you 're set because then you 're likely to be at an institution where the hiring manager went , or where they 've gotten good applicants . In general where you went becomes more and more important as you approach a terminal degree . So definitely do n't worry about going to Community College .
If you 're interested in history of mathematics , then Latin would very likely be helpful ; until the 18th century or so , most mathematics done in Europe was written in Latin . For studying modern mathematics , Latin is n't so useful . I 'm a mathematician and have studied a little Latin , and it has n't really been directly useful . Sometimes it helps a little in understanding a word 's roots , but not much beyond that . On the other hand , I do fairly often need to read a paper in French ; there 's a signficant amount of current and recent mathematics research written in French . However , this is n't too hard even though I 've never formally studied French . The vocabulary and language used in mathematical writing , while specialized , is quite limited . And I know some Spanish , which is helpful in figuring out the grammar where needed . So for mathematics , neither one is strictly needed , but given the choice I 'd choose French .
Typically , in the departments and universities I 'm familiar with , as a student you 're also an employee of your current institution , benefiting from their space at the very least and participating in the local research culture . As such , it 's appropriate to keep the branding on your job talk slides since it 's not just some obligation to the university to credit them , but it grounds you in a context of the research at that university . Additionally , it 's appropriate to keep your acknowledgement slides if there are people to acknowledge . Many PhDs are done as part of a team , and so you should n't drop this credit from your slides . That being said , in a job talk , even a short , introductory one , you should concentrate on the parts that you did . You probably should n't spend the time reading off all the names and roles of the people who contributed . Now , given that this talk is short and intended to only be about how you fit the role , it 's not even clear to me that you should be treating this as a traditional job talk about your research . I would focus down on the posted criteria and carefully and thoughtfully address how you satisfy them . Presumably you 're being given the opportunity later in the interview day to give a traditional academic job talk ( i.e. an hour-long seminar ) , and that 's the place where you can dive into your research , credit your team members , funding agency , etc. .
Putting in place a better system for evaluating teaching than today 's student evaluation forms would be a good start . Getting serious about the assessment of student learning outcomes ( rather than simply assigning grades ) would also be extremely helpful .
end question
start question
Can I include an author URL as part of the affiliation block in an IEEE Conference Paper ?
Sure . The IEEE <URL> even includes an example of an author who gives a web URL in the affiliation block : Michael Shell School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta , Georgia 30332 -- 0250 Email : <URL> The variety of examples in the template further make it clear that authors can choose whether or not to include details such as email , web URL , address , telephone number , and fax ( ! ) number in the author affiliation block .
There are two separate issues here : omitting the proof , and calling it an exercise . It is relatively common to omit some proofs in research papers . In particular , proofs that are long but routine , or that re-use the same method as other proofs in the paper , are often abbreviated or removed . It depends on the intended audience for the paper , to some extent . You will get a sense of this by reading more research papers . But caution is needed : one of the first places to look for errors in a paper is in results where the proof was omitted ! The question whether to call something in your paper an " exercise " is more difficult . I would n't be surprised if some people do it -- but some people do n't write very well . The audience for a paper includes your peers , and you are not really in a position to assign them homework . There are other ways to indicate that a proof is easy besides calling it an exercise : " the following theorem follows directly from definitions " , " the proof of the following theorem is routine " , " the proof of the following theorem is similar to the proof of Theorem 1.3 " , etc. . Giving a small hint of how to prove the result can make the paper stronger , and it helps any readers who are not experts in the area .
It depends on the field , and in particular on the venue in which you are publishing . It 's possible that some journals and conferences might have policies about this , which would of course override anything you read here . But in general : nobody checks ( or cares ) whether the name you put on a published paper matches your official name . So if you use an informal variant of your name , e.g. if your name is " Stephen " but you publish as " Steve " , nobody will bat an eyelid . If you use a nickname or publish under a pseudonym , it would be a little odd if the nickname is something that sounds very informal , but still , it probably wo n't cause problems . What people do care about is building a record of your work , and putting a face to the name if they know your face . So you should ( 1 ) be consistent with the name you use to publish , and ( 2 ) make sure other people in the field know that it refers to you .
I would thank him in the acknowledgments . Although there is no set standard for what is required to be an author , it is generally accepted that they must make a research contribution . Proofreading definitely does n't meet that criterion ( or any of the other criteria that I have seen ) . I did this in one of my recent papers . I just said : We would also like to thank Bob Bob for his helpful feedback on a draft of the paper .
As @Jukka Suomela has indicated in the comments , yes , you will . The relevant policy for IEEE ( from <URL> ) is : 8 . Electronic Preprints . Before submitting an article to an IEEE publication , authors frequently post their manuscripts to their own web site , their employer 's site , or to another server that invites constructive comment from colleagues . Upon submission of an article to IEEE , an author is required to transfer copyright in the article to IEEE , and the author must update any previously posted version of the article with a prominently displayed IEEE copyright notice . Upon publication of an article by the IEEE , the author must replace any previously posted electronic versions of the article with either ( 1 ) the full citation to the IEEE work with a Digital Object Identifier ( DOI ) or link to the article abstract in IEEE Xplore , or ( 2 ) the accepted version only ( not the IEEE-published version ) , including the IEEE copyright notice and full citation , with a link to the final , published article in IEEE Xplore . For ACM , from <URL> : ( b ) Furthermore , notwithstanding the exclusive rights the Owner has granted to ACM pursuant to Paragraph 2 ( a ) , Owner shall have the right to do the following : [ ... ] ( v ) Prior to commencement of the ACM peer review process , post the version of the Work as submitted to ACM ( " Submitted Version " ) to non-peer reviewed servers ... This answer is current as of August , 2014 .
Yes . I took both German and French . I was already fairly comfortable with French from having studied it in high school and in university , so I 'll write about German instead . I prepared for my German language exam by going on to the <URL> ( a program to retroactively digitise documents , including a lot of classical mathematics papers ) and downloading some papers in mathematical analysis ( my field , sort of ) from around the 1950s to 60s ( when still a lot of the papers were published in German ) . I then went to the library and borrowed the copy of <URL> ( for the nouns ) and a copy of a normal German-English dictionary ( for the verbs ) and sat myself down and started translating word by word . After about a month I translated about 30 pages or so of math papers ( and at the same time learned about uniform spaces ) , and proceeded to take my exam . Not much . I have absolutely no conversational German , and only very rarely do I have to look something up in German that I can not find a write-up in another language . ( So far twice only , one a slightly obscure result in algebraic lattices that the only reference I could find is to a paper in the 30s . ) ( French on the other hand has been useful ; mostly because the abovementioned " write-up in another language " often turned out to be in French . ) Given how much I 've found French to be useful for me , I 'm sure that if I had actually properly learned the language , German would be just about as useful . Conversely , if you do n't really learn the foreign language , you will probably be able to get by through other means in this day and age . The canonical place to find French papers to read is <URL> . Of course , for practice , you can also check out Bourbaki from the library ; it may be slightly less intimidating to start working first on the language by reading something whose mathematics at least you are familiar with .
Nope , and I doubt anyone would notice or care . Everyone can be a member , all it takes is a bit of money .
Some quotes from <URL> : ETH is a federal institute ( i.e. , under direct administration by the Swiss government ) , whereas the University of Zrich is a cantonal institution . [ ... ] In the beginning , both universities were co-located in the buildings of the University of Zrich . [ ... ] Events of the neighboring University of Zrich are well-attended by ETH students and vice versa . [ ... ] The amicable rivalry between ETH and the neighbouring University of Zrich has been cultivated since 1951 [ ... ]
You should be able to put both affiliations on . I assume you are permanently employed , in which case that is more permanent than the academic address . However , if your published work is done as part of your schooong you should put that affiliation first , perhaps listing your job affiliation/address as " permanent " or something describing your employment . The reason for putting your academic affiliation first is that it is within that you have done the work and probably received intellectual coaching and support ( if you receive similar input also from work then that affiliation might be equally valid as first ) . Listing two affiliations is common and the reason is typically when people move between institutes and it is important to keep readers aware of one whereabouts in such circumstances . In your case you will likely be found at your company in the future ( my assumption ) and it therefore makes sense to list also that .
Allow me to strongly disagree with eykanal 's answer . There is no universal standard . You must ask your advisor in advance what her coauthorship policy is . In theoretical computer science ( and mathematics ) , it is generally considered unethical to list someone as a co-author who has not made a novel and significant intellectual contribution to the paper . In particular , merely funding the research is not considered an intellectual contribution . Adding a supervisor 's name to a paper to which they have not directly , intellectually contributed is lying . In practice , writing a good grant proposal requires at least as much intellectual novelty as writing a good paper . Most of the good ideas that PIs pour into their proposals also appear in papers ; as long as those ideas constitute novel intellectual contributions , the PI merits co-authorship . But that only works once per idea ; once an idea has been published , it 's no longer novel , by definition . To be specific and personal : I am not a coauthor on all of my PhD students ' papers . ( Of course , I still report my students ' independent work back to NSF as outcomes on whatever grants supported them . So I still get credit from NSF for having the foresight to fund the student . ) The same is true of all the other theoretical computer science faculty in my department . My PhD advisor is a co-author on only one of the papers I published as a PhD student . My PhD advisor does n't have a single co-authored paper with his advisor .
Generally speaking , the name of the person registering does not have to be the same as the name on the credit card . You can pay for your co-author 's registration if you want . the IEEE discount applies if the person registering is an IEEE member , regardless of who is paying . If your co-author is registering to attend the conference , it 's fine for him to use your credit card ( if that 's what you want ) and he can still get the IEEE discount , since he 's an IEEE member . If you 're the one registering to attend the conference , you ca n't get the discount if you 're not an IEEE member .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
It sounds like a good thing to do , since the reviewing process for this journal is over . I would certainly appreciate it if I where the author of that article ( passed the frustration that generally follows article rejection ) . It 's almost certain that it will be submitted somewhere else , so your ( free ) inputs will benefit the authors and the community . This is valid , of course , only if you are not reviewer again in the next submission , you should definitely decline if it happens .
Ask for the code . Please do , however , explain why you want it and what you intend to use it for . Personally , I would be quite happy if someone contacted me about my research , and would try to give all the necessary tools to recreate my data . Especially so if I am not currently working on a follow up piece . That said , I 've asked for parameters , codes , procedures etc. several times from the authors when the description in a paper has been vague . I 've had a lot of different responses : Some have plain ignored me , others have given me everything I asked for , and yet others have only obliged when I 've suggested that I might be willing to put them as co-authors if I built upon their code in a way that leads to a publication . Finally , some have refused my request . This has happened for a number of reasons , for example those discussed in <URL> . If you ask for code and say that you just want to verify some of the conclusions of the authors or use it as a reference for your own implementation , you can most typically expect a refusal or no reply . This , at least , is the experience I 've had .
I assume that by course evaluations , this is a narrative faculty evaluation of your performance in a class that you are taking -- and not the case where you are TAing or teaching a course and your students are evaluating you . You can include it but undergraduate and graduate grades are very peripheral to most academic job applications -- except for entry level and post-docs when we have little else to evaluate you by . Even then , their use is fairly deprecated . You 're not going to be taking classes , you 're going to be teaching them . Include them just to be complete .
I would say the responsibility of the reviewer is to judge the content of the paper . So , checking if the format of the journal/conference has been followed is not part of this job . Very large and obvious deviations can be pointed out , but for example spotting that the font of the caption is in size 11 and not 10 is not part of a reviewers task .
I suppose the easiest way would be to use the command in LaTeX . Put something like this before your : Use it as follows . If you want to change the reference to a citation or another format , you can replace the contents of the As far as to " What is the best way to cite a website URL ? " the answer generally is that there is n't a standard . Personally , I use web sites as a citation if it contributes some kind of important intellectual argument to the paper . If I use web sites as a footnote , it 's because it has to do with some kind of tool I used and is there simply to inform the user that I used Tool XYZ . Using your example , if I said in my paper , " We used the Google search engine to identify evidence of bias in search engine results " I 'd probably put that as a footnote , whereas if I said , " Company web sites from Google , Microsoft , and Apple about employment all state that having fun at work is important " may be citations . ( I should finally note that this is a personal convention rather than anything spelled out in a styleguide , but maybe it helps you ? ) .
If the work is extending the original , then all of the original authors should be retained . New authors can certainly be added , however , if they have contributed to the extension .
Sure . The IEEE <URL> even includes an example of an author who gives a web URL in the affiliation block : Michael Shell School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta , Georgia 30332 -- 0250 Email : <URL> The variety of examples in the template further make it clear that authors can choose whether or not to include details such as email , web URL , address , telephone number , and fax ( ! ) number in the author affiliation block .
Should I still include a reference to indicate this image is not my own work YES If the idea is not yours , you need to reference it . Who should be given credit That is a harder question . Ideally , you should find the original author/source . Given a reasonable attempt to find the original author/source fails then reference the secondary/reproduction ( i.e. , wikipedia/wikimedia ) .
end question
start question
External advisor for graduate students ?
I believe this is an institution-dependent issue . Different departments and schools may have very different approaches as to what is formally allowed . In this day and age , however , collaborations , particularly between different departments or institutions , is generally looked on favorably . Whether it rises to an " official " arrangement or not , however , is clearly a different matter . I do n't believe that this is normally done via an employment contract ; I think this is handled according to the regulations of the department -- so the chair or graduate officer ( or whoever normally approves student-advisor matches ) would have to sign off on the arrangement . The responsibility for making sure all appropriate procedures are followed , however , lies with the advising team . ( In general , this only matters with respect to the thesis committee and matters related to the thesis defense itself . ) The only other situation which might complicate matters is if both advisors are jointly funding the student ; then the situation is certainly thornier . However , for such purposes , usually one advisor is the " hosting " advisor who has the primary responsibility for the student , which normally obviates the need for a complicated contract .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
I would break this down into two parts . First , discuss your circumstances with your advisor and explain that you want to spend more time " at home " , and ask how he feels about you working remotely . Go into the discussion with a concrete proposal for how the practicalities might work : how will you do your work ? Do you have access to the resources you 'll need ? How will you stay in touch with your advisor/colleagues/the research community ? Take on board any reservations your advisor might have ; do n't go into the discussion with too fixed an idea of what the " right " outcome is . Agree to review the arrangements once they 've been tested for a while . Once you have agreement in principle , then you can hash out the dates . I would try and start with relatively short stretches of remote working - a couple of weeks - to allow any teething problems/concerns ( on either side ) to be resolved . I suspect everyone will be happier if you can spend your six months away in short chunks , rather than in one big block . Also , recognise that your advisor may have reasons to want you present for certain occasions/portions of the year - involve him in your planning .
I 've had classes of this size where I have each student do an individual presentation . It is very time consuming but I also feel it can be very worthwhile . If you give each student 10 minutes to present some information and you have 50 students then you will have 12-13 hours for presentations ( allowing 15 minutes total per student including Q&amp;A , changing students , etc. ) If you teach in 2-hour sessions then it will consume 6-7 sessions . If you have 30-32 sessions per semester it is doable but it also removes a significant chunk of time from lecturing . In my case , I lectured for several weeks ( giving the students time to do their research and giving them the foundations they needed for their presentations ) and then had the students give their presentations . Then I continued lecturing with other assessments later on . The module was not about presentation skills but I do feel that in each subject , we need to teach the students some general skills ( structuring an argument , how to format text , how to research , giving a presentation , etc. ) in addition to the module content . The students ended up understanding the material quite well when judged by their presentations and I found many of them quite eager to learn how they could improve their presentation skills . In the end , I was happy with the overall results and plan to do it again .
First , the bad news . The best predictor for the potential for securing funding is a history of having secured funding . Second , strengthen and tailor your application . If you 're a newly-minted PhD , make sure to include grants or awards relevant to your application . For example , you must include the summer research fellowship you won from the university , or the publication award you won from the professional association . Make sure that you provide enough information to assist the assessor . For example , you may wish to explain the point of the fellowship , how much it was worth , and what your outcomes were . I have encountered many examples of resumes of this sort : Summer 1995 - Summer research fellowship to Jordan With a little more information , you can make this pop : Summer 1995 - Summer research fellowship ( $ 15,000 ) . Six-week visit to the field site of Dr James Gilman in Betthorus ( Jordan ) to assist in excavations and measurements of battlements . Output : one oral presentation and one publication ( doi : ... ) . The 33 extra words makes a difference , I think . Importantly , to an assessor , it shows that you can turn money into research output . Third , understand that a demonstration takes many forms . If you 've got limited history of grant success ( or even if you do n't ) , use this as a chance to show the assessor that you 've got a practical plan to attract grant funding . You can lay this out clearly in your research statement . The assessor will be looking for such things as a coherent research plan that is related to the research areas of the group ( lab , department , etc ) . You ca n't demonstrate funding success if you ca n't articulate a meaningful and important research plan . Plus , no matter how great your plan , if it 's outside the scope of the group , then you just look idiotic proposing it because it shows your lack of understanding of the group 's goals . your knowledge of the developments in the field , especially your capacity ( or willingness ) to collaborate with internal and external partners . Show how your work relates to the work of other members of the group . Show that you have networks outside the group that you might be able to tap . your understanding of the scope and processes involved in the major granting bodies in your field . You need to give them confidence that you 've got a submission plan involving when you intend to develop and submit your applications . Review the application forms and instructions of the major granting bodies . Try to complete them yourself to get the hang of it . If you have access to it , see if you can study the copies of successful grants from your supervisor or other members of the group . Learn how to construct budgets ( which is something they barely teach you in a typical PhD ) . your resilience in the face of knock-backs . Grant submission is better seen as a cycle , not a path . The latter has an end , implying that if you do n't get the grant , you drop the idea and move on . It 's more realistic to consider grant submission as a means of refining a research idea and that rejections come with valuable comments that allow you to improve for the next round . Fourth , be aware of the start-up costs that you will need to fund your work . Unless you come with your own funding already secured ( in which case this post is really irrelevant to you ) , you will need to do some work on your own while you submit applications . Many groups provide start-up funding , but this is capped and you need understand how this works . Fifth , be careful of ( over ) confidence . Receiving external funding is hard . Do n't give assessors the impression that your work is so obviously the next big thing that hiring you will result in money falling out of the sky . That might be the case , but more likely than not , you 'll simply come off like an airhead . I 'm sure there are many other points , but these are the ones I can list before I head to an appointment with a dentist . Good luck to you ( and to me ) !
You may use the books available in which some preparation exams ( sample tests and past tests ) are published and you can study those exams and sample tests . Some of these books and preparation materials are available in <URL> page on <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . If you are seeking for free online sample exams and studying materials , there are some preparation materials for exam available in different websites over the net , which you can find by a <URL> .
Yes , it is perfectly appropriate to refer to students in a class you are TAing as " my students . " You are teaching them ; hence , they are your students . It does n't really matter whether or not you are the primary instructor .
Good question . I am a tenured ( associate ) math professor at UGA . To be ( too ? ) honest , I sometimes find graduate visitation days to be slightly awkward . With most of the students , they and I want to have something to talk about ; for many of the students , we will have something to talk about at some future point ; for a few of the students , we will become so close that it will be hard to remember these first awkward conversations . I just remembered a visitation day where I almost sullenly plopped myself down at a barroom table next to a certain prospective student and a bunch of current students . They were more trying to have a conversation than actually having a conversation . At one point the topic turned to some elementary topology problem the prospective student had in mind for some reason . One of the current students was studying topology and she got interested and started to try to work it out . Alas I was still bored , and after a few minutes I quietly uttered a few words . The current student paused for a second , then her eyes lit up , and very soon after I got my chance to politely excuse myself and get another drink . That prospective student is now my PhD student , but the bond was not forged on that day . But still , we should try . 1 ) I hear you study X. I 've studied only a little bit of it so far , but I remember learning about Y. Can you tell me a little about your work ? " Can you tell me about your work ? " is a very natural question that sadly can often be a showstopper . The honest answer for many professors when talking to perfectly capable students who may later turn out to be their students is often " Not very meaningfully , no . " Above I tried to frame the question in a little better way . How is it better ? Well for one thing , asking a professor in a department you 're visiting what they do can come off as lazy : almost everyone has a wealth of information available on their webpage now . If the student really cared , would n't they look a little bit in advance ? So the framing of the question shows that the student has looked a little bit in advance . It also clues the professor in to what might be an appropriate level at which to pitch the explanation . If X is number theory ( as it is for me ) , then if Y is " Wilson 's Theorem " I 'm going to say something very different than if Y is " the Chebotarev Density Theorem " . Still it 's probably best not to say too much . I remember asking one professor this when I was a prospective student and he said , " Yes , I study number theory , as do several other faculty members here . I guess what distinguishes me is that I 've also become very interested in representation theory , and my work uses that to a larger extent than the others . Does that make sense to you ? " The person who said this to me was Dick Gross , and yes it did make sense , and as a two sentence orientation to who he was and what he did it functioned brilliantly then and it still does , but I see now what a lot of confidence and experience he must have had to know to say so little . And he asked me if I understood , and if I had n't he probably would have said something else : he seemed like a nice guy ... and it turns out that he is . ( I do n't remember what I said after that . I think it would have been like me at the time to try to show some knowledge by asking a question -- that 's a young math student type of thing to do . So I 'll imagine that I asked " What kind of representation theory ? " because I would have known that there were finite groups , Lie groups and so forth . And Gross would have replied " Algebraic groups " . At that point I would have had to admit that I was totally lost ... and my being lost would be of no lasting significance : suffice it to say that I have since learned about that topic ! ) 2 ) Do you do any computer work ? I think that 's an increasingly important question . Nowadays a math student has to locate himself on the spectrum of more computation / less computation . If you 're thinking about working with a faculty member , you definitely want to know this . 3 ) Are you interested in real-world applications of your work ? Have you ever done any consulting or other outside work ? Again , a key question . You should already be starting to think about these sorts of questions for yourself . I , for instance , have absolutely zero contacts in industry , so I would be a terrible advisor for a student who was inclined in that direction , even if we had common mathematical interests . 4 ) How long have you been here ? That 's a nice question for one human being to ask another . The professor will probably respond with some personal information about the town or their housing situation or their family or ... something . 5 ) Where did you get your PhD ? You would think that would be a kind of backward-looking question to ask a professor , but actually academics ask each other that kind of thing all the time . Sad to say we really do try to have little portions of the CVs of hundred
This advice is based on Computer Science mostly , and it may or may not apply directly to you . As far as I understand your area is only marginally related to Computer Science through the fact that you 're interested in Algorithmic Trading . Everything depends on two factors : your goals and the speed with which you are able to learn and create the things that you need to do in order to achieve your goals . If your goal is to be a professor at TU Vienna , then you will obviously at some point need to submit a PhD thesis and later a Habilitation thesis . The PhD thesis can have 3 to 6 papers in good conferences and one - two papers in some journals , and your habilitation thesis will consist of a minimum of 5 articles in good journals ( A-level journals ) . You will also have to submit some grant proposals and after you manage to get those grants to finish them successfully ( typically the requirement is to have EU grants or ERC grants ) . So you will have to produce at least 15 conference articles , 8-10 journal articles , 2 thesis , and 2 grants in order to get to an Assistant Professor or Professor in Vienna . If you manage to get every paper accepted first time when you submit it ( something unheard of ) , you will still need 10 - 15 years to get to Assistant Professorship or Professorships ( counting from the first year of your PhD ) . Keep in mind that at TU , Assistant or Junior Professorships appear only once at two years or so ( and just one position ) . Most of the people I know from Vienna ( TU Vienna , WU , IST Austria , etc ) were able to finish PhD thesis in 4-5 years ( full time ) or 7-8 years ( part-time ) , so there is no reason to consider that it might take a decade . The system also makes you quit really fast ( after 1-2 years ) if you do not want ( or you are not able for some reason ) to put in the effort that is required in order to create at least a decent thesis . The professor will stop talking to you if you do n't make any progress for a number of months , for example , or if your papers are not accepted at top conferences . What you need to understand is that your supervisor is your guide , but you will eventually make the journey alone . The supervisor will just help you polish your articles or thesis . These being said , before applying for a PhD , I would check the CVs , thesis and articles written by TU Professors ( Thomas Eiter , Georg Gottlob , Radu Grosu , Silvia Micksh , Stefan Woltran , etc ) . It helps a lot , as their expectations are that you will produce some work that is at least partially connected to their last articles ( so that your work will also fit into their various research projects ) . Also try to talk with some of their students ( you can easily detect them by looking through their CVs - they might have a PhD students entry - or through DBLP or Scholar by looking at their latest publications and identifying collaborators that only published few papers in the last 2-3 years ) . Try to understand what a PhD means , what are the expectations , and what is the amount of work you need to put in order to get to good results . I would also recommend you to check these interesting slides from one of the professors I just mentioned : <URL> . The idea is to try to estimate the expectations , the amount of work needed and the time you think you will need in order to fulfill this work . The actual number of papers depends a lot on the domain in which you are working , but also on the quality of the outlets where you will publish ( you might end up with a smaller number of papers if all of them are only in the top outlets for your field ) . Good luck ! Disclaimer : I do not directly work with any of the persons already mentioned , but I do work at a university from Vienna .
I looked at your other questions , which were quite enlightening . Given that you had already publicly revealed other relevant facts about yourself , e.g. <URL> , I do n't know why you did n't include them in your question . Any such details are highly pertinent , and would help people give better and more " customized " answers . To summarize from your previous question , you are 32 , live in Bangladesh , have an IT background , work in a bank , and are afraid your job is taking you nowhere . I 'm Indian , and left India to study in both the UK and the US , at different times . So my background is not so dissimilar , and I can relate to some extent . However , the fact remains that your question is so broad that it is difficult to give useful information without knowing you . Given that you are from Bangladesh , I 'm guessing that part of your interest in further studies abroad is to get away from Bangladesh . Also , there are presumably not that many routes out of Bangladesh besides being a student . If so , I sympathize . However , from your previous question it sounds like you were planning to get a degree locally before going abroad . If so , it sounds like your question might be premature . If you are n't currently associated with a university or already have a relevant higher degree , then going abroad as a student would be very difficult . Are you still planning to enroll in a local Master 's program ? Or have you decided to go for a Master 's degree abroad ? The answer by shane , I think , covers some of the issues you will probably run into as an Asian student in the West . How good or bad a situation you find it depends on a complex set of factors including : Your area of study Your university and location The local community from your area/country . ( Assuming you get on well with people from your background ) How successful you are at your subject What kind of advisor you end up with How much you dislike your native country . If you really dislike it , you may have an easier time adjusting to a foreign culture . If you happen to be from a very " sheltered " background , which is not uncommon in traditional Asian cultures , then living away from your family and culture could be good for you . In many ways the West ( which it seems you are contemplating ) is much more open culturally then a place like Bangladesh . However , how you respond will be up to you . You may find it frightening rather than empowering . In my case , I was from a sheltered background , and had a difficult time . Grad education is a rough business , and study abroad is not for the faint-hearted . However , I can say that I do not regret it at all . It was ( I think ) very good for me . I learned to be much more confident and independent . I am now quite a different person than the person I would have been if I never left India . Having said that , as shane says , grad school is n't the ideal way to go about self-improvement , if you have a choice . Of course , as I have observed above , you may not have a choice .
Having a paper that was not peer reviewed but is available from arXiv will help you just as much , and in exactly the same way , as having a paper that was not peer reviewed and is available from any other easily accessed online source . The main things that are important are that : You have written a paper ( according to some definition of " paper " ) . The paper can easily be accessed and looked at by anyone wishing to evaluate your strength as a grad school applicant . Note that the value of such a paper to your admission prospects can actually be negative if it is clearly of very poor quality , shows delusional tendencies ( e.g. , a paper with the title " A simple proof of the Riemann Hypothesis " ) , or comes across as a dishonest attempt to create a false impression that you have done something important when clearly you have n't . Setting aside such obvious exceptions , an arXiv paper will probably have a positive , but in most cases not very large , value for your applications .
My experience is limited to anecdotes . What I have generally seen is that students usually attempt to get either a paid industrial internship or an paid/unpaid research internship with a particular research group . In fact , I have been mentoring an undergraduate who is graduating in the middle of the semester and is preparing to spend the next 6 months working as a research assistant ( paid ~ $ 15/hour ) for a research group in our university before joining a prestigious PhD program in another university .
I feel this is a difficult situation , with a number of variables that should influence your decision : Is your advisor completely gone ( e.g. , in complete retirement , gone to industry , or even dead ) , or has he just left for a different academic post ? If he is completely gone , you may need to find somebody to supervise you in your day-to-day research . If he has just moved on to a different university , it is possible that you want somebody to " formally " be your PhD advisor , but practically keep on working remotely with your old advisor . Whether you even want to keep on working remotely with your old advisor depends on how advanced you are and how well you worked with her/him beforehand . Are you advanced enough that you can finish your thesis more or less on your own ? That is , do you need an advisor or an examiner for your thesis ? If it is the latter , then pretty much anybody who is sufficiently well-versed in your area could act as your advisor for the finishing sprint . If you actually feel like you still need a lot of input to get your thesis ready , it will be harder to find somebody who can and is willing to take you on midway . If you are advanced and your advisor is only moving to a different university , it should be reasonably easy for you to find a " local proxy " without having to adapt your research plan too much . How set-in-stone is your research plan ? Or , in other words , how ready are you to adapt to the research agenda of another advisor ? Generally , if you really do n't want to change your research , but you also feel like you still need a lot of input , it is likely that you will have problems finding a suitable new advisor . If you are happy to change research topics , finding an advisor should not be more difficult than the first time . How does your funding work ? That is , do you " only " need a new advisor , or do you need a new advisor and a new funding source ( e.g. , project , grant ) ? Clearly , the former case will make it much easier to find a new advisor . In the second case , you will need to be willing to change your research plan somewhat , as few professors will be ready to dish out grant money if the student is not actually working on their projects . Are you a good student ? Ok , this may be somewhat controversial , but clearly if you have been an overperformer so far , it will be substantially easier to convince another professor to take you on . Similarly , if you already have great publications in your research , it will be much easier to convince a professor that you want to continue working on this concrete research idea and not change to whatever other project your new advisor has in mind . Are you willing to change universities ? If so , maybe coming along with your old advisor is an option ? So how does this help you ? In a first step , you need to reflect on all of these points to figure out what kind of advisor you actually want/need . Then go over the list of potential faculty that formally could serve as advisor . Think about how your collaboration with each of those potential advisors could work , and what you would need from them . Get in touch with the ones that seem most suitable ( as you already study there I am assuming you can just send them a mail , or have your current advisor put you in contact ) , and discuss the issue with them . Select the one that ( a ) is willing to take you on , and ( b ) you feel is most consistent with your answers to the questions above .
From what I 've heard the NSF fellowship is not an easy one to get , and having one seems to carry some sort of prestige . Sure , the program may have accepted you on the ground that they do n't have to pay you , but the fact that you have an NSF fellowship may have changed the admission committee 's perception of your ability , which could be what tipped the balance in your favour . No matter what , there is no point in dwelling on the past . What matters is how you perform in the program now , not how you got in . Do n't be the college freshman who keeps talking about his high school athletic achievement ; truth be told , nobody cares . As for your lack of passion for the subject , I want to point out that passion usually does not precede mastery of a subject . Rather , people usually develop passion after they become good at something . So I do n't really think lacking passion at this point is a deal breaker . I 'm sure astrophysics is large enough for you to find something that you are good at and can develop a passion for . Of course , if you ca n't see yourself doing research , teaching , or anything science-related in the future , you might want to rethink about your decision to go to graduate school in the first place .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
The value is going to be hard to quantify , as it will likely depend on you , the people reading the application , your field , etc. . It will range in the eye of the reader somewhere between " 0 " and " Less Than a Published Paper " . Things a Paper " In Prep " Does Do : It shows you 're thinking about research enough to want to write a paper about it , and have engaged in actually doing so . How big of a deal this is alone likely depends on your field , institution , etc. . If you give an interview , it gives people a targeted thing to talk about . I 've been asked questions about a manuscript ' in submission ' before , because the interviewer thought it sounded interesting . These kind of directed questions , in something you 're hopefully very comfortable talking about , are probably more useful than " So ... tell me about yourself . " Things It Does n't Do : Critically , it does n't actually show that you can write a paper . It shows that you can write something you 've decided to call a paper , but the key act of academia , getting it published has n't happened yet . Depending on how well your advisor is known by the admissions people , you might get some credit for " Dr. Superbigdeal would n't let anything come out of her lab unless it was solid gold ... " but I would n't count on it . Or alternatively , I could submit my draft and wait for the reviewer 's opinion , so I can put mark the paper as " in review " . This will serve as a proof that my work is mature enough to be seen by others . But is it worth it ? I 'm not sure this will meaningfully change the value of a paper . Getting it published ? Major shift in its value . Shifting from in prep to in review ... distinctly less so . Because again , it 's lacking that last critical piece of being actually accepted . The difference between the two can be as trivial as a few buttons on a website , and personally , I would treat the difference as such .
tl ; dr No registration fees , networking and attending relevant sessions . There has been some talk and background informationabout this already . See <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> for some background . With this background , IMHO , the primary reasons why PhD students should be volunteers for major conferences in their line at least once are : First up , no registration fees . Yay ! Primary reason one . Networking with other PhD student volunteers who are likely to be PhD students in similar departments working on similar stuff . For instance , most student volunteers at CHI 2013 are PhD students from HCI/CS/IS / ischools working on HCI stuff . Its great to meet with peers and bond with them . [ Yay for student volunteer party ! ] Possible networking with relevant faculty . This could be someone from the organizing committee or the program committee or someone else who you come in close contact with for the duration of the conference . There might be a certain someone who is a good researcher in your line and whom you might want to keep in touch with in the future . Getting in touch as a student volunteer in a conference might be one such strategy . Picking and choosing conference sessions/tracks to attend . You could , with some dexterity be the student volunteer in charge of a track or a session or a panel which you are really really interested in watching . As a student volunteer pretty much , you stand and assist and you do get one of the best seats in the house , albeit by standing . :)
What you are getting paid when you are not working for your university should not matter . Taking it to a ( albeit artificial and ridiculous ) extreme , if a top programmer in industry , with a salary of 100k $ / year joins a doctoral program in June , would you consider that his salary from January to May is enough so you can not pay him for a couple of years ? In my view ( and some jurisdictions too ) , working for free is very close to slavery , and should be avoided when possible . So , absolutely , you can go ahead and ask her if she will fund you . Your situation is good in the way that if she says no you will have a backup . With this said , I can understand if she refuses . If it is a single , non continued project , it is not as efficient to hire a person for one month as for three , and if you are not going to do it , she may use the funds to hire someone else for the full time . If you are going to continue doing your usual work during that month , there is not so much difference between being there one or three months , and your case is stronger . As an extra , during your fellowship , you will probably learn a bunch of new things , so you are an extra asset for your group . You can also offer to give a few seminars on what you have learned in partial exchange for the funding .
The division of intellectual property rights will be explicitly specified in every research contract negotiated by competent personnel , no matter who the funder is . In my experience , I have seen that the typical arrangements fall into five rough categories along a spectrum of control : The researcher 's organization retains all IP rights . The researcher 's organization retains all IP rights , but automatically grants a non-exclusive license to the funding organization . The researcher 's organization retains all IP rights , but the funding organization has an option to exclusively license all IP rights . The researcher 's organization transfers all IP rights to the funding organization , but retains an automatic license to the IP . The researcher 's organization transfers all IP rights to the funding organization . Research contracts also often divide a project into different areas that mix and match these rights . For example , the researcher 's organization might have non-exclusive licensing ( # 2 ) for all basic research work , but transfer all rights for a planned prototype ( # 5 ) to the funding organization . Corporately funded research contracts tend to fall anywhere along the spectrum from # 2 to # 5 , depending on the nature of the research and the motivation for the contract . More basic research tends to be viewed as " pre-competitive , " and companies funding such research will generally be large and with a long view and happy to grant liberal rights , since they are more concerned with reshaping their strategic landscape ( e.g. , extending <URL> ) and trust their ability to build internally off of basic research breakthroughs . More applied research and research funded by smaller companies tends to be more immediately relevant to competitive advantage : it tends to have much more tightly restricted IP rights and at its most applied shades into consulting .
Becoming overweight is not an issue per se . Major physical changes , however , are often a sign of an major ongoing mental or physical health event . Rapid weight gain , for example , is often associated with depression or thyroid problems , both of which can have a major impact on the student 's ability to learn and work . As such , I would definitely be concerned if a student was visibly gaining a large amount of weight -- not because of attractiveness or disapproval of weight , but because of what else it might indicate . I would find it highly inappropriate , however , to bring this up with the student by saying something like " I 've noticed you 've gained a lot of weight " because there are also a lot of more benign reasons somebody might gain weight , including recovering from mental or physical health problems that would also be none of my business . I would , however , notice it as a possible red flag , and start to keep a more careful eye out for other signs of distress , which might legitimately trigger a conversation about , for example , mental health .
end question
start question
Should I include a reference for an image that is released into the public domain ?
Should I still include a reference to indicate this image is not my own work YES If the idea is not yours , you need to reference it . Who should be given credit That is a harder question . Ideally , you should find the original author/source . Given a reasonable attempt to find the original author/source fails then reference the secondary/reproduction ( i.e. , wikipedia/wikimedia ) .
If this is for an application for university , then you do not need to date your personal statement . That is because your application as a whole is dated and signed by you at the very end . Otherwise , you can initialize and date it at the end of the document , e.g. : KN 2014.06.30
All else being equal , the variety would be beneficial . I agree with Anonymous Physicist that the specific content of the letters is most important . However , if you do n't have a strong preference based on who you think will write the best letters , I would go with your instinct of getting one letter from each job . Showing that you can succeed in multiple contexts , in different kinds of work , is a good thing .
It is considered an undergraduate degree because no degree is required in order to start the degree . Undergraduate masters degrees are increasingly common in the UK , <URL> . Postgraduate taught degrees are not currently eligible for government funding , so an integrated masters degree is often the cheapest route to a masters degree . The integrated MEng degree developed early , since an accredited masters is a requirement to become a chartered engineer in the UK . Such courses , at least in theory , include the content of a bachelors degree , plus the content of a standalone postgraduate masters degree , often with an option to abandon early and receive a bachelor 's degree . PhDs , MScs and MPhils almost invariably require a degree as an entry requirement , hence they are postgraduate degrees .
If you have published a paper , you should include it in your CV . It does not matter what language the paper is in . For the aid of people who do not speak the language , however , you may wish to include a translation of the paper title as a note , e.g. , : J. Caesar , Commentarii de Bello Gallico [ Commentaries on the Gallic war ] , Caesar House Press , 49 BC , ( in Latin )
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
He should just use his official employer . There are lots of scientific papers from people with affiliations in industry . Most of the time , these authors are working for companies in technical fields that are at least somewhat related to the research , but not always . ( I knew of somebody who was still working with his doctoral advisor doing research in theoretical particle physics , while he was employed at a company making speech recognition software , and the software company was his listed affiliation . ) Especially if most of the other authors have more conventional affiliations , listing a consulting company for one authors is not going to raise any eyebrows . If the manuscript was completely written while he was a student , he could use his university affiliation , with a footnote indicating his current position . However , I would imagine in this case that the text was not finalized until after the author moved into industry , in which case the university affiliation is not appropriate .
Many schools will require you to take remediation courses if they do not feel you meet the course requirements for the graduate program . They will be fairly upfront about what they think you would need , but it will mean taking more Bachelors level classes at cost before being accepted to the program . In general I would show any additional work you have done to improve your programming skills , including code you have written . A lot of qualified people do not apply to top schools ( I.E. MIT ) because they do not believe they would get in . But I would not recommend focusing on any one school and instead find a few programs you like and apply to all of them . Some schools will allow you to take classes as a non-degree seeking student , which would provide both a way to prove yourself and also gauge the program and its suitability to you . I would check with the program to see how many credits they accept through this method though . As an aside , I am in the same boat . I majored in Mathematics with a minor in Physics but have been working as a programmer for the last three years . I am now looking into online masters programs in Computer Engineering or Computer Science .
Justifications are for claims you make that need to be justified . Everyone reading your paper will know about Newton 's second law . Everyone reading one of my papers ( in quantum theory ) will know Schrodinger 's equation . I do n't think people generally cite them , because everyone will need to know them to understand anything in the paper even a little . On the other hand , I do n't know what " Coulomb 's friction model " is off the top of my head . If you introduce this , you should cite it . In general , if it 's something that 's well-established ( but not necessarily well-known ) I often see people referencing a textbook . This is quite common for things like mathematical theories . If it 's less well-established or more particular , find a paper or review article . My main recommendation , however , is to learn from your surroundings . If you 're writing a paper , you must be citing a lot of previous work . What do they say , and what do they cite ? That can tell you what the expected norms are in your field .
Most organizations that have set requirements for applications refuse to look at any supplementary materials that are submitted in order to be fair to those who did not submit supplementary materials . The National Science Foundation , in many cases , reserves the right to return proposals without review that have certain kinds of unrequested or forbidden supplementary materials . I think it 's best to only submit what was asked for .
First thing : the exact format will depend on the styleguide your are following . However , apart from variations in the exact formatting , just refer to it exactly as you do . The US constitution , for example , would be cited <URL> : U.S. Const . art . I ,  3 . U.S. Const . amend . XIX . U.S. Const . amend . XVIII ( repealed 1933 ) . depending on whether you cite an article from the original constitution , or a ( possibly since-repealed ) amendment . Somewhat tongue-in-cheek edit : I could not find a DOI ( Digital Object Identifier ) for the constitution of Montenegro ( nor for the US constitution , for that matter ) . If you find one , you might want to include it in your citation ( in the form of a hyperlink ) . If it does not exist , you may petition the Montenegrin government to create one .
From a practical point of view , whenever you send your paper for a peer review , they check if you have all citations both in your text and in sources . It means that " yes " they must be cited . Saying so , there is normally clear advise from a journal how to cite and produce bibliography . You should do what it says . At last you can always solve the problem by adding one sentence in your text : " Additional information about ... can be found in [ your references ] . " With this sentence everyone should be happy .
You have two different questions here . Should I decide the " suitable journal " for submission based on the papers in references ? " Yes you should " seems overly strong , but " yes , this is a decent strategy " as a starting point to figuring out where you might want to send the paper . You should look at other factors like how well that journal is rated/cited and respected by people in your field ( as a starting point to understanding this , ask your advisor ) . Is it necessary to cite papers from the particular journal for which I am going to submit my paper ? Not strictly " necessary " but a very good idea . What 's important is that you show how your paper fits in to the work that already exists in the specific field you 're contributing to . Probably , some of that work is in the same venue , so you should cite that work and show how yours is related to it . Some reviewers may feel more at ease if they see citations to the same venue and are convinced you 've described how your paper is related to the cited works . You should at least be checking your target venue for papers related to yours , so that you are n't seen to be missing on-topic work in that field in that venue , which reviewers may be more likely to be aware of and thinking of as they read your work . Be aware that when you 're describing those prior papers in the field and the gap that leaves , which your paper fills , that you do so respectfully ; the authors of those papers ( even if the papers are not in the same venue ) may be your reviewers . You should also look at papers in that journal and see how they are structured ( in addition to looking at how they are formatted ) . Is there a particular set of section headings that most or all papers in that journal have ? Are they typically in the same order ? Is there a common series of points that are made , especially in introduction sections ? If so , give your paper the same sections and sequencing , so that you overcome the antibodies that might reject it thinking " this just does n't look/feel/read like something that gets published here . " For formatting , follow the journal 's style guide/templates .
There are different schools of thought about this ; how much information to include in a figure caption depends largely on personal taste . Proponents of minimalist figure captions put forth that It needs less space . It says in one brief sentence what the figure is about . Having a long block of text below a figure is ugly . In contrast , proponents of long figure captions state that People who ( if only at first reading ) only skim over the paper and just look at figures do not have to search in the text what each figure is about . The very points found within the figure are explained in depth in the caption . When looking at a figure in detail , readers do not have to switch forth and back between the descriptive text and the figure , as a concrete description is right below the figure . Personally , I consider the points in favour of an extensive figure caption more convincing , and I usually go for those as long as space restriction allow so . An additional benefit is that you can use the paper text for an abstract description of some aspect of your work , and then use the figure caption for an equally detailed , but more concrete description of the example shown in the figure . This way , you improve comprehensibility of your paper without making it seem redundant or repetitive - as a certain degree of overlap ( or even exact repetition ) between text body and figure captions is acceptable .
Typically , academic papers have traditionally provided the lists of works referenced , rather than bibliographies . Primarily , this is a matter of space , as well as recognizing work that has actually been used . Otherwise , it 's too easy to include a bunch of random entries that have nothing to do with the paper in question . ( It 's still possible to do so in a works cited list , but you at least have to make the effort to work it into the paper somehow . ) In general , you should only include both lists if the journal in question allows such behavior . If you are publishing the paper in a venue that does not have such requirements , then you are of course free to include both lists if you choose . ( Although I would not repeat the references list in the bibliography list , again to save space . )
Here is how I would think about it : You were at the government lab when you did the research , so its logo definitely needs to be there You are preparing the logo and presenting the poster while at the university , so it 's reasonable for its logo to be there as well . With such things , it 's usually better to err on the side of inclusiveness : people or organizations are much more likely to feel it 's problematic to not be included than to feel it 's problematic to be included , as long as there is some reasonable connection .
I 've never seen anything like this on a CV . If you have other publications , I certainly would n't include this . It would look like you are trying too hard to find something to put on your CV , which could do more harm than good . Let your publications stand for themselves . One thing you could do when describing the various jobs you 've had , is to include the statistical analysis work in the description of the activities you performed in that job . You could also mention it in the cover letter , if it is relevant for the job . Finally , do bring it up in the interview as an example of how you work in a collaboration .
Perhaps the best approach would be to ask leading questions that helps the lecturer head in the right direction . Or , offer an answer to a question that was n't going well . I 've taught classes ( especially ones that use complex libraries , such as parts of a game engine , that I was n't a seasoned expert with ) , and have had students who had more experience with a specific topic chime in to the discussion with details I did n't know . It was great . I 've also had students who were aggressive and conveyed arrogance and had them derail the class by setting up a me vs them dynamic . Not so great . The most important thing is classroom dynamics : let the lecturer retain control ( ie . facilitate the discussion ) but you actively participate . The lecturer should be there to create a learning environment , not bestow knowledge on the class . You can make it clear you know the topic , and let them have you participate as much as they are comfortable . Asking to " take over " would not go over well ; offering your knowledge on bits and pieces and nudging the lecturer in the right direction through questions would be better .
I would thank him in the acknowledgments . Although there is no set standard for what is required to be an author , it is generally accepted that they must make a research contribution . Proofreading definitely does n't meet that criterion ( or any of the other criteria that I have seen ) . I did this in one of my recent papers . I just said : We would also like to thank Bob Bob for his helpful feedback on a draft of the paper .
I do n't know why you think there are any options other than both . Of course you should n't just say " I 'm having difficulties , full stop " without talking about what you have tried . Of course you should n't just say " this is what I did " without also talking about where you 're stuck . You sound like you 're worried about making the best impression on this professor . The best impression you can make here is showing that you have the maturity to deal with doing research : to work hard on a problem , be aware of both what you 've accomplished and what you have n't , and be able to ask for help where you need it . There are bunch of things that could be happening : You went off in the wrong direction , or missed something , and the professor will be able to help get you back on the right track . The problem is actually harder than the professor thought , and explaining why you 're stuck will make that clear to them . The problem is harder than you thought , and the professor expected you to need some help . In all of those cases , the absolute best thing to do is honestly present the work you 've done . The less you worry about framing things to make you look good , the better you actually end up looking .
end question
start question
Is open-plan office for academia at all ?
Although a 50 person office is larger than I have seen , open plan and shared offices are not uncommon in academia especially for graduate students and post docs . For individuals with teaching and supervisory responsibilities , open plan offices become less practical due to the need for privacy . The advantage of shared offices is that they help to foster interactions . Of course you can just leave your office door open , but many departments you can walk down the hall and all the doors are shut and you rarely get to interact with colleagues . As for asking for a different office , it can not hurt to ask . In one group I used to work in there was a 15 + person office with two small 1 person offices for hot desking at . It might be possible to wall off an area for hot desking . The idea behind hot desking is that multiple people can share a one person office since you will not need a quite office all the time . With networked computers or laptops it does n't really matter what desk you are sitting at . This way you can setup small offices for dedicated tasks ( e.g. , reading , writing , and programming ) . Groups that spend a lot of time in a wet lab or a clinic often benefit from hot desking . If you do n't ask , then people will not know how to make the work environment better .
Here I briefly describe two ideas regarding to what a professor can do in this situation . Keep contact with former students : Frequently , professors establish relationship with students during classes or during an undergraduate or master 's thesis . Probably , maintaining these relationships after students graduate may give you some interesting points of view regarding jobs in the industry . You can just send an email to a former student in order to ask her about her job or you can invite former students to give a talk in one of your classes . Establish relationships with actors in the industry : If students are required to take an internship , you can contact institutions that receive students for internship and suggest those institutions candidates that you know . I suppose that if you are able to refer to them good students , you can continue the relationship with those institutions . Another alternative would be to engage in professional activities in the industry . However , this depends on whether you are interested in working as a consultant or something similar .
I like the headphones idea , and perhaps a baseball cap , worn rather low , would help in a similar way . Some more ideas : You could put an embroidered sign on your cubicle wall ( or a calligraphy version ) saying something like " If you ca n't say something nice , do n't say anything at all " or " If you ca n't say something nice , say it in French . " If those are too blatant , perhaps you could post the latter phrase in French . Or choose one of the many <URL> that represent the concept . I particularly liked " NO Trashing OR Bashing Zone . " When someone approaches you and starts yakking , there are two ways of stopping them : ( a ) Look interested , respond with a wide variety of facial expressions , but without saying anything . ( b ) Say , " I do n't want to lose my train of thought , and I 've got a deadline -- can you tell me the rest tomorrow ? " Start coughing , grab an empty water bottle from your desk drawer , point at your throat , and walk quickly to the bathroom . If the person is still in your visitor 's chair when you come back , point at your throat and communicate nonverbally that you ca n't talk -- until he goes away . For the really stubborn person who needs a more careful explanation -- just tell them the truth : " I 'm the sensitive type , and when I hear negative remarks , I soak them up like a sponge , and they affect me way too much . This is nothing against you -- but I have to protect myself . So when I hear you starting to tell me something that 's going to affect me this way , I 'm going to say , " I 'm sorry , Rafael , but I do n't want to listen to this . " ( And then if he tries again next week , say it . )
Because PubMed is about biomedical literature and life science journals . Things are blurry , however , because of two factors : Obviously , there is no strict definition of what is ( or is not ) biomedicine . PubMed does not select " article by article " , but has a list of indexed journals , from which all papers are indexed . Yet , a single journal 's scope can be very varied . Combine the two , and you get the idea that there is a lot of variability in whether an article on a given topic is published . For example , my own research field is materials chemistry , and about two-thirds of my papers appear to be indexed in PubMed : probably because those were published in generic chemistry journals , which also happen to publish some papers of relevant to life science .
I do n't recall ever having received such an e-mail as an editor , so it 's not standard ( let alone mandatory ) , but I would n't be unhappy to receive one . I doubt anyone would care enough to make it worth the effort , but it could be a nice gesture if you feel inclined .
When designing an assessment , it is helpful to look at something like <URL> . Since you mention B-school , I assume you are assessing a management or finance module . I always thought finance modules in particular should be open-book because of the extensive use of formulas and , as pointed out by F ' x and others , simply testing if the student can remember some information is not really the most interesting ( for teachers or students ) . Sticking with Bloom 's Taxonomy , remembering is the lowest form of assessment . If the students do not have to worry about getting the formulas right , then you can start something more complex . For example , have them make recommendations or create a plan for whatever the subject is . For example , if you are assessing leadership , give them a scenario with enough background knowledge and ask them to recommend ( with justification of course ) a particular leadership style for the situation . Remembering the standard leadership styles is not what is most important . What is important is that they can see a situation , assess the more important elements of that situation with respect to leadership , evaluate the pros and cons of each option , and decide which would be the best of all the choices to be used , which may include creating their own leadership style . Basically , for open book tests , move further up towards evaluation and creating and away from rote memorization .
Registering a copyright with the US Copyright Office is a legal formality that establishes a public record of your claim to the work . It is mainly useful if , in the future , you want to sue someone who infringes your copyright . Specifically , Before an infringement suit may be filed in court , registration is necessary for works of U.S. origin . If made before or within five years of publication , registration will establish prima facie evidence in court of the validity of the copyright and of the facts stated in the certificate . If registration is made within three months after publication of the work or prior to an infringement of the work , statutory damages and attorney 's fees will be available to the copyright owner in court actions . Otherwise , only an award of actual damages and profits is available to the copyright owner . These and some other similar benefits are described in this <URL> from the US Copyright Office . Based on your post , you seem to have some misconceptions about how copyright works . Note that : Even if you do not register the copyright , the work is still copyrighted . In the United States and many other countries , a creative work is protected by copyright automatically as soon as it is written down or otherwise placed in a fixed medium . Even if you do register the copyright , you can still make the work available under a permissive license , such as a Creative Commons license . See <URL> for more information . For example , with <URL> you can choose to allow most non-commercial uses of your work as long as it is attributed to you , but still prohibit others from <URL> . You mentioned that you want to " let people use my work and cite me appropriately . " Copyright does not prevent people from doing either of those things . Even if you reserve all rights under copyright , people are still free to use the ideas in your thesis . Copyright only protects your expression of your ideas , i.e. the words or images you used to express your ideas . So copyright prohibits people from copying large parts of your thesis verbatim into their own , or from posting copies of your thesis on another website ( unless you choose to allow those things by assigning a permissive license to the work ) , but not from building on your work ( and citing you ) . See <URL> for more information . You wrote " a thesis should not be copyrighted simply because I think of it as an extended paper . " The vast majority of papers are also copyrighted .
<URL> points to <URL> , which allows you to look up the policy of specific journals .
At least in the USA , the number is probably much smaller than 5 percent . The reason for this is that there are generally fixed lengths for education , and minimum enrollment ages at which the process can start ( at least for publicly educated students , who are still the majority ) . Finishing two or more years ahead of schedule means that you probably have had at least two events that belong to the following categories : Started education a year earlier than " normal " ( perhaps because of birthday-limited enrollments ) Skipped a grade during primary or secondary ( high-school ) education " Accelerated " college studies by reducing the expected enrollment time by either a semester or a full year ( through early accumulation of credits via work in high school , or taking college placement exams , credit overloading , and other methods ) The first is the most common , but still only applies to about one-third of the population . The others are much less frequent , with the second probably pertaining to only about 1 percent of students ( if that many ) . The third also probably is not that common , but I do n't have hard numbers ( but again , probably less than 5 percent of college students finish in three years or less ! ) . Now remember that you have to have at least two such events , and you can start to see why the odds are stacked against a 5 percent rate .
Try to find papers giving a state of the art review on your field . They 'll be easy to find , they generally have a lot of citations and written by the experts in the field . Some of those review papers ( ones I 've read at least ) provide suggestions to researchers as to what needs improvement in the field . Good luck .
The total amount of funding is difficult to guess . If you ca n't get detailed information , it 's better to just state the number of positions in the grant and the total duration . Even that could be left out . If you 're applying within Germany , everybody will know what a " typical " DFG grant includes . For applications somewhere else , I 'm not sure how relevant this information would be . The personnel related funding received from the DFG is standardized . See for example <URL> for rates in 2012 . The important question here would be wether it 's a full-time or part-time position . That is field-dependent . Overhead cost is standardized at 20 % of the total funding ( at least for recent grants , it has been less earlier ) . Travel costs and other is really dependent on the project .
I assume you are talking about a document that is part of your application to universities ( e.g. for a PhD ) , which would be called a research statement here in the UK . Then the answer is simple : you want to maximise your chances of each application . So invest the extra effort and make individual documents to maximise your chances . Different departments have different priorities , so you want to emphasise how your plans fit to the research agenda of each place you are applying to . While it may be convenient to send the same SOP to each place , you can show that you have researched the place you are applying to and at least modify the SOP to fit to the place you are applying to .
Neither a research plan nor a research proposal is a " super specific thing you need to know about " . A proposal , on any subject , generally includes things like objectives , background , potential challenges , and a vague schedule . A plan often includes all of the above , in greater detail , as well as necessary resources , a specific schedule with milestones , and perhaps additional project specific elements ( e.g. which programming languages you might use ) .
<URL> might help or <URL> Here is the crux of the information : The period of stay is quoted as 3 years/1 year with the following documents needed : This visa applied for Long-term stay for the following occupations : Working visa : professor , artist , religious activities , journalist , investor/business manager , legal/accounting services , medical services , researcher , instructor , engineer , specialist in humanities/International Services The algorithm for obtaining the visa is given on <URL> .
I moved from a PhD in Astrophysics to an industry job some years ago , so I can share my experience , as well as the experience that a number of my fellow grad students had . This was in the United States , so things may be different in other countries . The basic idea is that as far as most industry is concerned , a PhD in astronomy/astrophysics is the same as physics , so any job looking for a physics background will do . Jobs looking for a mathematics/statistics background are probably close enough as well , and worth applying to . Your most marketable skills are your ability to code and do math/statistics while working with data . This is EXTREMELY valuable in industry . Your knowledge of astronomy and physics is likely not very valuable except in some very specific jobs . Some specific fields that aggressively hire people with PhDs in astronomy in large amounts : 1 ) Quantitative Finance - The financial world hires a lot of people with PhDs in math/physics/stats to be quants . There are a lot of pros/cons to this field , but it pays well at least . 2 ) Defense Contractors - This is very much a research type environment . However , this almost always requires that the applicant have US citizenship in the United States in order to obtain security clearance . 3 ) Software Engineering - A background in coding , data analysis , and mathematics is very desirable . You will likely want to brush up on your programming since scientific programming is not usually software engineering , as well as your statistics . You can try for more specialized fields like medical imaging , but it is often difficult to compete with the physicists with specialized backgrounds in that specific niche in my experience .
In general , yes . Personally I 've been pretty open to answering questions about my field of expertise from " random " students during my office hours . But : Ask first : " I was working on X and am wondering about Y. Do you think you would have time to answer a few questions ? " Be prepared to hear " No , I 'm sorry , I do n't . " Ask the right person . Do n't assume that a CS professor who teaches machine learning will know anything about Apache logs . Come prepared with a specific question - do n't expect me to explain an entire topic to you from beginning to end , or spend an hour walking you through a tutorial on some programming concept you want to learn . Do n't abuse office hours as a substitute for doing basic research on your own ( e.g. " I know I could easily find the answer to my question online , but it was quicker to come ask you during office hours . " ) Professors may want to give " priority " to students who are actually enrolled in their classes . If the office hours are busy , try not to monopolize the professor 's time - or come back at a less busy time , like the week after the midterm exam instead of the week before ;)
Applying for multiple programs is common and unlikely to reflect badly upon you . Applications committees for different programs are usually made up of different members and it is highly unlikely that they will even know that you applied to both programs . The only time it might be revealed is when it goes to the administrators who send out the letters , and frankly they could care less . Something to note , which affects both this issue and your overall considerations of a program , is that schools usually look for different things in a PhD program vs. an MA , and that affects how they conduct their admissions . At many school , MAs are not just less-capable versions of PhD students , they are completely different type of student . Terminal MA programs are usually unfunded , and include people who are less likely to conduct independent research . Some MA students will go on to a PhD program , but probably not at the institution where they get the MA . For this reason , MA programs at many schools are called ' cash cows ' and admissions to those programs are less of a priority for the full faculty , with a lot of the sorting done by administration , focused on funding potential , and stricter considerations about things like GREs , etc. . PhD programs are research training to become academics , or at least independent researchers , and most PhDs are fully funded . Since the university is investing in you , and the faculty will be stuck with you in person for 5-10 years , and reputationally forever , the faculty care a great deal about this . Considerations like the ability to pay , and even strict measures of capacity like test scores , take a secondary role to creativity in the field , goodness of fit , and so on . Simply put , in many schools you have to impress two different sets of people to get admitted , with overlapping but different priorities . There are idiosyncratic reasons why you may be admitted to one program and not the other , and sometimes it might even be that you get into a PhD and not an MA . ( On balance , however , admissions to an MA program is more likely than a PhD , simply due to the volume of admissions . )
The answer is it depends - both on the student and the culture of the department . There are of course some situations where working from home is impossible - graduate programs that are heavily lab based come to mind . Below is a summarization of my thoughts from a more data analysis driven field , having done both . Positives Lots of departments these days do n't have lots of graduate student space . While some labs might have dedicated bench space , and there may be an RA/TA office or two , there 's not " a place " where students can work anyway , which makes " is it bad to work from home " something of a moot point . Working from home benefits certain work styles . If you 're the kind of person who prefers to work in a spread out , sprawling fashion , with multiple monitors , tons of stacks of paper , and a whiteboard or two , that 's just not feasible in most grad student offices , even when they do exist . And when the only spaces that exist are transient ones , like shared desks or cubicles , library study areas etc. you also ca n't customize your work space at all - and expensive textbooks and laptops are theft bait . It facilitates more flexible schedules . Universities tend to be closed at 3:00 AM . I tend to do my best work at around that time . This seems to be relatively common in academia , and as academia seems to promote an " always working " lifestyle , having a single centralized space you have access to 24 hours a day is nice . Negatives You do lose out on departmental interactions somewhat . The concern about missing seminars is I think a bit of a non-issue . Those are easy to miss when you 're working on site , and can be attended with just a little bit of diligence on the part of someone working from home . What I 've found missing more is the transient , passing in the hallways interactions . I realized , for example , one day that I had gone several weeks without talking to anyone about my field . That 's not good . It also does some harm to cross-polination and ideas from unexpected places . It can get lonely . Seriously , this seems to be a major challenge . It 's possible , and the workload sometimes promotes , just disappearing into a cave . It 's possible to get distracted , as it always is working from home . " Real life " has infinitely many things to take care of , and its much easier to defend " work time " if you 're at an office . But then unless you have an office its easy to get distracted in a department where your friends and colleagues are around . Overall , I would n't say its bad . I know successful academics who work almost entirely in their office , and who work almost entirely from home . I 'd say the best way to promote on-site work , if a university is trying to accomplish that , is not to focus on the bad parts of working from home , but on addressing what makes it appealing . I finally moved entirely to a working from home setup because I got tired of " work " involving camping out in cramped spaces , without the materials I needed , fighting for power outlets . As for whether or not your physical presence is important to the department - it depends on the department . I 've known some who do n't care as long as you show up to what you need to , and others that absolutely want you there , and subtly penalize those who are n't around .
Thinking more on this , I have come to agree that patenting things - devices , or drugs - is necessary . However , I wonder if this question would be answered differently if the thing being patented is , instead , a model ? For example , would it have been appropriate for Krebs to patent the eponymously named Krebs cycle as a way to think about energy metabolism in a cell ? Or the cell cycle ? Or , could the inventor of the SIR model of infectious disease spread have ethically patented that method of tracking infectious diseases ?
First , it may depend on your field , but at least in mine ( physics and chemistry ) , it is rare for papers to generate comments or replies , and really extraordinary for a paper to be followed by multiple comments . ( The editor usually lets the original authors reply to the comment , however . ) Some publishers provide links to the comments and replies on the webpage for the original paper . Otherwise , you can locate those comments using the following criteria : they are published in the same journal , or in a preprint server ( like <URL> ) their title includes " comment on " or " reply to " ( or other such publisher-dependent prefix that you need to identify ) Finally , you should get the list of all newer papers citing the original paper , and check them out . If you 're investigating a paper in depth , you 'll do that anyway :)
end question
start question
Is it acceptable to submit more than one papers to a conference ?
Yes , it is acceptable , particularly since the author lists will all be different . Go for it ! One word of warning : The papers themselves must have clearly different content . If you submit five nearly identical papers , the editors are likely to accept at most the best one and reject the rest . That will annoy your other co-authors mightily .
The way I see it , there are a number of factors at play : Your goals : Do you want your paper to be published in a high-impact journal ? If so they will most likely be interested in the whole story rather than a small piece of it . Readability/General appeal : Can you make a coherent story with individual components ? Will they all be interesting for wider audience on their own ? In other words , if you opt for multiple papers out of one project ; can you make sure these will be able to stand on their own ? I personally think going for multiple papers is only valid when combining them into a single big paper would push aside some of your interesting results ( or methods ) to a metaphorical corner Limitations imposed by the target journal : Can you actually put together all that in a single manuscript ? In biomedical research you always get a limit on the number of words in the manuscript , and there is only so much you can put in supplementary . With regards to quality-vs-quantity , I heard that early on in your career quantity is more important while as you become more and more senior , quality becomes the main concern . I am often told that as a PhD student I can , and should try to get involved in as many papers as I can . Around the time I do post-doc , however , it 's time I pay a lot of attention to where I put my name and try to work on a good paper , preferably in a high-impact journal .
Simply continue reading papers and going to your reading groups . When you first start graduate works ( which includes reading papers ) , it feels overwhelming . When you first start , 2 hours is n't uncommon . A couple of things I learned about reading papers 1 ) Quickly read through each paper first ( to get an idea of what is presented ) , then read it more carefully . 2 ) Print it and write questions in the margins . 3 ) Give yourself a set amount of time to study each paper . Once that time is up finish noting down things you do not understand and move on . Bring your questions to the reading group . 4 ) By " upperclassman " I assume you mean students that have been studying for their PhD for a while . If possible , arrange to read the paper with one of these more knowledgeable students . They will be able to guide the inevitable self study you 'll need .
If the result reads like a newspaper , I would say , no , it 's not alright . If it reads like <URL> , then you are probably doing something right . Unless you are an exceptional writer , my advice is to follow the accepted conventions of your field , which probably includes block paragraphs . A longer paragraph allows one to build up an idea and explore it more thoroughly . The first sentence introduces the idea . Subsequent sentences explore it in more detail . There should be a logical connection between sentences , and sentences should ideally vary in length . Developing good style is matter of practice and reflection . And there is more to good style than the length of a paragraph .
From what I can guess about the context , I would avoid putting the code in your paper unless : the code is really short ( say no more than half a column ) ; the code is interesting in itself ; and you know that your average reader understands the language R. Otherwise , it would probably better to omit the code altogether and write , in a note , something like : To those interested , the authors can provide the R code employed to compute the probability density functions described in this work .
tl ; dr : seems like perfectly acceptable distribution . Students will try anything to get a better grade , do n't mind them too much . To begin with , with N = 43 , especially if this is your first time teaching the class , you do n't have a lot to go on . As you teach it a few more times , you 'll get a feel for your overall grade distribution . I personally average somewhere around 20-25 % A , 40-50 % B , 20-25 % C , and 5-15 % D/F/W across all my classes . But I 've had some individual sections that were virtually all As and Bs , and I 've had one where the D/F/W was a clear majority ( ! ) . No one in the administration complained or questioned my grading/instructional skills in that last one because they were due to extreme absences and not handing in heavily-weighted assignments , and also because I had taught it before with more " normal " ( = commonly occurring , not statistically normal ) distributions . As to new teachers having lots of As and Fs , if it fits an inverted bell curve , it 's a sign that your class is probably a bit too easy , the As are people that get it , and the F are those that do n't , but without more difficult questions , you have no way of discriminating any other levels . But frankly , your distribution seems fine and unremarkable to me . As the user autistic notes in the comments to your question , if you 're concerned about too many As/Fs and not enough B/C/Ds , you may need to have questions or assignments that include both more difficult ( to pull more Bs out of the As ) and easier ( to pull more C/Ds out of the Fs ) . Your ultimate recourse ( and resource ) is if the course is something that has been taught before at your university by someone who is still there , ask them to look over how you 're grading . If it seems fine to them , then you just got a class that happens to have that grade distribution . If not , then you may want to make some minor adjustments based on their recommendation . What I would n't do is judge your grading with their other instructors . Besides the fact that they could just be very lazy students in your class alone , each department within a university will have its own culture of expectations , workloads , and grade assigning . Those students may have As , but in a department that does n't demand much . You may also have students that are surprised at getting an A , if they come from one that is far more demanding .
Let me expand a bit on Thomas comment . By its very nature , peer review is a guaranteed item of discussion in all academic discussions . Every author has stories to tell about unfair reviews , reviewers that missed the entire point of the article , reviewers that rejected a paper only to publish something similar themselves , and so on . What is much rarer talked about is that the vast , vast majority of rejected papers are simply not good enough ! Indeed , this surely also includes a large percentage of those papers that the authors are sure were handled unfairly . An important point is the following : My only argument is that authors believe that their paper is a breakthrough paper and it has a very good contribution . Clearly , all ( ethical ) authors believe their paper has merit . Otherwise , one would likely not submit it . It has to be said that the author 's own opinion is not a good indicator of the actual qualities of a paper . Is it possible that reviewers ignore papers ? Maybe because the authors are not known or maybe they did not write the paper well ? Somewhere on this site , I have previously listed reasons why a paper can get rejected , but to be honest I think " the authors are not well-known enough " is very low on this list . The second reason ( " the paper is not well-written " ) is more common , but it should be noted that rejecting a badly-written paper is not unfair . It is the responsibility of the authors to make sure that their paper is graspable . However , again , I suspect the majority of papers are well-understood by the reviewers , and just rejected because the reviewers were of the opinion that the contribution was not substantial enough . So why do papers sometimes get very short , high-level reviews , even if the reviewers read and understood the papers ? One possible explanation is that many reviewers follow the golden rule " spend your time on manuscripts that deserve your attention " . In practice , a reviewer has finite time to invest into reviews . When receiving ( say ) 5 papers for review , two being borderline and three being clear-cut rejects , it is an understandable decision to spend more time scrutinising the papers that still have a chance , and only provide high-level feedback on the ones that the reviewer sees as clearly too weak . Now on to your questions : How can one be sure that their paper is well treated ? The philosophy I try to communicate to my students is to stop worrying about optimizing manuscripts for peer review and start doing the best research they can . I am convinced that the best way to ensure that your papers are treated well is to write good research papers . How to write papers that make the reviewers do not throw the paper away . Make sure that your papers ( 1 ) have a clear contribution , which is evident from the abstract and the introduction , ( 2 ) are written as clearly as you can , ( 3 ) are correct in terms of grammar and spelling ( try to have a native-speaker spell-check your manuscripts ) , and ( 4 ) have a compelling and relevant contribution . If Your paper is technically sound but boring as watching grass grow , you are not entitled to complaining that the reviewers did not read the manuscript carefully .
As a general rule : anything which is clearly academically related can go on your CV . As you say , there are certain things that are required or nearly required on your CV , but even these vary by discipline and sometimes people in the same discipline have divergent ideas . ( For instance , every once in a while I find a CV which does n't list the candidate 's undergraduate institution , or lists it without indicating the years that they spent there . I would have thought that was strictly required . I guess I was wrong . ) What to fight in adding " academically related " information to your CV is clear : if you put in too much routine stuff , you 'll get a bloated mess of a CV that few people will actually read . Drawbacks of a lengthy CV can be mitigated by very careful and clear organization . Nevertheless , you can compare CVs of two absolutely cognate people -- e.g. who attended undergrad and grad at exactly the same time and arrived at their current institution at the same time and with the same seniority -- and you 'll find significant variations , including up to at least 1/3 in the total length . It 's really your choice how much detail to put on your CV , and I would be skeptical of anyone who tells you too stridently what you must and must not do . Having said that : yes , very early career academics ( especially students ) really struggle to have a CV that does n't look unhelpfully skimpy . Conference work sounds like a great thing to put on a junior person 's CV -- and in fact , even on a senior person 's , although a more senior person might be more selective about the kind of conference work that goes on your CV . One tip : " conference volunteering " might be an undersell . Most conference organizing is unpaid , hence is volunteer work . " Conference assistant " sounds like your work was really on the level of secretarial work / technical support . If that is an accurate description of what you did , great . If you do such things more than once or twice , you should think about asking to be let in on some of the more content-related aspects of the work . For instance , if you had a say -- however small -- in choosing or recruiting the speakers or attendees , then I would go for something like " co-organizer " rather than " assistant " .
Yes , it is theoretically possible that a university accepts a thesis that has been used to acquire another degree ( I even know cases where this happened for two different fields ) . Usually , the only way to find out is to ask the responsible people at your home university and your exchange university . The latter matters because it might cause trouble if they have some regulations about you " reusing " your thesis . I can imagine that some universities have existing regulations for this matter , so you might check them first to avoid annoying people by asking something that you could have looked up easily . If this is not possible , I can think of some factors to consider as to which university 's degree you want to get : One university 's degree might have a generally higher prestige . Relatedly , a foreign degree might not be accepted or be less valued by potential future employers ( be they academic or not ) . This might even hold , if there are international regulations to make degrees comparable ( I know somebody who did a second thesis partly due to this ) . Finishing the degree at a foreign university while not completing the degree you originally set out to achieve might be regarded as unfinished studies by some bureaucrats , which is more likely to be negative than positve . Even worse , this may ring title-mill alerts to some . And yes , this would all be rather silly but unfortunately very real . So , if this is any realistic , make as much decisions about your future as possible and ask potential employers as to whether they have any preference regarding this .
Running a journal with Wiley as a publisher , Wiley 's instructions state JPEG , TIFF and EPS are acceptable formats . Since many authors supply figures in PDF and PNG I started to pass these on to the type-setter and found that no issues erupted . It is therefore clear that publishers may lag behind with their recommendations while type-setters are quicker to adapt to " new " formats . I imagine the lag is possibly a lack of interest to update what works , but can also be because they work with many type-setters and printers and wish to maintain a largest common set of files that they know all can accept rather than having to constantly adapt to individual services ' capabilities . I am fully aware that this thinking is a bit arcane and that any type-setter/printer that can not handle almost everything has very little potential for survival in today 's competitive world . Anyway . I would suggest asking the journal if it is possible to use PNG in your case , or do as many authors have done in " my " journal , send them in anyway . It may , for example , be possible to send in a JPG and a PNG copy of the graphics asking them to use the PNG if possible . As a side point : PNG is in my opinion the best pixel format because of its strong loss-less compression except for photographs , something it was never intended for anyway . Using PNG graphics will keep down the size of final PDFs of the article which is a good goal to have . So in my case , I encourage authors to provide PNG even though Wiley does not .
If there 's a specific reason , such as a deadline at another school , that it would be helpful to know your status , then I think its very reasonable to send a message to the graduate director at a program you 're considering . Asking just because you 're curious is generally discouraged , but if you have new information , then its reasonable to ask for an update .
I will limit my answer to American universities . Do you mean more courses per semester , or more distinct courses that are listed in the course catalog and offered with some regularity ? If you mean the former : in any given semester , most departments offer many more undergraduate courses than graduate courses . This must be the case for the reason you suggest : the number of students taking undergraduate courses in that department is usually far in excess of the number of students taking graduate courses in that department . But most departments offer largely the same undergraduate courses every year ( or sometimes , on a two-year cycle ) . Many undergraduate courses at a large university have multiple sections running concurrently . The most popular courses -- e.g. freshman level courses for non-majors -- are in some departments run in ten , twenty or more sections each semester . If you mean the latter : yes , many -- perhaps most ? -- departments with large graduate programs offer a larger number of distinct graduate courses over the years than undergraduate courses . Each course is populated by a smaller number of graduate students , but graduate students stick around for at least as long as undergraduates and , unlike undergraduate students -- recall that I am talking about American universities -- take the vast majority or the entirety of their courses in a single department . Sometimes graduate students repeat courses or stop taking courses at a certain point , but in many PhD programs -- including the one at my university -- graduate students are required to take a minimum ( positive ! ) number of courses every semester , some of which are unrepeatable . In fact , most departments devote much more thought to which graduate courses they are going to offer in the next year or two years , both in order to make sure to offer enough courses for their students to take , and conversely to ensure that enough of their current students will want to take any given proposed course in order for that course " to make " , i.e. , to meet minimum enrollment requirements and be run .
Your role as a teaching assistant is to further the educational goals of the course ( as determined by the instructor and/or the department ) . If encouraging your students to read these materials furthers the educational goals of the course , then you should do so . If not , then you should n't . Since the instructor and/or the department determines what the educational goals of the class are , you should check with them first , and use your extra material only with their approval . ( Besides for the issue of making sure your material is consistent with the goals of the course , it also makes sense for them to be aware of what is going on . )
I think you can certainly ask ( nicely ) for some more details about her ideas and the research she proposed as part of the grant . Especially so if this is going to be something you end up working on , or close to your own projects . You are , after all , possibly going to work for her ! I do n't think she will think anything else than you having interest in her research , which is quite positive . However , do n't ask for the grant proposal ( i.e. the written text ) itself , as it could be seen as assuming . Ask the questions you have , and let her decide if she wants to reply or simply give you the document to read .
Is it okay to use Mathematica to solve the integration and use the result in my research ? Of course it is . It might be useful , though , to make the Mathematica code employed for the calculations available to others , either through a public repository or by a note in the paper suggesting to contact the author ( s ) . This will allow reviewers or other readers to check your calculations , or , possibly , reuse or extend them . In a paper where I made extensive use of Mathematica , I wrote the following note at the end : To those interested , the authors can provide the Mathematica notebooks of the full calculations developed in this work .
No . Just report the GPA as it is listed on your report / certificate .
This answer is written with a background of a subfield of applied CS , where conferences are a primary venue of publications . tl ; dr : Yes , it is normal . At the same time , it is unusual ( though not " seen as weird " ) for someone to actually attend all conferences related to their field . Indeed , it can be a good idea to attend a conference simply out of interest for the topic . Both learning about new research and especially making connections with other researchers are worthwhile goals . However , there are a number of reasons why it might not be realistically feasible : Some employers would not want to regularly cover travel expenses to conferences unless the attendee is presenting something ( " has to go " ) there , especially if they take place far away . To clarify , presenting something on the conference counts as a compelling reason that requires attendance ( even if it means the person gets to attend 5 or more conferences in a single year ) , while simply attending out of mere interest does not . As suggested by <URL> , there are also arrangements where the total number of conferences that will be funded within a given timespan is restricted by an upper limit . In such cases , " saving " conference trips for the instances where you actually can present something may be the way to go . Even if the conference takes place very closely , registration fees are sometimes considerable ( 600 $ or more ) . The time required to travel or at least to attend the conference is missing elsewhere . It is " just " a few days , but it is a few days ever so often that the conference attendee will not be available for progressing with their research and fulfilling their possible other duties ( e.g. giving or supporting classes , supervising students , performing non-research tasks required by their funding source and/or department , etc. ) . This is especially difficult with regular ( e.g. teaching-related ) duties , as they can not just be postponed ; someone has to fill in for the traveling researcher . Moreover , the value of visiting these conferences ( especially compared to other strategies for using your time that restrict conference visits to when you also present something yourself ) should not be overestimated : While a conference can usually be picked for being " on-topic " for your research , most conference scopes are often still wide enough so the vast majority of works presented there are at best " nice to see , though essentially unrelated " to your work ( especially in early stages of your PhD , where you are probably somewhat focused on rather narrow topics , as opposed to more senior researchers , who are more likely to be interested in a whole bunch of topics covered by their own group ) . This is less of a concern for workshops , which are usually more focused on a specific topic or set of questions . On the other hand , workshops ( at least <URL> ) often have lesser requirements to the completeness of contributions , and also sometimes later deadlines than the main conference . As such , it can be easier to still produce something to present on a workshop as a " justification " to attend the workshop ( and also the conference it is embedded in ) . While some talks are certainly interesting to watch , not all of them are . A bit of personal preference towards receiving information in talks vs. in writing certainly plays into this . Still , I think it can generally be said that attending a conference is not an overly efficient means to quickly get updated on a wide spectrum of new ideas , given that every single such idea occupies a timeslot of some 20 to 25 minutes . Finding new contacts tends to be a bit of a " gamble " that is , among other factors , influenced by the nature of the conference . Especially smaller conferences can easily have something like a " core community " that considers the conference their " annual meeting of old friends " , where it is very difficult to get into . Again , this depends a lot on your personality , of course ; different people are very differently skilled at getting in touch with strangers .
Short answer : yes it is ok to accept the review . Long answer : Yes , it is ( still ) ok to accept the review . If you can only review paper written by authors you have never ever interacted with , at some point in your career , you 'll stop reviewing . Especially if you are working in a small field of research . For me , in your case , it is more than fine to accept the review . The question becomes more tricky if it is from someone you work ( ed ) with ... If you want to try out some really tricky reviewing scenario , try out this test : <URL>
It 's acceptable , but it probably wo n't help and could even easily hurt your application . It might be taken as a threat to the department , i.e. it 's like saying , " I could take this fabulous industry job I 've been offered if you do n't admit me ! " I might find this off-putting if I read it in an application . Departments are n't usually short of applicants , so a reviewer might just put your application aside thinking , " OK , you just go ahead and take that position . I have 50 more applications in this pile over here to go through . " Determination to do research is n't the most important factor in demonstrating your ability to complete a Master 's or PhD program . The internship by itself helps show your passion for research , and maybe helps show that you 're capable of it , but the idea that you 're highlighting your willingness to bail on the internship in order to pursue a higher degree might say to some committee members that you 're also willing to bail on the graduate degree program if something better comes along ( like a nice offer from Google or Microsoft in you 're in Computer Science ) . I think you 're better off using the current internship to show that you are able to make progress in research , and leave the idea that you 've been offered a job extending that research aside , lest you come off as pretentious or threatening . There are lots of suitable graduate school candidates with internships or prior research experience who might also be suitable to the same program . Use yours to show that there 's something different about you .
I would like to answer this question for the best interest of the student 's , not yours . You are supervising bachelor students . They may go to academia or industry after graduation . If the student will pursue academic career after he graduates , then you should tell him to use the tools that are widely used in academia because it 's for his best interest . I think force is a too strong word . To convince him is what you would do . However , if he will go to industry , why waste his time to learn something he probably will never use for the rest of his life ? If the student does n't know what he wants to do after he graduates , it 's time for him to think about it now . Is n't it ? Here is my personal experience while I was in industry . I had to produce some document which contained math equations . I wanted to use LaTex . MS word was the tool I was told to use because of maintainability issue ( no one else in my department knew how to use Latex ) . I had to follow the order . Matlab is another story . It 's also used in industry .
end question
start question
Where do research labs get their funding ?
Most labs get funding from granting agencies , governments , industry agreements , or private foundations . Some universities also provide funding in other forms . Now , what they can do with the money depends on the conditions of the grant . Some , are attached to a specific project . They may also include a breakdown of the expenses : this much to hire two PhD students , this block to hire a posdoc , publications , experiments , computers ... Some other grants are more open , and may give the PI more freedom to allocate the resources , or to work on sub-projects . Some areas of research have economical interest , and may lead to patents and industrial agreements , that could help the lab to be less dependent on grants . Lastly , some students may get their own funding , that may be attached or not to a specific project . Universities do support labs , mostly by paying salaries of the staff and infrastructures . Regarding the times , most labs apply to any grant in reach : you can never know if the grant you are hoping for will be renewed ; and there is never too much money .
Managing references can be a tedious task , especially at the proof-reading step of a paper and the usage of software that keeps track of your paper/references library ( e.g. EndNote or BiBDesk ) can be strongly recommended . With such software you can have all your references in your paper formated accordingly and automatically to the style that either you choose or the conference/journal wants . In MS Word there is an option where you can integrate EndNote , insert references and have an automated formating and arrangement/re-arrangement . Integration is done automatically for EndNote and MS Word , just when you install both of software . ACM style quide can be found <URL> .
The university I 'm at recently had a class with lecture in the morning , lab that afternoon , exam an hour after that , then a quiz the following morning in lecture , and finally a recitation that afternoon . Summer semesters tend to be like this as they are shorter in length than a fall or spring semester . No one is happy with it , but it 's what needs to happen to cover all the requisite material . What would typically happen during a regular semester is that labs ca n't be moved or adjusted , but usually the following lecture is either shorter of cancelled if it is the next day and the lecture the day of the exam is mostly review . But I must point out it is at the discretion of the professor .
You can get a list of researchers who have Google Scholar profiles and have identified themselves with the field , ranked in order of total citation count by searching for researchers in that field on Google Scholar , via <URL> . That 's not quite the same thing but will give you some of the answers you are looking for .
The research company where I work is organized much like a soft-money university , in that we are largely organized around PIs who fund themselves and the others working on their research by writing proposals to external funding agencies . One of the ways in which things are different , however , is that the PIs have a lot of help to draw on in writing proposals . It 's not " freelancers , " because we 're generally drawing on others at the company , but it 's still help from outside the research group and can be extremely valuable . In particular : Our library staff can prepare templates and proposal checklists to make it easy to comply with formatting requirements and to ensure that the proposal writers address all of the points needed for the proposal . We run proposals through two stages of review by people not involved in the proposal : the first is early at the " story-board " stage to make sure the narrative is coherent , the second is a week or two before submission to make sure the final proposal is really good . Some of the company publicity folks can also be drawn upon to make nice proposal art We used to have a professional copyeditor on staff , though I do n't believe that we do any more . These sorts of things can help a lot in producing a nice proposal , and I wish my university collaborators did this sort of thing more often themselves . When collaborating , we often offer to organize the review stages , for example , because they really help ; many university PIs , however , do " last minute " scheduling that makes it difficult to use these processes . There is nothing to prevent a university researcher from using these sorts of resources , whether internal or external -- at many universities , for example , there is a Writing Center that would likely be quite happy to help with copy-editing and the non-technical aspects of review . Likewise , I have known professors who would review one another 's proposals before they sent them out , in a less formal version of our review process . It just takes some organization and pre-planning to do these sorts of things ... and for many of us , that is lacking without an external framework that helps to chivvy us towards remembering .
Most decent PhD programs in biology will guarantee 5 years of funding ( tuition plus stipend on the order of 22K-30K / year ) , with the provision that you may have to work as a teaching assistant 20 hours/week for some or all of that time . The challenge will be getting into one of these programs with a 2.7 GPA . Many graduate schools require a minimum GPA , often around 3.0 , for admission . Departments can and do petition to admit students with lower GPAs , but it certainly makes things harder . Being an underrepresented minority can be helpful if there are other strong aspects to your application that compensate in part for the low GPA . As you 've indicated , doing research is one possibility . Publishing a result would be great ; simply being a lab for an extended period of time working alongside a PI is already a good thing . Why ? It shows that you know what research is about , and it enables you to get a letter of recommendation from someone who knows you well in a research capacity . What else can you do ? Letters of recommendation are very important ; do you know faculty from who you could get strong letters ? If not , start making those connections now . A good GRE score will go a long way toward compensating for poor grades . It 's worth preparing thoroughly for the GRE before you take it . Contacting possible advisors at the schools to which you are applying is extremely important . You can find lots of advice about how to go about doing that here on this site . Good luck . While you 're not in an optimal position , we 've taken students with GPAs in your range at our top-20 PhD program , so certainly there is hope .
I mean if I was a very smart researcher , and discovered something that no-one has known before , then first thing for me would be to create a company and sell it . Come on , do you even think it is so easy for someone to start a company and start making money ? The skills needed to make a product ( corporate world ) are different from those necessary to create an idea ( academia ) . A simple well-thought out , well-exposited algorithm may bring plaudits in academia , but in the industry you need to implement the algorithm as a small part of a large system , subject it to rigorous testing , find people to market the product and suitable customers to buy , etc. . And then there is the whole HR team which has to do its thing ... Patents are the way to go if you have to make money from a smart idea in the academia . ( EDIT : Generally , both the University and the inventor share equitably the royalties and other income arising out of inventions <URL> . ) Professors do engage themselves in collaborative work with the industry ; at times , they are funded by the university for setting up small companies ( see <URL> . ) . The lifestyles of people in the academia and the industry are vastly different ; for one , professors have much more freedom with respect to timings than in the industry and afford greater time for their family - not a bad thing in exchange for money , after all . Successful researchers in academia are unlikely to quibble about low income compared to people in the industry . Happiness versus money is a concave function - beyond a point , more money is unlikely to make one happier .
A time-honored method is to identify professors around the world who are experts in the desired area , contact them , and ask if they have grad students who will be finishing soon and might be interested and qualified .
For cases of the type you mention I would probably recommend not naming the brands . The reason for this is that the manufacturer is unlikely to be happy if you say that their equipment is not very good ( and they ca n't all be good or there is nothing to write about ) . This is particularly important if they have given you samples/equipment to use for research . The lab I 'm at has done several comparisons of various software and microscopes for surface metrology and in all cases the equipment/software is just referred to as A , B , C etc. . While from my point of view the reasons for doing this are purely maintaining good relations I expect there is a legal aspect too . I know we have received long loans/discounts on some instruments which presumably involves a contract saying we ca n't publish anything negative about the instrument . If a company has provided some equipment used in this sort of thing you may wish to put them in the acknowledgements . Although be aware this may de-anomimise you data . If very few people make an instrument of a certain type saying thanks to company X makes it obvious what it is . On the other hand knowledgeable readers could probably make an educated guess anyway .
Yes . It will be called a " Policy and Procedures Handbook " or something like that at most universities in the US . The reason to have such a handbook is to ensure that employees follow proper protocols about a range of different issues . This protects both the employees and the universities legally .
Measure theory is essential for higher level probability . However , I believe most graduate schools will have a graduate course on measure theory . Thus it is not absolutely necessary to have learnt measure theory before entering graduate school .
Industrial jobs are announced on different basis than academic ones . Typically , there is no a position to be filled . Rather ( larger companies ) are hiring on semi-continuous basis , and assign people to groups internally . Sometimes there are more research-oriented openings , for example <URL> . Just bear in mind it is mostly very applied science , and in fields like Machine Learning , Statistics , maybe some Graph Theory or Cryptography . So look at big companies ( smaller companies may not have such specialized positions or money to invest in long-term development ) in technology ( Google , Microsoft , Facebook , ... ) and their openings . When it comes to direct positions , usually you can choose only after interviews ( you rarely see research positions being on the front page ) . If it is nice research , or building webpages in a disguise , the only way is to ask people working at the company . Or look at CVs of your colleagues in your field who did internships in these companies ( especially ones that you know are pure mathematicians or computer scientists ) .
Speaking from epidemiology as a field , with some dabbling in clinical and translational research : Commercially funded research should absolutely show up on your CV ( it does on mine ) , and it probably wo n't hurt you , especially in the early stages of your career . There is however definitely more prestige behind having NIH/NSF etc. funding , or foundation funding - several departments I 've talked to have all said they prefer to see that . NIH funding especially is something of the " brass ring " . Commercial funding is n't bad per se , but a notably dependence on it might have people wondering what is it about your work that is n't passing muster in the traditionally peer-reviewed federal funding system . There 's also some uncomfortableness around conflict of interest - industry-funded science does n't have the best track record in terms of creating unbiased medical research , but they 're also the only people who fund some research , so it will depend very heavily on what specific area you 're in . I 've worked in some areas where it gives people an uncomfortableness , and in others where nearly everyone has industry funding of some sort .
The National Science Foundation in the US has clearly articulated <URL> for what constitutes a conflict of interest for reviewers of grant proposals . These are probably safe -- and certainly defensible -- guidelines for you to follow . Specifically ( and for the reason you mention ) , research collaborations are considered to be a conflict only if they occurred within the last 4 years ( there are other rules as well , please see the document ) .
Any of the scenarios you describe can happen , in practice . ( I am in the United States ; this may differ in other countries . ) It depends on the student 's interests and abilities , the advisor 's interests and advising style , how broad advisor 's interests are , whether the advisor has funding for a particular project and needs a student to work on that problem , and many other factors . All three have happened within my own research group . ( Another possibility that happened in my research group that you have n't mentioned : student initiates a collaboration with another researcher , who proposes a topic , and involves the advisor in the project as well . ) Actually , the scenarios you describe are not discrete scenarios , but a spectrum from " most student-driven " to " most advisor-driven . " Some points on the spectrum include : Student enters grad school with a topic in mind that 's judged acceptable by advisor , and proceeds with that topic . Student enters grad school with a topic in mind , that evolves and changes following advice from advisor . Student enters grad school with a general idea and , together with guidance from advisor and extensive reading of literature , shapes it into a topic . Student enters grad school without idea , advisor suggests general direction , and upon extensive reading and with guidance from advisor , student shapes it into a topic . Advisor hands student idea , and student proceeds to execute idea . Of course , this is a PhD , so as student works on the topic , the student 's mastery of the specific research will most probably come to exceed the advisor 's , even though advisor originally proposed the idea . Other scenarios include : student enters grad school with idea in mind and then changes directions completely in middle , student enters grad school with idea and changes advisors in middle but keeps idea , and many more . .
I 'm answering within the context of UK Research Council funding : Some Research Council funding is allocated on the basis of specific calls for proposals ( aka managed mode ) : so for example there may be a call to set up a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand , and universities ( or consortia of universities ) will shape proposals to deliver a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand . As part of the call , criteria will be defined about the sort of things such a Centre should deliver , that will be more specific than the usual - impact , engagement , publications - though they will not go as far as specifying particular research questions . Bid applications will be assessed against the usual generic quality and value-for-money criteria , but also against how well they meet the specific proposal criteria . However , other Research Council funding is allocated in responsive mode : these proposals are driven wholly by what the applying Principal Investigator wants to research , and as long as it is within the remit of the Research Council , it will be considered , and assessed on its own merits . That is , the assessment will be against general criteria , and whether it is at all on-topic or not for that Research Council ; but assessment will not be against how well it meets a pre-defined specification for a narrow research area , because for responsive-mode , that pre-defined specification does not exist . Here 's <URL> : Grants are awarded in response to unsolicited research proposals in any area relevant to BBSRC 's mission . As a general principle , BBSRC allocates as much research grant funding as possible in responsive mode . You can apply for a variety of investigator-led research activities through responsive mode . ... Applications are assessed by the appropriate BBSRC Research Committee using the standard BBSRC competitiveness appraisal factors . Responsive mode funding is only available to Higher Education Institutes and Research Institutes , whereas the funding in calls for proposals ( managed mode ) is available not only to those , but in addition it is also available to other <URL>
I find that grad students always wait too long to ask for help , either out of fear of looking " stupid " , or out of inexperience , or out of a misplaced sense of stubbornness . If you 've spent a few weeks on something and you 're thoroughly stuck , then you should absolutely ask someone ( advisor , other students , anyone with knowledge ) . You 'd be surprised at how often you were merely barking up the wrong tree , or just did n't know a very important fact or reference , or just had to reformulate the question differently . All of this takes experience , and that 's what an advisor is supposed to provide .
You can download the latex sources of the vast majority of ( actually almost all ) math preprints posted to arXiv . Just go to the abstract page of your favorite math paper and click on " Other formats " under " Download . " There you can find the link to the source file in latex as long as the author ( s ) uploaded it and complied by arXiv 's latex engine ( which pretty much everyone does ) . I think reading the actual sources of nicely typeset papers you like is a very effective way to learn how to latex . For example , here 's the abstract page of my latest preprint : <URL> and its source is here : <URL> To get the latex file I submitted , click " Download source " near the bottom right . The file is in compressed format . But as the arXiv page says , your browser may uncompress the file . My Google Chrome for Mac does this , so what I actually get by clicking the download link is a latex file , which is named " 1409.2559 v4 " with no extension . If your browser behaves the same way , you can simply rename the file to attach " . tex " at the end if the extension is important .
There is a variety of reasons , as someone who has worked on such projects , here are a few that come to mind : Access to research facilities . It 's often far more rational to fund a study in a university than to invest in building your own wet lab/cleanroom/animal testing lab , etc. . In some fields and countries , there are also regulations that limits certain area of research to university institutions ( example : research on human tissues ) . Highly educated , relatively cheap human resources In the subsets of projects where academic researchers actually do the work from the project description , it is generally cheaper and bears fewer risks than hiring people directly . Great way of recruiting scientists by establishing a close collaboration , the company has the opportunity to meet and see potential hires in action . In some fields , it can be a form of advertisement . In particular for companies that have scientists or research labs as customers . Example : lab equipment manufacturer , metrology tools , lasers , etc. . Do they get actual patents out of it ? Yes . It 's frequent for industry-funded projects to result in patents . The patents are usually owned jointly by the company and the academic institution . Sometimes the technology is already patented and the study is only about testing an application . Publishing a technology in the scientific literature can also be a way to prevent other companies from claiming ownership , since you ca n't patent something that is already published . Note that industry implication in academic research might diminish , as it becomes evident that they are n't always getting good research for their money . See : <URL>
" Tours " are different from " open houses " . On " tours " there is zero chance you 'll meet or hear from any faculty . At an " open house " , there is 50 % chance you 'll hear from one or more faculty , and 25 % you can actually talk to faculty during the reception . It would be very rare ( and delightful ) that a graduate applicant " open house " would have most or all of the faculty . Regarding " open houses " , there are three possible methods to find out about them . First is to look at the Department 's web site , and check under " Events " and/or " News " . ( Sadly ) They might only give 2 weeks notice for " open houses " . Second , the department might have a mailing list where you can add your email address to receive regular ( daily or weekly ) emails on upcoming events . Third , the open house may be not associated with the department but instead it might be hosted by the School , College , or equivalent . You may need to add your name/email to a mailing list for these events . Remember : Departments are notoriously irregular in their " customer service " in this regard . Almost no academic departments have incentives to perform their operational processes effectively .
end question
start question
Are postdoctoral scholars considered students or researchers in other countries ?
In general , if you are not enrolled in any course and also are not enrolled in a program in which you may eventually earn a degree , you are not a " student . "
The United Nations University does not really work as a normal university , but rather as a research center . The difference is that they recruit students from developing countries as for a period that can go from several months to a year , in order to make them work on concrete research projects , so that they can gain experience ( which can help them to apply for a Master of PhD program somewhere else ) . For instance , this a <URL> for students at the UNU-IIST ( International Institute for Software Technology ) . Note that the UNU-IIST also plan to offer a joint <URL> with the University of Pisa . Note also that it seems that each institute of the UNU is to some extent independent , so maybe other institutes provide more academic programs . So , to answer your questions , technically speaking there are students at the UNU ( when I was working at the UNU-IIST , there were something between 10 and 20 students ) , but they are not " enrolled " by the UNU , it 's more like some kind of internship .
Is re-rewriting the core function of a world class - well known open source project ( where performance is a crucial ) and optimizing it to be 2-3 times faster , considered research ? It might be , but only under certain restrictions : You need to be sure no-one has written about the improvement before . And I am not talking about the particular piece of code in the particular project you are looking at here , but about the conceptual idea of how to improve the code . If you want to present your work as a scientific contribution , it needs to be conceptually novel in a way that no-one has described the methods you use in an abstract way before . You need to present your improvement on an abstract , generalized level . Modifying a particular project is nice , but it is not research . Showing a novel method how to modify any number of projects that feature a particular problem can be . Your change should not be entirely obvious . While research contributions do not necessarily need to be totally unexpected or groundbreakingly obscure ideas , if many developers could make the same modifications to the project simply by applying their professional knowledge , your contribution is probably not considered valuable enough , even if no-one else has described the actual procedure before . To answer concretely to your points : The idea is to parallelize it as much as possible , This might be interesting for a paper if it involves any methods for parallelization that were previously unknown , and that can be applied to other applications , as well . modify ( a bit ) well known data structures to be faster for the specific case , A " specific case " is usually not interesting for research results ; it only becomes interesting if you can show the " specific case " is generalizeable in some way . use a more suited language If you design a new language that is specifically suited for the type of applications in question , that could be publishable as research , at least if that language has conceptual advantages over existing domain-specific or general purpose languages for any class of applications . The mere translation into an existing language is most probably not publishable as research . and ( a bit ) more suited algorithms than the open source project used . If those algorithms are already known , it is probably somewhat obvious that they could be used on that particular proejct . As such , this is not a research contribution . I am applying what others made . Yes , fine . I do n't create an entirely new algorithm or data structure . Well , do you create anything conceptually new at all ? But on the other hand , I guess there are 1,000 s of papers published out there and many of them add little value , while my work will help improve the open source project . " little value " is relative . In research publications , value does not mean a solution can readily be used . Rather than that , value is usually seen as the product of the degree by which a problem is solved/situation is improved if the presented knowledge is applied the amount of cases in which that problem occurred/to which the solution is applicable Due to the second item , whether or not you already apply your method to one particular project is hardly relevant . As soon as it is known how to solve the issue , the research is done . Implementing the solution in a project may be helpful to the users of the project , but it does not advance the knowledge of humanity and as such , does not warrant a research publication in and of itself . To summarize : A research publication is not about what has been done , but about what has been learned .
I think the question here hinges upon how specific the book title is . If you could not repeat book titles , there would be hundreds if not thousands of calculus and organic chemistry courses in violation , for instance . However , if the title of the book in question is Sprockets and Doohickeys : A History of Widgets in 20th Century Television , you might want to find an alternate title do the course . Technically it 's not a copyright violation , but it does betray a lack of independent thought on the part of the instructor in a specialized course .
As an applied mathematician , I like to go for the format [ Author1 , Author2 JST ' 99 ] , where " JST " is an abbreviation for the journal . I truncate longer author lists with et al , and add initials in some cases to reduce ambiguity [ Li RC , Guo CH , LAA ' 05 ] . With the help of a macro , I put the citations in square brackets ( following the LaTeX usage ) , in a different color ( dark grey ) and font ( / ) . Of course every solution to this problem is a compromise between brevity , readability and googleability , but it seems to me that this one works well in my field .
The answer to your ( real ) question is : Apply anyway . A department 's hiring strategy is many times not fully expressed by an ad , never mind the fact that it 's something in constant motion .
Please feel free to edit the answer to improve it . Generally , PhD programs in the US have many more applicants than they can accept . The number of positions is limited by finances ( a department can only afford a limited number of RAs and TAs ) , space and resources ( students often need offices and access to equipment ) , and the ability to supervise the students ( there is a limit to the number of PhD students a faculty member can effectively supervise ) . The admissions committee must decide which of the qualified applicants are most likely to be successful researchers while taking departmental " politics " into consideration . These politics include things like the start up package for Professor X included a funded PhD student and a particular resource is already at capacity . The admissions committee bases its decision on a number of pieces of information including GPA , GRE scores , statement of purpose , references and interviews and for international students TOEFL scores . There is no formula ( e.g. , 6 * GPA +1 * GRE +2 * References + Publications ) by which applicants are ranked , but some universities and/or departments set minimum requirements ( e.g. , GPA over 3.0 or a TOEFL over 85 ) . The admissions committee looks at the entire application to make an informed judgement . This means that being strong in one area can , and does , offset being weak in another area . GPA and major/background When admissions committees consider the GPA they are considering a number of factors including the grades , the strength of the school and major , the types of classes , and trends . An applicant who did poorly in 1st year general electives will be looked at very differently from a student who did poorly in advanced specialized classes . The major is not nearly as important as the relevant classes . For example , an engineering department might look more favourably on a math major who took , and did well on , engineering and applied math electives than an engineering major who took humanities electives . As with everything in the admissions process , the admissions committee is trying to judge the potential for research success . Compensating for a low GPA and major/background mismatch A low GPA can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GPA . Similarly , the SOP and letters of reference can be used to address how your major and background prepare you for research in the field that you are applying to . Strong GRE scores can also help offset a low GPA , and a strong GRE subject test can compensate for mismatches between majors . The best way to offset a low GPA , or a mismatch in area of specialization , is to consider enrolling in a terminal Master 's degree and getting a good GPA in difficult classes . I would like to add that an excellent way of improving a low GPA is by taking a senior thesis course , which is almost always available . Not only is this a proven way of building close ties with one or more faculty members ( who will supervise you in your thesis ) and getting those strong , personalized recommendations , but it could lead to a publication , or at the very least , a technical report published by the department . My senior thesis experience was life-changing : I ended up doing a Ph.D. . BECAUSE it made me realize that I was a better fit for doing research than I might have originally thought . In terms of grades , getting a good grade on the senior thesis course is usually not difficult ( especially since you 're not evaluated on an exam performance ) , assuming you put in the effort . GRE There are a number of limitations to the GRE in terms of predicting research success , but it is the only standardized metric admissions committees have access to . The weight given to the different sections of the GRE and the subject tests can vary substantially among departments . Compensating for low GRE scores A low GRE scores can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GRE scores . A Strong GPA can also help offset low GRE scores . The best way to offset a low GRE is to retake the GRE . The GRE is typically offered year-round for applicants . Upon receiving a lower-than-expected GRE score , you can , and should , immediately register for another GRE exam and begin preparing . Because of the short turn-around time , any preparation you did for the previous GRE should allow you to prepare much more quickly this time . You are technically permitted to take the GRE once every 3 weeks , or 5 times a year . However , repeat testings are detrimental to your schedule , morale , and finances , so it might be best to keep taking the test only until you receive a satisfactory score that you feel will rep
Where do you want to work ? Research universities want people who do research , publish , go to conferences , and can tolerably teach , in that order . Small liberal arts colleges want people who can teach and who do enough research to keep up with the field . These are rough generalizations . There 's no right answer here .
Academics are n't upset about not getting paid for refereeing/reviewing - they 're upset because journals charge too much . There 's really four points in the statement " academics do pretty much all the work for free and publishers get the money " Academics do most of the work Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work Publishers get the money Academics do n't get any money Just because people might object to some of the four points , that does n't mean they object to all of them . Academics do most of the work - Most academics would n't object to this state of the affairs . Of course academics do most of the work in publishing ( especially reviewing ) - they 're the ones who are qualified to do it . You ca n't have some bureaucrat take care of reviewing the work , you need someone who knows the field . Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work - Academics might grumble at this , but there 's a comparatively little that the publishers are qualified to do . Typesetting , printing , maintaining the journal website , administration in the reviewing process ... and that 's about it . All the actual content decisions have to be done by knowledgeable people ( academics ) . There 's certainly some journals which try to offload things like typesetting onto the authors , but in part that 's financially driven ... Publishers get the money - This is the main point of upset . Publishers charge what is viewed as an excessive amount . ... but it 's not that they 're charging money per se , it 's more that academics lose access to the content due to expense . Most academics were completely satisfied when they had access through ( paid ) library subscriptions . It 's only when budget cuts ( and publisher price increases ) caused libraries to cut subscriptions that academics got upset . But again , it 's less having to pay for things and more not being able to access everything they need . Academics do n't get any money - This is the point you 're addressing . However , I 'd say most academics do n't have a problem with it . Refereeing for a journal is considered by most to be community service - it 's something that needs to happen , and they 're the only ones qualified to do it . It 's quid-pro-quo : others review your articles , and you review other people 's . Attempting to make it a paid-for enterprise makes the person asking for the money seem greedy . So where does that leave you ? Academics ( mostly ) do n't have a problem doing most of the work - and doing it for free . The complaints are on the publisher 's side : they 're charging too much for what little they do . Demanding that publishers pay academics for reviewing is n't going to change that . If anything , it will make journal access more expensive , as they now need to pay for reviewers . So charging a fee when reviewing is n't going to fix the problem , and as Mark Meckes mentions in his answer , asking for one is only going to make you look naive and greedy to the ( academic ) editor who you 're in contact with . Note that there 's a very big difference between " Decline to review based on principles " and " Decline to review ... unless you pay me " .
At the University of Georgia <URL> ( which is not identical to a " department " , but is close enough so that the distinction has always eluded me ) in Mathematics Education and thus we have undergraduate mathematics education majors and also mathematics education graduate students ( both master 's and PhD ) . There are certainly close ties with both the mathematics department and other education disciplines -- e.g. the mathematics courses I teach have a substantial population of mathematics education majors -- but such undergraduate majors also take plenty of courses with the name " Math Education XYZW " . These courses are split into " content " and " pedagogy " courses . This distinction was very hard for me to wrap my mind around ( it literally took me a few years to do so , although obviously I was not working very consistently on it ! ) : see for instance <URL> , and please read carefully : the courses that they list as Content are actually in the math department ( one or two of them are taken mostly by math education majors , but many of the others are also required courses for undergraduate math majors ) . Rather the distinction between " content " and " pedagogy " -- which are the terms used by UGA students and faculty who talk to me about this -- is a distinction being made between two types of courses in the longish list of Professional Education courses . Thus e.g. compare EMAT 3800 . Course Title : Connections in Secondary Mathematics II Course Description : Exploration of secondary mathematics topics related to number and measurement with an explicit focus on reasoning that connects critical topics of secondary mathematics to one another and to problem situations . Sample topics include proportional reasoning , number theory , and probability . and EMAT 4800 Course Title : Teaching Secondary School Mathematics I Course Description : Introductory ideas about mathematics education , including current mathematics standards and policy documents , learning theories , and teaching strategies . Students will explore how secondary students think about and learn mathematics , examine how to select and modify tasks , use appropriate technology , and apply their learning in an accompanying field experience . This seems to give rather strong evidence that the answer to the OP 's first question is yes : Math Education is rapidly becoming distinct enough from Education in general to count as its own discipline . ( Obviously there remain many connections and commonalities between Math Education and other kinds of Education , just as virtually any academic field overlaps significantly with others . ) In particular , yes , math education students learn math-specific teaching methods . This is indirect , though strong , evidence that there are differences between the teaching methods of various subjects . But my other point is something that is not explicitly in the OP 's question : more than just teaching methods , techniques or ability , there is actually additional content that math teachers learn and that other teachers ( and students of mathematics who are not intending to teach ! ) do not . Let me also introduce you to my colleague <URL> . Beckmann ( who was trained as an arithmetic geometer and holds a faculty position in the UGA mathematics department ; her office is next door to mine ) is truly * one of the very top American experts in the field of mathematical education of teachers . ( Beckmann is also largely responsible for my awareness and understanding of the issues presented above . In fact I will contact her and ask her to look over this response to make sure I have gotten things right . ) One of her initiatives over the last few years has been to promote the idea of an explicitly identified mathematics teaching community . In this regard , please see <URL> and <URL> . Also , Beckmann writes on her webpage " Longer term , we plan for this project to include an electronic self-organizing journal . " tl ; dr : Yes , this is definitely a thing . It is a thing which has grown in recent years and is liable to continue to grow in the near future ... and everyone seems to agree that we want/need it to grow . * : So much so that I need not justify it here : just search the web for her and you 'll see it right away . Added : My colleague Sybilla Beckmann took time out of her busy workday [ on Saturday ! ] to quickly look over what I wrote above . She pronounced it " basically accurate " and went on to add the following : Teaching methods in math are definitely different from other disciplines . Work of <URL> and <URL> on mathematical knowledge for teaching has been transformative for the field in that regard . Some sources to refer people to : the CBMS Mathematical Education of Teachers II on the CBMS website . It refers to various other sources . Math education is a separate discipline with a large body of research amassed over the last 30 - 40 years . It connects to other education research but is its own separate field . At UGA , the math ed program is within
If it 's a blind process , you 're not meant to find out . As various people have pointed out in the comments already , discussing your review with them is therefore a big no . One of the main principles of reviewing by several people is that you get independent opinions , so that if a particular ( maybe well-known and well-respected ) person does n't like the research , they ca n't just make it disappear by convincing everybody else that it 's bad . For some conferences ( and maybe journals ? ) , you are able to discuss your review with the other reviewers after the initial submission . But in this case the facilities for doing this are provided by the submission system . There are two important differences to the situtation you 've described though . First , your initial review will not be influenced by the discussion and second , there is a record of the conversations and changes made .
( I answer it in a general way . If you want to ask it for your specific problem , try <URL> or <URL> . ) You may try searching for relevant papers , but then it is easy to miss even obvious references , e.g. due to different terminology , notation , approach or motivation . ( So even if you have a paper in your hand , it can take a lot of time to check if it is relevant at all ; searching in all papers may be like searching for a needle in a haystack . ) On the contrary , the best idea is to ask people who are working on similar problems . They may know the direct references , or people who know them , or at least give some insight into research lines in their fields ( or provide some general references which may be a good source for your own search ) . Source : it happened to me quite a few times that even a long searching for papers gave me little information , but asking people doing research in related fields ( and perhaps looking up references in papers they provided ) has proved to be successful .
A " fake " or " shady " journal is a low-quality journal that does little or no quality control . They are often called " predatory " because they prey on people who are under a lot of pressure to publish , charging high author fees for promises of quick publication . ( Since they do little , if any , peer review , the time from submission of a paper to publication is often very quick in these journals ) . They often engage in deceptive practices to make themselves appear legitimate , such as : Pretending to be affiliated with a reputable professional society Claiming an " impact factor " when they do not have one , or when they have an " impact factor " from some entity other than Thomson Reuters ISI Listing important academics on their editorial board , when these people never agreed to serve in this capacity . Publishing in one of these journals can be very damaging to your academic career . At best , it shows that you do n't know what journals are considered reputable in your field ; at worst , it makes you look like you are trying to " get " publications without doing the work required to publish in a reputable , high-quality journal . An academic librarian named Jeffrey Beall keeps a list of open-access <URL> and <URL> that he considers to be " predatory . " His lists are quite well-known - you may hear people refer to " Beall 's List " when talking about predatory journals . Between the growth of open-access and the Internet making it possible for literally anyone to start a " journal , " these " journals " have been popping up at an alarming rate . The NY Times even ran a <URL> about it recently .
I do not believe it had anything to do with the act of being recorded by itself . Most universities are beginning a process of recording lectures for later consumption by the students anyway . Instead in this case it is likely because the professor was unaware they were being recorded . They may do or say something that they regret or which gets them into trouble . If however they knew beforehand that they were being recorded it would be unlikely that they would do that since they know the repercussions would be more severe . I think it was an instinctive reaction to protect themselves from others using the recording against them .
Let 's find some official numbers and statistics . From <URL> : As a baseline , in 2012 , the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) National Research Service Award ( NRSA ) postdoctoral stipend for new postdocs was $ 39,264 , increasing to $ 54,180 for those with seven or more years of experience . Funding levels at universities are broadly similar . Post-doc salary guidelines depend on individual institutions , and benefits vary widely from place to place . In addition to salary , checking the benefits is important in the US , but less important in more civilized/socialistic ( strike out the inapplicable term ) countries . <URL> that gathers salary information from US job advertisements has the following for post-doctoral fellowships : Post-Doctoral Fellow average salary is $ 39,302 , median salary is $ 38,000 with a salary range from $ 20,779 to $ 961,896 . I think it 's safe to say that $ 961,896 is an outlier , but apart from that , the median matches the NRSA number . It also shows that there is a broad range of salaries , even by browsing the job listings on that site . For Europe , as I 've said the situation is heterogeneous . I know how to find numbers for UK , at least . If you look at <URL> for post-doctoral positions , the range appears to be # 28,000 -- # 37,000 ( apart from a few outliers ) . This would be roughly $ 44,000 -- $ 58,000 , but you have to adjust for taxes , health insurance , and then cost of living ( which can be quite high in UK ) . In France , <URL> is the largest scientific employer , and its <URL> is : The gross monthly salary of a CNRS postdoc is 2,500 $ As an anecdote , when I started as assistant professor , my salary was significantly lower than my post-doc salary . And even some of my post-docs in my group had higher pay than me ( as well as some industry-employed PhD students ) . But money 's not everything ...
I think it is essentially a scam . There are essentially 3 types of students ( 1 ) self funded , ( 2 ) departmentally funded , ( 3 ) externally funded . For departmentally funded students the tuition fees are essentially meaningless and just represent money being shifted around internally . Self funded students can be really hurt by large tuition fees , but departments can offset these fees by partial departmental funding ( again just internally transferring money around ) . The scam comes when students are funded externally and the external funder is required to pay the full fee ( and potentially even indirect costs on the tuition fees ) . Things get messy when the funding has a cap on tuition fees . For example the <URL> pays 60 % of the tuition up to $ 16,000 plus a $ 4,200 " institutional " allowance . Most departments I am aware of offer a tuition subsidy to individuals who get an NRSA . It is worth noting that high fees not only puts PIs at expensive universities at a disadvantage ( okay to be fair , it reduces their advantage ) in that their research is more expensive than someone at a cheaper university , but it also puts them in an ethical dilemma . When tuition fees make hiring a PhD student more expensive than a post doc , it is hard for a PI to justify hiring a PhD student .
I am a theoretical computer scientists in a top-10 US computer science department . To first order approximation , the only reason I apply for grants is to fund PhD students . My research does not require PhD students , but it 's part of my job as a university professor to advise them , I enjoy working with them , and I am considerably more productive when I work with them . Students in my department that are not funded by research grants or fellowships are funded instead by teaching assistantships . Being a TA requires a significant time investment , decreasing the time that these students can devote to research . Being a TA can be incredibly valuable experience , especially for prospective academics , but the first-order criterion for judging the success of PhDs in computer science is the quality of their research output . My department competes with peer departments -- and I compete with researchers in those departments -- to attract strong PhD students . If we/I want to attract strong students , we have to make credible promises of future funding to do research , because that 's what our peer departments do . Prospective PhD students understand the previous point . I work in a public university in a state with rather significant budget problems . TAs are paid from state money , which is limited . Thus , my department can only support a limited number of TAs . So if I want the department to admit more than a small number of students into my research area , I have to demonstrate that we can fund a majority of those students through grants . Students need funding to travel to conferences to present their research results , because they need to build a reputation in the research community . I could pay for my own travel out of pocket if I really had to , but most PhD students do n't have that luxury . There are a few second-order concerns as well . The day-to-day functioning of my department requires a steady stream of incoming research grants . Grant overhead pays for a lot of basic infrastructure in my department , including the salaries of all the staff our business office , half of the salaries of most other administrative staff , support for non-instructional non-research computing resources like our graduate admissions database . Grant overhead is also the source of startup packages for new faculty ( for which we are again competing with our peers ) . The only equipment I need is " pencil and paper " -- or more accurately , a laptop with a stable LaTeX distribution and a drawing program , and basic internet access . NSF no longer allows research funds to be used for general-purpose computing equipment , so I ca n't include that in my grant budgets anyway . But my university returns a small fraction of overhead directly to PIs , and I can use that to buy new laptops , to pay for additional travel ( by me , my students , or visitors ) , or even to help fund RAships . Tenure and promotion decisions , and to a smaller extent raises , do depend in part on professors ' proven ability to attract funding , especially in a department ( and college ) like mine where most faculty are extremely successful . Oh right , I almost forgot . I can pay myself an extra month or two of salary over the summer from my grants . The university pays me for only 9 months of each year ( although that pay is spread over 12 months ) , so each month of summer salary is actually more than 10 % of my annual pay .
Update on 2016-06-28 : The UK Government has <URL> . The short answer is " We do n't know yet , but for a PhD program likely not . " The terms of Brexit have not been negotiated . They will <URL> start to be negotiated if and after a vote to leave wins the referendum . ( So that 's the " we do n't know " . ) On the other hand , it will be at least two years after the vote before the actual British exit from the EU ( presumably to negotiate and to allow a graceful transition ) . If you are starting a 3-year PhD program this fall , there 's a good chance that the negotiations will not have concluded fast enough to directly affect your research . Source : <URL> writes If the UK left the EU would UK citizens need special permits to work in the EU ? Lots of people asked about this . A lot would depend on the kind of deal the UK agreed with the EU after exit . If it remained within the single market , it would almost certainly retain free movement rights allowing UK citizens to work in the EU and vice versa . If the government opted to impose work permit restrictions , as UKIP wants , then other countries could reciprocate , meaning Britons would have to apply for visas to work . What about EU nationals who want to work in the UK ? As explained in the answer above , it would depend on whether the UK government decided to introduce a work permit system of the kind that currently applies to non-EU citizens , limiting entry to skilled workers in professions where there are shortages . and How long will it take for Britain to leave the EU ? This was a question asked by many people . The minimum period after a vote to leave would be two years . During that time Britain would continue to abide by EU treaties and laws , but not take part in any decision-making , as it negotiated a withdrawal agreement and the terms of its relationship with the now 27 nation bloc . In practice it may take longer than two years , depending on how the negotiations go .
For life sciences : <URL> Long Term Fellowships and Cross Disciplinary Fellowships . CDF is aimed at people from other disciplines that want to enter biology . <URL> Long Term Fellowships . <URL> fellowships .
Within many sub-disciplines of Computer Science , conference proceedings , rather than journals , are the main publishing venues for new research . In contrast to journals , which have an impact factor , there is no unified metric to quantify the quality of a conference proceeding . Although there are indeed a number of categorizations , I have n't seen them actively being used to decide which venue to submit to . I found that within these sub-disciplines of Computer Science , academics are very aware of which conferences and journals are competitive and what the impact is of publishing a paper there . These are indeed mostly ACM/IEEE , thus , giving them a certain status by name . Nevertheless , just because the conference is supported by ACM or IEEE , does not imply that it is a high quality conference . However , when you apply for post-doc or faculty position , there might be people on the hiring committee that are not fully aware of this . To mitigate this issue and emphasize this difference to other fields , I have seen several resumes that explicitly explain how the publishing model in their respective subfield differs from the " classic " journal based system . You can achieve this with a simple note in your resume before listing your publications . An example : Note : Within the field of ( subdiscipline of computer science ) , selective peer-reviewed conference proceedings are the main dissemination of novel research contributions . Conferences such as ( conf x ) and ( conf y ) are highly competitive publication venues with 2 review rounds that include reviews from 3 external reviewers as well as at least 2 associate chairs . These conferences have an acceptance rate between 10 and 15 % and papers that are accepted and published are refereed as full length papers .
end question
start question
How to handle getting offers from two PhD supervisors who know each other ?
I recently posted a <URL> about being on the other side of this scenario - a professor in my university offered to take on a student who had already agreed to work with me ( and had been working with me for the previous year already ) . You 'll notice from reading that question and its responses that while I was a bit annoyed with the professor , I was n't upset with the student . In fact , I advised the student to choose the advisor he thought would be best for him , and gave him a good recommendation to the other professor in case that 's what he chose . That 's because the student is supposed to act in his/her own best interest ( while still being responsible and professional , of course ) . It 's not being selfish , it 's being smart . The first professor should n't get upset with you for pursuing an opportunity that is better for you - if he/she does , then you really do n't want to work with someone like that , anyways . So , go talk to the second professor : " I was thinking some more about your offer to advise me on my thesis and I have reconsidered my original decision . Is the offer still available ? " If he/she says yes , accept the offer and go talk to the first professor : " I really appreciate your offer to advise me on my thesis , but I 've decided to work with X instead . Thanks , again . "
I organized our department 's seminar series recently . This is what I did : know your audience Are you trying to build collaborations with your department ? Are you trying to expose your students to new ideas ? I 'm at an all undergrad institution . We wanted speakers who might be recruiting grad students . So I looked to bring speakers from institutions where we 've sent students in the past . I also wanted to expose the students to research areas not represented by our small faculty . You know what you want . Who do you want to hear from ? what 's the budget We had very little in the way of budget , so I focused on nearby institutions . Luckily there are a hand-full of institutions within a 3 hour drive . Plus , it 's way less trouble to get a speaker to come down for an afternoon . It 's a pain for everyone when dealing with plane tickets and a hotel rooms . I also looked around for some additional money . There are often specific instances where a funding agency like NASA or NSF will have money to send speakers around . You may not get to pick who you get . I was able to bring in someone from across the country who would have been way outside our usual budget . cold call People you already know are more likely to respond , but you wo n't make new connections if you do n't try . I dug around on department webpages , looking for anyone who seemed interesting and emailed them . I also asked if they could recommend one of their grad students or post docs who could come in their place if they could not . Many potential speakers keep a list of available talks on their personal webpage . Ask for a specific existing talk , or a small modification to one . That 's less work for them : more likely to come . fill in with personal connections After I got some spots on the agenda filled , I contacted the people I know . I can more easily convince them to come on some day that no one else wanted . If you still have holes , go back to your closest neighbors . There is some grad student who can come ( especially if you offer free lunch ) . invite a mix Hearing about the same thing week after week is boring . Try to invite a mix of topics and/or speakers . junior/senior faculty / private researcher / post doc / grad student men / women big research university / small college local / far flung etc. . . In the end you 're in charge , so do what you want . If your colleague does n't like the schedule , let them put it together next time . :)
Letters are interesting to write because they still have to be " complete " but the definition of " complete " is different ( and you often ca n't rely on throwing citations at the problem because there may be a limit there too ) . You need someone else to read it . Another PhD student in the group ? A postdoc ? They should read it as a reviewer rather than as a coauthor and point out any glaring omissions . You would of course return the favour at some point .
Your concern that this is " risky " is somewhat vague , but generally , I 'd say that working on something like this is extremely common . I 've never " cleanly " finished a project , where it is fully wrapped up , with nothing else to do right as my degree was awarded , I moved to a new position , etc. . I 'd say it 's extremely common , and if you think that extra work might result in a publication , fairly valuable . There is the possibility of things being too demanding , but generally people are pretty understanding of other obligations that come up , especially if you let them know in advance .
The matter of when to meet or talk to your POI is definitely subjective , but in my personal opinion there 's no harm in keeping in touch , if you expect to have a relationship with this professor in the future . I think that creating a dialogue with this faculty and discussing potential research projects as an incoming student rather than a prospective student places you in a very different position , and is better than blindly looking at her papers , etc. . If nothing else , she may be able to guide you to other faculty as she learns more about you and your interest , and does n't see a good fit . Of course , none of this is concrete , but from my experience it was useful to informally keep in touch with POIs across the board and see where I would head in the future , both academically and at jobs .
I am actually currently just preparing for such a collaboration/internship/exchange ( leaving after summer ) . From day 1 of my PhD ( both ) my supervisors said that we should definitely look for such an opportunity during my second year . Both of my supervisor think it is not a bad idea , moreover , they both think it is something very important given several restrictions : that you do it around the middle of your PhD . This is important because in the beginning , you 're still new to the topic and trying to get a grip on everything important . You can not " give " almost anything back to the lab you are visiting , so it is not a fair exchange . the project ( 3 months in my case ) , is something directly related to my PhD Not just " has similarities " , but maybe a sub-problem of the research direction I am currently on anyway due to my PhD . It is also important ( mostly , for the grants ) , that it is something that the target laboratory is better suited for/equipped/has more experts than your own institution . that it is around 3-4 months The point is , much shorter than that , and it becomes a purely social / networking visit where you can possibly present your research in person and have other people present theirs , but not much more . On the other hand , more than 4 months will indeed be too long , as I am not expected to spend much more than that on a single idea even when I am working in my lab . So , these were the restrictions . The benefits , however , are much more numerous : obviously , networking . Especially if you plan to stay in academia , developing your own network of contacts as soon as possible is very important . exchanging ideas . In addition to papers , presenting your own ( and your labs ) work in person is another way to disseminate ideas . Also , being exposed to different people , different approaches and different ideas might just jog some clogs that would otherwise take much longer to click in place . strengthening the collaboration ( between the participating laboratories ) : in a sense , you became an " ambassador " from your own institution to the host institution . A successful internship will be good for you , but it can also hold a lot of benefits for both institutions ( that includes your supervisors ) as if it goes well , they will be more likely to collaborate ( more ) in the future . international experience . Where I am ( France ) , people who plan to stay in academia and reach a permanent position are more than strongly encouraged to have an international experience . Basically , at least a few months internship abroad is a must for a permanent position , a year-long post-doc position or two abroad are much better . It is not a requirement , but always a person with international experience will get picked over the person with none . both of these boil down to : post-doc . If is not unheard of that such an internship might actually be " vetting " the place for a post-doc . And this goes both ways : your host institution/professor sees if he likes working with you , and you see if you like it there . specific benefit of the hosting lab . I have mentioned that there is many benefits of generally working in a different research environment and with different people for a while . But , specifically , there might be equipment , or test data , or an expert in the hosting lab that you just do not have in your institution . diversity experience . If you have decided to stay in academia only on the basis of your PhD environment ( as I have ) , you might not see the whole picture yet . Seeing different research labs , different environments , can only be a benefit . publication While 3 months is not always enough to make a publication , you do want to get the most of the internship . Thus , most people get a publication out of it because they put a little bit extra effort ( maybe not even consciously ) . And , your new publication will have a name of somebody other than your supervisor on it , which speaks to your ability to be able to work with different people successfully . Now , of course , funding might be one obstacle . But other than that , if adequate funding is found , I see no reason for supervisors to object to such an idea .
Arguably the most complete resource would be the UNESCO 's <URL> , a database of translation from 1979 onward . There you should be able to search more easily , selecting desired language and inputting a keyword from the title or an author . There is also a list of references hosted by <URL> , which offers a few hard-copy guides for consultation , however these are more restricted by field ( mostly having to do with works of literature ) .
A graduate school probably will not make any exceptions for psychological issues : by the time that you are at the level of graduate school , people are generally evaluating you as a " whole package . " If a person has cognitive or psychological issues ( and many successful people do ) , what will likely matter is whether those impair them to the degree that they will have trouble succeeding . For example , consider a person on the <URL> : this covers a huge range of different issues and many different levels of functionality and types of coping strategy . One person might have a strong focus and coping strategies that cause others to feel just that they are " socially awkward " and get strong recommendations regardless . Another with less adaptive coping strategies might instead find themselves perceived as argumentative and hard to work with and have a hard time getting good recommendations . In the end it boils down to this : a person has to have people willing to advocate for them . If they ca n't get advocates , then it does n't matter whether it 's because of bad grades , bad attitude , mental illness , or anything else ( unless you are dealing with a clear case of discrimination against a specially protected category , e.g. , in the U.S. , religion , race , or gender ) .
The purpose of IRB approval is for four things . The first is to make sure research is being done ethically and responsibly . Except when used in a circular definition , research does not need IRB approval to be conducted in an ethical manner . It definitely does not need multiple IRBs to approve it . The second is funders may not fund research that is not approved . They would only want approval from the institution where the funding is being given to . To publish research , it general needs IRB approval , but again , they do not care where it comes from . From both the publisher and funder point of view , IRB approval is their proof that the research was conducted in an ethical manner . The final reason is so you are not liable . IRB approval , at least at the universities I am familiar with , means that the university takes on the liability as long as the protocol is approved . As place that may get sued , more any place that you will want help from if you get sued , will likely need to approve the research . Many IRBs have a light touch review for studies that have been reviewed by another university 's IRB .
The goal is to score the papers on their own merits , not to rank them . There are some conferences where there are ranking systems , usually among the scored papers and done by the committee , but just like journal papers , it 's possible to evaluate a paper on its own merits . For example , if there was a paper that was technically the " Best of a bad lot " , but still contained massive numbers of errors , poor writing , unintelligible graphics , etc. , knowing the context is n't necessarily helpful , they 're all bad papers . Looking at their scoring metric , each one of these can be described in manner consistent with not knowing other papers : reject : This abstract is n't suitable for the venue , is just outright poor quality , etc. and is beyond salvaging . weak reject : This abstract is n't pathologically flawed , but would need a considerable amount of work to be appropriate for the venue . neutral : The " I suppose " category . Filler abstracts that could use a bit of polish , or ones that failed to rouse much of a strong feeling either way . weak accept : Promising submissions that are appropriate for the venue . While not inherently flawed , there 's probably improvements they could make to . accept : " I would like to see this accepted " It 's possible for you to get two outstanding papers and simply both think they should be accepted . Or two papers that should be rejected flat out . And things in between . Trying to rank every submission to a conference would be a massive effort , and is still somewhat arbitrary , as your ranking scheme is not inherently an objective one . Nor are you necessarily guaranteed to be qualified to rank each and every submission . You should take into account the nature of the conference itself - for example , there are some conferences where I am considerably more lenient than I am for others , the same way there are journals where I use somewhat stricter criteria . And yes , a strict reviewer could torpedo otherwise worthwhile papers , but that 's why many groups use more than one reviewer , and the probability of any one reviewer being a sufficiently strict reviewer as to meaningfully start harming the overall peer review process is pretty small .
You may get the best response by using informal channels . If you know the managing editor of the journal ( my field is small enough that I often do ) , you might send an informal email , or even just express your concern in person . As Ben Norris mentioned , the key is that you communicate in a calm , rational , and deliberative way .
Significance may be a very subjective judgement . Of course , for old , famous problems such as Fermat , any proof would count as significant , but the question becomes much more dodgy when one enters a side alley . As heuristic , ask yourself : is the result solving an old , unsolved problem ? Is it connecting two unconnected or loosely parts of the field ? Is it a beautiful , unexpected result ? Is it generalising existing concepts ?
There are multiple issues here . The first is a student persisting , pushing for higher grades . For this , you should see the link scaaahu left <URL> If you continue to entertain this student they will keep pushing . Why would they stop ? There is no cost and a chance for a gain . However , you need to be strong and clear . " You got this grade because of your performance . You want a better grade then give a better performance . " Second issue , which I think you mentioned ( but I might be mistaken here ) is students needing a higher grade than they deserve . I just dealt with this issue ( again ) this past month . The student ( and even an admin on behalf of the student ) were practically pleading with me saying " I really need a higher grade , I know the semester is over , and I know I did not do a good job , and I know I misbehaved in class , but could you pleeeaaaase give me a higher grade ? " When you encounter this second kind of issue remember that you are acting as a judge . Because of this , your decision is going to set precedent which will be held against you ( and perhaps others ) in the future . So , if you really want what is best for all students ( including the one asking ) then you must hold steady and show that students must do the work for the grade they want . Otherwise , they will think there is a way they can avoid the work and still get good grades and that is clearly not the signal we , as educators , should be sending . In short , tough love and make sure they respect the educational process ( do n't allow them to badger you ) .
I think now that i understand what the author of original post means to do , so please comment if i understood you correctly . Plan is to enter masters in math , try to get better GPA and then submit using only his new master diploma for PhD . If that is your intention , yes , that could work . As far as i know , masters program in USA lasts for one year . If you have time , will and funds to do it , sure , go ahead . You can get higher GPA and MSc in mathematics while learning something new in process . Other advice is to get your current GPA transcribed to european grade standard . Go to the websites of the universities where you intend to apply for PhD program and see if you meet minimum grade needed . Since there is n't universal grade minimum , you may find out that you qualify in one of them with your current GPA . Remember , GPA is not be all end all criteria . Personal experience , minimum grade average was 3.5 ( very good ) . When i applied they checked my grade average to see if i meet their minimum and they never looked at it again . It was mostly administrative criteria . Interviews had much more weight in their decision to admit me to PhD program . Hope it helps
This is a fairly simple assignment . To answer your questions : Obviously your name and class information should appear at the top of the assignment ( unless otherwise instructed by the professor ) . The " title and authors " referred to by the professor are in reference to the paper that you are discussing , not you ! You are told to write in complete paragraphs . That means no bullet lists , so write everything as complete , well-structured sentences . Spacing and font are up to you , but in general , I 'd use at least 1.5 times normal spacing and 11 pt or larger font ( unless you 're working with LaTeX , in which case the formatting is handled for you ) .
Unfortunately I do not have enough rep to write a comment on Moriarty 's answer , but I think that it is most likely because of absent-mindedness in the part of the student . I wanted to comment the following idea if you 're lending out something like pens : My mother used to work with students who would need to come in , go through a long document and sign it before leaving . She would go through an enormous number of pens , as the students often just popped them back into their pockets by accident . She came across the idea of flower pens ( gluing a big fake fabric flower to the end of the pen ) and implemented it on the pens in her office , and she said that suddenly her pens stopped disappearing - since they were now tricky for the students to mistake them for their own , or accidentally stuff them in their pockets . Depending on equipment you could try other things ( I imagine you could spray-paint some things in bright neon or shiny colours , attach big tags or tassles to the items ) to make them stand out a little more . ( A sample pen : <URL> )
You can submit both papers to one or two different conferences , as long as you have two new contributions in them . Side Note It is advised not to cut the " meaty " part of a very nice contribution , into two or more different papers/journals . This sort of " slicing " put your future academic life at risk , because there are some academics that write many poor papers , by just slicing a contribution into different papers ; and they are very well known for their " efforts " . So , do not put your academic career at jeopardy , and think this through ( i.e. , contribution ( s ) you want to discuss in each paper ) .
There is no really good reason for schools to ask what other schools a student is applying to . I personally make it a point as much as possible never to ask people who I 'm interviewing or whose applications I 'm reviewing what other programs they 're considering . I do ask , however , if they are actively considering other options , this is something that can affect our internal decision-making process , so I ask if students are entertaining offers , but not where . Schools are likely to be using this answer to gauge what schools you 're applying to , with a view towards planning whom to admit . But again , I do agree that this question is invasive , and is n't really necessary . In addition , schools should n't be checking up with other graduate schools about their admissions , so I would answer in whatever way you feel comfortable . Moreover , you can always claim that your answer was accurate at the time , but changed following the point at which you submitted the application .
There is nothing unethical about publishing something like what you suggest . Personally I would be happy and encourage a student of mine if that happened . So from a formal side you need not to worry . I can add that authorship , or contributorship , does not include adding names to a paper if they have not contributed anything ( or enough ; see posts on authorship on this , Academia.sx , site ) . I would , however , be open about it with your advisor . I assume you have a good working relationship with him/her ? The only thing that could complicate things would be if you are in a bad working relationship with your advisor or if your system is very hierarchical and not open to initiatives . Clearly only you can assess this . But , I do not want you to over-emphasize these " risks " . If you get stuff published on your own and in a field that is not directly within your topic , it will only be viewed as a positive in your resume when applying for , for example , post-doctoral positions . As for risking rejection , I suggest you have someone whose views you trust to read and comment on the paper . Having someone independent look at the work is always good to work out details that can otherwise distract reviewers . This is always a good idea so it is not unique to your case .
Often if not almost always , " International Editions " ( the monicker I know them under ) are copies of expensive text books printed in emerging market countries ( often India ) , whose legality I question ... at least they are not licensed by the publisher for all I know . Someone here might have more substantial comments on the legal aspect - in fact , <URL> in his answer to an earlier question . From the one I bought before understanding this , I would , in the future , stay away from them for their quality alone . I kept noticing that there were seeming errors where the text diverged in most cases from a supporting graphic ; and there were graphics on almost every page . I carefully made a list of errata for the first 100 pages , and submitted them to the author . He was kind enough to reply fast , expressing that he was puzzled : none seemed to be true . I eventually figured out that the graphics and text of my book were from different editions of the original book ... my version is essentially useless .
end question
start question
Why do some arXiv preprints have increased line spacing ?
I think the real underlying cause is just what Anonymous Mathematician said , that having a double-spaced version of a paper is more convenient for going through and making notes on a printed copy . But it 's not just a phenomenon of the dark ages ; many people still do this today during the revision process when a paper is being prepared for submission . In fact , at least in physics ( my field ) , the tradition of double-spacing is perpetuated by the fact that at least <URL> defaults to a mode which sets the line spacing to double . It is possible to change this to single line spacing by passing a class option for the appropriate journal ( , , , etc. ) , but many authors forget to do this - and somewhat understandably , I think , because their job is to do research , not to be proficient with LaTeX . I would imagine that a similar situation might arise with LaTeX classes used by other publishers and in other fields . It 's worth noting that arXiv <URL> not submitting in double-spaced mode . But probably very few submitters have the patience to read through the instructions in their entirety .
It depends largely on the country and institution . Some PhD programs in engineering require a Master 's with a dissertation . Other programs are content with a course-work-only Master 's . Your best bet is to find a person to work with at the department of the PhD program you want to enter ( which it sounds like you have already done ) and follow the advice of that person .
Having a paper that was not peer reviewed but is available from arXiv will help you just as much , and in exactly the same way , as having a paper that was not peer reviewed and is available from any other easily accessed online source . The main things that are important are that : You have written a paper ( according to some definition of " paper " ) . The paper can easily be accessed and looked at by anyone wishing to evaluate your strength as a grad school applicant . Note that the value of such a paper to your admission prospects can actually be negative if it is clearly of very poor quality , shows delusional tendencies ( e.g. , a paper with the title " A simple proof of the Riemann Hypothesis " ) , or comes across as a dishonest attempt to create a false impression that you have done something important when clearly you have n't . Setting aside such obvious exceptions , an arXiv paper will probably have a positive , but in most cases not very large , value for your applications .
A small sidenote to start things off : If I tell them " I read from Wikipedia that ... " I get dismissed immediately , yet in online forums we use it like a Bible . Well , one of the reasons for that is that " I read in Wikipedia " is almost synonymous with " I have exactly 5 minutes worth of knowledge on the topic " . The problem here really is n't the fact that you read Wikipedia , but that citing from it implies that you have read nothing else on the topic . If I am an expert in whatever field , I would probably not take a concern from somebody who implies that all his knowledge comes from a few-minute Internet recherch very seriously , either ( no matter what source ( s ) he actually found ) . Also , which online forums " use it like a Bible " ? Most that I hang around at are very critical of Wikipedia quotes , mostly for the reason I stated above - arguing based on a Wikipedia entry does not exactly establish creds as a person knowledgeable about the subject . Now , let 's discuss the real question here : What is the real reason Wikipedia is perceived negatively among many professors , even for informal use ( e.g. as an introduction to a subject ) ? ( note that the question is specifically about using Wikipedia as an introduction to a subject , not as a primary , citable source ) Honestly ? It is probably a combination of feeling threatened , reluctance to embrace change , and lack of knowledge how Wikipedia articles actually evolve over time . " Feeling threatened " in the sense that Wikipedia is kind of decentralising knowledge compilation , which is of course not necessarily something that makes academics ( the people that used to be more or less the definition of " compiled knowledge " in pre-internet times ) very comfortable . " Reluctance to embrace change " in the sense that Wikipedia is ( in comparison to text books or lectures ) a very new ( and radically different ) way to get an introduction to a topic , and most humans tend to be sceptical of this kind of disruptive technology . " Lack of knowledge " in the sense that many critical academics simply have not taken the time to study how ( especially popular ) Wikipedia articles actually evolve over time . I am convinced many would be positively surprised if they knew how well quality control in Wikipedia actually works in practice . I remember that in 2004 , c ' t ( a well-known German magazine widely read by IT professionals ) ran <URL> where they took random articles out of various encyclopaedias , anonymised them so that one could not tell the source anymore , and had domain experts compare them to anonymised Wikipedia articles for quality and technical errors . Wikipedia was consistently rated higher-quality than even well-respected standard encyclopaedias . That being said , I assume that the average quality of Wikipedia articles degrades a lot for entries on more esoteric topics , so I actually agree that for deeply scientific topics , one should be somewhat skeptical of Wikipedia , just as one would be about any other single source . Finally , I have to say that I know many professors that do n't have a problem with using Wikipedia as a starting point for your review of a subject . However , if you write , for instance , an seminar paper , you are expected to read the primary sources ( and I fully agree with this ) .
Well , if you agreed they would not need to fear that you demand them to remove your photo and name and that you could sue them . Also , you could write " on the editorial board of ... " in your CV and at some places in the world this would enable you to reduce teaching or get a raise . I think that 's basically it . If this would be true , there would be some people that accept such an invitation . Not sure if this is the case , but does not seem impossible .
There is a variety of reasons , as someone who has worked on such projects , here are a few that come to mind : Access to research facilities . It 's often far more rational to fund a study in a university than to invest in building your own wet lab/cleanroom/animal testing lab , etc. . In some fields and countries , there are also regulations that limits certain area of research to university institutions ( example : research on human tissues ) . Highly educated , relatively cheap human resources In the subsets of projects where academic researchers actually do the work from the project description , it is generally cheaper and bears fewer risks than hiring people directly . Great way of recruiting scientists by establishing a close collaboration , the company has the opportunity to meet and see potential hires in action . In some fields , it can be a form of advertisement . In particular for companies that have scientists or research labs as customers . Example : lab equipment manufacturer , metrology tools , lasers , etc. . Do they get actual patents out of it ? Yes . It 's frequent for industry-funded projects to result in patents . The patents are usually owned jointly by the company and the academic institution . Sometimes the technology is already patented and the study is only about testing an application . Publishing a technology in the scientific literature can also be a way to prevent other companies from claiming ownership , since you ca n't patent something that is already published . Note that industry implication in academic research might diminish , as it becomes evident that they are n't always getting good research for their money . See : <URL>
Yes , it is entirely appropriate , especially if you come to them in person and just knock on their office door when they 're around and ask if they can spare 5 minutes to answer a question or two . If you are nice , polite , curious and fun to talk to ( and you sound like all of those things to me ) they may easily end up talking to you for an hour . Busy or not , professors are people and love to procrastinate just like anyone else . :-) Email is a lot less likely to work , but again , I do n't see it as inappropriate , simply less effective . And do n't overthink it . Knocking on someone 's ( even a stranger 's ) office door is not the same as hugging them , and not every decision in life should be agonized over and analyzed in minute detail . Just try it , the worst that can happen is ... nothing .
I am not aware of any university having agreements with other universities about exchanging exam questions and i doubt that such agreements would exist in many places . I would wager a bet that the same is pretty much true on departmental level . On the level of individual teachers there might be many reasons why exam questions pop up in different places . One has been mentioned by Brian Borchers in a comment ( questions taken from textbooks ) . Secondly , many first - and second-year courses teach pretty standard material which often has not changed for quite a while ( e.g. basic linear algebra in many disciplines ) . For such courses ( and even some higher-level courses ) the set of questions that are useful as exam questions tends to be limited and so i would not find it surprising to find that most if not all questions have been asked somewhere and have been discussed on the web . Thirdly , it is not unheard of that teachers re-use exam questions from previous years . Fourth : sometimes teachers talk to each other and exchange experiences and material .
To expand on Dirk 's comment : The status you see means that the reviewers have submitted their reports to the online system , and the handling editor has received an email about this . Now she has to read the comments ( and likely look at your manuscript again to see if they comments are relevant ) , come to a decision , and write a corresponding letter to the author summarizing the comments and justifying the decision . This will in general not take more than an hour . But you should keep in mind that yours is not the only manuscript ( nor , in all likelihood , the only journal ) the editor has to deal with . In addition , this is both the end of semester and conference season in many parts of the world , so it is reasonable to assume that the editor is just very busy with more urgent deadlines , or is n't even in office . ( Remember , editors are unpaid , so this work is on top of the regular duties of teaching , advising and doing their own research . ) In some cases , the final decision even involves two editors ( associate/managing editor and editor-in-chief/communicating editor ) , which doubles the chance of other things getting in the way . In light of that , I would say two weeks is definitely too early to worry and start contacting the editor ; give it at least a month . ( Although I know how stressful the wait at this stage of the publication process is ... )
Page length is one of the most basic things you can know about a document , and one of the few useful numerical measurements of a piece of writing . I personally find it helpful as an indicator of how " serious " something is . ( This holds for novels as well as papers . ) If I see one set of notes on a topic that are 8 pages long versus another set that are 56 pages , I have a good sense that the latter set is much more detailed than the former . Similarly , a 6-page paper entitled " Bounded gaps between primes " ( a famously hard problem , very unlikely to be solved in so short a work ) gives a very different impression than <URL> . While page length is not equated with how deep or interesting something is ( and of course depends on format ) , it can be at least suggestive . As a corollary , I also take page lengths into account when evaluating job candidates to get a sense of how productive they are . Regarding the definition , I think it 's safe to interpret page length as the number of pdf pages , as this is what most people will immediately see when they open the pdf . That said , if it 's a book , it 's perfectly fine to put something like 286 + xvii pages , but I doubt people will care much either way . Remember , this is just a preprint server .
Inertia/tradition accounts for many things . " Doing things they way they 've always been done " [ sic ] is usually considered defensible , too . Also , people have already-existing mental models for what a lecture should be like , often including specifics about the subject matter . The fact that information is available on-line is not wildly different from the fact that information was available in universities ' libraries . Yes , a sufficiently motivated person can simply go to the internet/library and find lots of information . A potential problem is that there is too much information , that it is fundamentally chaotic ( despite our attempts to impose order or develop " search engines " ) , and fundamentally hard for a non-expert to evaluate . Even worse , a non-expert may fail to realize that they are failing to correctly evaluate information . :) Still , yes , very many classes/lectures are boring , and attendance is often easily replaced by reading the designated textbook or other sources . However , in several decades of observation , many students ( at all levels ) either prefer or have become accustomed to a kind of passivity , so that they 'd rather show up somewhere at a regularly scheduled time , see their fellow students , and have the pace and content dictated to them by even a fairly boring lecturer . In my own student days , I did not like going to classes , for the obvious sorts of reasons : for one thing , if one had read the book , a slo-mo flawed , re-recital of it seems pointless in comparison to just re-reading at one 's own speed . Second , if one found the material interesting , why stop ? Why not read ahead ? Why not look at other sources , too , for complementary viewpoints ? Why not look at related stuff ? ( This was as feasible in libraries as it is on the internet , with perhaps two added advantages : there really was not much junk in libraries , since it was filtered , and , second , the chances of serendipitous discoveries in libraries was larger than on the internet . ) Such a process inevitably makes the " canned " lectures seem crazily irrelevant . ( Also , years ago , libraries were some of the few reliably air-conditioned places ! ) But let 's ignore the problem of student passivity , and ask why/how a lecture _ could_be _ better than just reading a book or searching on the internet . Arguably , a lecture is not better if it just amounts to reading from the book , copying from it onto a blackboard , etc. . I would claim that trying to make lectures simply present text-book material is a big mis-use of the medium ! That is , systematic presentation of all the details belongs in a book or on-line , but not in a lecture . Oppositely , what could be in a lecture that could not be in a book or notes ? " Affect " , meaning intonation , gestures , facial expressions , theatrical effects , and so on , are hard to put into writing , but ( by " lecturers " capable of it ) can be put into a lecture . This includes reaction to facial expressions and body language of the audience/students , and conversational interaction if the group is n't too large . For example , lectures can include " pep talks " that would be hard to fit into writing . " Reassurance " can be done live better than in writing , I think . Another feature is the " live/real-time " aspect : a lecturer ( in mathematics , my field , for example ) can literally do things in the lecture room , live , in real time , with voice-over narrative , in effect . That is , the audience can witness the genuine activity as exercised by an expert practitioner , with accompanying critical and methodological comments . Yes , up to a point , textbooks and monographs could be written in such a fashion , but it seems that stylistic pressures move them in the opposite direction , aiming for a sort of artificial perfection that can only be achieved by much editing ! Too often it seems that writing aims to create impressive edifices rather than be accessible , helpful ... and a live lecturer can easily do better , if they try . So , for my own lecturing , I definitely do think in terms of " adding value " beyond what students could derive from written sources , and in terms of using the medium in ways that distinguish it from static written sources ( and not having a lecture be a bad re-copying of those written sources ) .
It is up to the editor whether to accept or reject . The reviewers only make recommendations . Even if the reviewers give positive recommendations , the editor can decide to reject a paper . If both reviewers give negative recommendations , it is much less likely for the editor to accept a paper . If there is a mix of opinions the editor has to make a judgment , subject to whatever internal procedures the journal has in place . It seems like , this time , the decision was favorable for you .
I think your comment has very important information : This paper is just that . It presents helpful information but does n't develop any ideas or utilize the scientific method . So , it is not crappy , they are not unbacked claims ; it is just nothing new . As long as you are aware of it , and it is clear you are not trying to make it look different , it can not hurt you . You can think of this paper as a small review or class notes . The only thing that may hurt your reputation is if it had very serious mistakes , and you do n't address them . To be safe , just ask some of your colleagues to review it , even if it is not a thorough one . They should be able to tell you if it is correct , informative , and clear . And by all means , if it is informative , go ahead and publish it . Also , ArXiv is not only for preprints of papers . For example , I have seen philosophical dissertations on QM very non technical ( a second year Physics undergrad should be able to follow ) , or another about the story of protein folding research in a certain institution . Edit : Regarding your comment : but are arxiv posts considered publications for what you 're talking about ? i could put my grocery list there if I wanted to , right ? ArXiv is not peer reviewed , so the quality threshold is not so high . You can publish not so technical pieces , or sneak a bad article that looks just fine , they do n't count as official publications . But , on the other hand , they are better than nothing . Specially if you are at the beginning of your PhD , when you are not expected to have publications yet , your ArXive papers are an example of your capabilities . No one will use the sheer number of submitted papers , but if you have some fine pieces ( for example , a good , brief review of your field , previous research and terminology ) , can show you have a promising career for , for example , applying for summer schools or extra funding . Depending on your field , this kind of papers can be extremely useful . For example , in Bioinformatics , most people come from a CS background ( programming experts and good Mathematics , but knowing nothing about Biology and Chemistry ) , Biology ( lacking in Algorithmics , Machine Learning , and Statistics ) , Physics ( lots of Maths , but basic knowledge of mostly everything else ) ... For me , having a quick reference of the basic terminology of other disciplines would save me a lot of time , as I have to look up many simple concepts that would be obvious for , for example , a Chemist undergrad .
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
Posting a master 's thesis on the arXiv is uncommon , but not unheard of . My feeling is that there 's little point to it : if there 's material worth publishing in your thesis , then you should turn it into papers and post them on the arXiv ( in which case the thesis is unnecessary ) , and if it 's not worth publishing then it 's not worth posting to the arXiv . If you decide to post both the thesis and the papers to the arXiv , you should indicate the relationship between them clearly in the comments so you do n't look like you are inflating your publication record with duplicates , as well as in case you trigger the automated plagiarism detection in the arXiv . One potential issue is coauthors . If anything in your thesis is coauthored with someone else ( either from a previous paper or to appear in a future paper ) , then I do not think you should post the thesis to the arXiv . The problem is that you 'd be pointing readers towards a version that lists you as the only author and relegates your coauthors to a brief note in the text , and you would be increasing the chances that they would cite the thesis rather than the coauthored papers . Instead , it 's best to emphasize the papers by posting them to the arXiv instead .
A major perk of being an academic are the long breaks between terms , when we have the freedom to travel and make our own schedules . However , this comes coupled with the responsibility to keep being productive during these breaks , and this is harder than it sounds . You are wise to be thinking ahead about how to manage this . I 'm not sure exactly what you have planned , but I 'm going to guess it may include extended visits to see friends and family . Here are some things I have found useful : Explain to them that , although you are glad to get to spend time with them , you 're not on vacation from work the whole time . ( Non-academics often do n't realize this and assume the entire break is free time for you . ) Look ahead to set aside specific times in your schedule for work . Ask your hosts to check with you before planning any family activities , to make sure they do n't conflict . Again , they should n't assume that all your time is free . ( " Oh , but you ca n't work on your paper tomorrow ! I 've just arranged for us to go on a picnic with Uncle Jrgen ! " ) Consider going somewhere else to work , such as a library or cafe . Trying to work with relatives around is often distracting , especially if some are children . Set specific goals for what you want to accomplish during the trip . If you share them with your family ( and can convince them that they are exciting ) they may be able to help encourage you to work toward them , and to arrange things so that you have the time to do so .
This is answered in the FAQ for the <URL> : CUL [ Cornell University Library ] has an archival repository to support preservation of critical content from institutional resources , including arXiv . We anticipate storing all arXiv documents , both in source and processed form , in this repository . There will be ongoing incremental ingest of new material . We expect that CUL will bear the preservation costs for arXiv , leveraging the archival infrastructure developed for the library system . The same FAQ also tells you about the current funding model ( up until some years ago arXiv was entirely funded and ran by the Cornell University Library ; now funding comes from also the Simons Foundation as well as other participating university libraries ) . In terms of Cornell 's digital preservation policies , I can not find a full description online ( probably just due to my weak google-fu today ) ; but <URL> .
No . I think giving the arxiv link is fine . One alternative is to have two bibitem entries , one for the journal version and another for the arxiv version . I find it valuable to include the journal reference , because that shows that the article has been refereed ( so its claims gain legitimacy ) . But I also see the value of including the arxiv version , particularly if the journal is hard to access .
From your link : Where a government-funded or affiliated entity such as a University attempts to limit the freedom of expression of its students it must carefully consider the students ' Charter right to freedom of expression , and ensure that any limitation is reasonable , justified and compliant with the Charter . It seems like the difference between punishing people for sharing test questions and punishing them for criticizing professors is that one of these is " reasonable and justified , " while the other is n't .
As Andy Putman points out in his comment , the two addresses often go to the same place . Even if there are two different accounts , it 's common to forward e-mail from one to the other ( or to a third account ) . Nobody uses both accounts independently unless they have some idiosyncratic reason to do so . The existence of two addresses is not nearly as universal as you suggest . You do n't usually see english.university.edu or art-history . university.edu in e-mail addresses , for example . The departments that do have special addresses ( such as CS or math ) often ran their own mail servers long before university-wide servers were common . Some still do , because they do n't like the way the university servers are run or do n't trust them to be reliable , while others simply provide aliases for the university servers . Either way , getting rid of the departmental addresses would be disruptive , so they are likely to exist for the foreseeable future .
end question
start question
Should I trust a study that does n't mention sample size , but that is published in a scholarly journal ?
Why do n't you write the corresponding author and ask them what the sample size was . You can always cite the sample size , if you decide to use the study , as a personal communication .
Yes . They are going to see it in your CV anyway and if you say nothing , it just looks like you are trying to hide something and they are going to assume the worst . I would tell them the reasons why I quit ( e.g. what to do something applied , ... ) .
shall I communicate their inclusion in the acknowledgements section ? Yes , why not ? It helps at building connections and improving relationships . Besides , if the acknowledged people are from a different field than yours , they might never know you 've acknowledged them otherwise . what will be the correct etiquette for such an email ? I do n't think there is any need to be overly formal . Typically I would write something simple , along the lines of ( names and facts have been changed to protect the innocent ) : Dear John , thank you very much for helping me with the problem of packing holes . I 've included an acknowledgment in a paper I recently wrote on the topic . The paper is titled " Packing the unpackable and stacking the unstackable " and has been submitted to the Transactions on Painstaking Stacking . You can find a preprint of the paper at the address ( link to , e.g. , arXiv ) . Kind regards/Sincerely/Cheers , Massimo The above example is meant to be sent just after the first submission . In more critical cases , when I 'm not sure whether the acknowledgment would be well-received or not , or if I think I might have written a wrong detail ( e.g. , the affiliation ) , I typically send a copy of the paper before the submission , asking for feedback .
Submitting an academic paper for publication ( and potentially getting it accepted ) does not require any qualifications whatsoever . You do n't need a PhD ; you do n't even need to have gone to college . There are no educational , employment , or membership requirements at all . That 's not to say it 's easy to get a paper accepted with no formal training in the field . Learning how to write a compelling paper is much easier if you have a mentor to offer guidance . However , if you can figure out how to do it without a PhD , then your lack of a PhD will not be held against you .
Do not say : " I did engineering undergraduate because my parents made me . " Why ? Because you are applying for graduate school . The admissions committee wants to see adults . Referring to your parents ( at all ) makes it seem like you are not independent -- that your parents run your life . Whether or not they do , it does not benefit you to give such an impression . You do n't want to put the idea in their heads , whether or not it is true now ( or then ) . I suggest , if your really must mention it at all , something along the lines of : " My time as a Engineering undergraduate has made clear to me my true desires . While engineering is a interesting and worthy subject , my passion is for mathematical side I saw during my studies . "
In my opinion , yes . You paper will prove that those techniques are useful and usable by using them to solve a practical problem . I consider it a contribution to human kind , thus valuable to get published . Whether or not it will be accepted by journal/conference is another issue . You should try . Please send it to be peer-reviewed .
There are many papers out there that give a new proof of a previously-existing theorem . You can search for " a new proof of " in mathscinet ( or even google ) and find lots of good papers in respectable journals . However , the new proof must provide new insight to be worth publishing . Two proofs can look different but actually be very similar , in the sense that they are relying on the same key ideas . This can be a bit subtle ( and even subjective in edge cases ) , so it 's a good idea if possible to consult with an expert in your field before making your findings public . But if you manage to prove the result in a more elementary way than the original proof , that 's a big point in your favor . It 's always good to know that a result can be proven without appealing to a powerful theorem . If you go in the opposite direction ( e.g. showing that a theorem from the 1950s also follows from Fermat 's Last Theorem ) , you 're less likely to impress people .
A good way of posting comments , anonymously or not , with a good chance that other people will read them and react is <URL> . Although not all fields are covered , you can post your criticism on many articles . Sometimes authors react , sometimes publishers take action , sometimes nothing happens . what leverage is usually in process for a retraction to happen ? A good list of the cases where Pubpeer comments lead to retraction can be found on the Retraction Watch website : <URL>
In order to answer this question , we need to define some magnitudes of errors . A small error does not affect the conclusions and if the manuscript was accepted as is could be fixed in the proof stage before the manuscript goes to press . A minor error does not affect the conclusions but requires too many changes to be made that it could not be fixed in the proof stage . A substantial error affects the conclusions and would require the manuscript to be re-reviewed . If you have found a substantial error , you need to contact the editor and request the manuscript be pulled from the review process . You do not want to waste the time of the editor and reviewers . A small error can either be ignored or reported to the editor if you think that the correction will help save the reviewers time . Minor errors are the real problem . There is no easy way to tell the editor/reviewer what is wrong , but an unclear manuscript is likely to get negative reviews . I would suggest contacting the editor and explaining and apologizing for the problem . The real question should be how did you find the error ? What are you doing looking at a manuscript after it has been submitted ?
I would suggest that you investigate those interesting properties further and then have a paper along the lines of " this structure has this useful property , more-so ( or less-so ) than these other structures . " That is justify why someone would actually use this structure . Think about it from the editors ' point of view . Why should this paper be published ? If you ca n't provide an answer with a straight face then maybe you should wait until there is a purpose for it .
Yes , it can be mentioned . I would put a category on your CV titled " service to the profession . " In that section , mention the year and the name of the journal that asked you to referee . It 's not a major point , but it shows that you 're willing to be a team player and help out the journal . That speaks both to your professionalism and to the fact that the editor trusted your judgment .
If you have published a paper , you should include it in your CV . It does not matter what language the paper is in . For the aid of people who do not speak the language , however , you may wish to include a translation of the paper title as a note , e.g. , : J. Caesar , Commentarii de Bello Gallico [ Commentaries on the Gallic war ] , Caesar House Press , 49 BC , ( in Latin )
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
In the US , it is very unusual to combine the title " Professor " with a first name . I have never been referred to as " Professor Tom " in my whole career . You can either write " Dear Prof. Smith " , using the family name , or " Dear John " . You should only write " Dear John " if you would call him " John " when you speak in person . ( For people you have n't met in person , the decision is a bit different ; but for people who you know personally , this is a good rule . ) For example , my students generally call me " Prof. Church " , but sometimes after they graduate I invite them to call me Tom ; in this case , it would be perfectly appropriate to send me a letter beginning " Dear Tom " . I would use " Hi John " only to convey a very informal tone . Even with colleagues or students with whom I 'm good friends outside of work , I still use " Dear Mary " when contacting them about professional business . For this reason , I do n't recommend using " Hi Prof. Smith " ; it mixes an informal term with a formal term .
Ultimately , no , you ca n't . There 's no infrastructure to say " I want to get a single DOI for XYZ arbitrary url " . DOIs for most scholarly publications are issued through CrossRef . CrossRef do not assign DOIs directly , but delegate this to members or their agents . Members , who are usually publishers , pay a fee to the central consortium , and agree to issue DOIs based on a <URL> . As you can see from these rules , the general sense of membership is " organisations issuing DOIs for stuff they control " . While there is n't an explicit prohibition against assigning DOIs to third-party material ( which surprised me ! ) , point 4 comes pretty close : Members have an obligation to maintain the metadata and URLs associated with all registered DOIs . There is also a general prohibition of ' duplicative ' works including preprints : Crossref only registers DOIs for Definitive Works ( or Versions of Record , if not formally published ) but not for Duplicative Works , as defined in the Crossref Glossary . This means that only original scholarly material , for which there is no actual DOI at the time of submission , and no expected duplication in future , is admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Crossref does not permit multiple DOIs to be assigned to certain closely related versions of a work , and hence does not support assignment of DOIs to Pre-prints or Post-prints of Definitive Works or to the Personal Version or a Self-archived Copy of a Definitive Work . For the same reasons , materials for which DOI duplication can be reasonably anticipated , such as an Authors Original Draft of a work being prepared for publication , are not admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Putting those together , it seems likely that CrossRef 's terms would prevent a member agreeing to issue a DOI for a ( potentially duplicative ) work hosted somewhere out of their control . So , could you get a DOI from someone else , outside of CrossRef ? Probably not . DOIs are only issued through a number of central registration authorities ( eg CrossRef , DataCite ) . These have <URL> areas of activity ( eg DataCite wo n't issue DOIs for publications ) and , to the best of my knowledge , none offer a " DOI for an arbitrary URL " service .
Ask your university librarian . Usually universities libraries collaborate with each other . They can look whether the other universities have the book ( I know this happens within Canadian universities ) . .
The terminology for longitudinal research designs differs somewhat between disciplines . However , to my knowledge most discipline refer to a " cohort " as an entity that can be distinguished by a certain event as for example the year of birth or graduation from high school . The general idea is that there is an observable variable for the cohort membership and that individuals from the same " cohort " have something in common , e.g. the risk to die from lung cancer due to a common time of exposure . Thus , a " cohort study " looks at one cohort or compares different cohorts . In most cases , cohort studies use longitudinal research designs , but there are also cross-sectional cohort studies . The use of the term " panel study " seems to me more vague but a " panel study " is in most cases a longitudinal study which has at least observations from two points in time . Panel studies do not need to focus on cohorts . Hence , cohort and panel studies both look specifically at the timing of certain events and variables . For further information you could for example have a look at the following articles in the International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences : Mason , W.M. and Wolfinger , N.H. 2001 : Cohort Analysis , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 2189-2194 . Duncan , G.J. 2001 : Panel Surveys : Uses and Applications , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 11009-11015 .
Perhaps the best approach would be to ask leading questions that helps the lecturer head in the right direction . Or , offer an answer to a question that was n't going well . I 've taught classes ( especially ones that use complex libraries , such as parts of a game engine , that I was n't a seasoned expert with ) , and have had students who had more experience with a specific topic chime in to the discussion with details I did n't know . It was great . I 've also had students who were aggressive and conveyed arrogance and had them derail the class by setting up a me vs them dynamic . Not so great . The most important thing is classroom dynamics : let the lecturer retain control ( ie . facilitate the discussion ) but you actively participate . The lecturer should be there to create a learning environment , not bestow knowledge on the class . You can make it clear you know the topic , and let them have you participate as much as they are comfortable . Asking to " take over " would not go over well ; offering your knowledge on bits and pieces and nudging the lecturer in the right direction through questions would be better .
I do n't know why you think there are any options other than both . Of course you should n't just say " I 'm having difficulties , full stop " without talking about what you have tried . Of course you should n't just say " this is what I did " without also talking about where you 're stuck . You sound like you 're worried about making the best impression on this professor . The best impression you can make here is showing that you have the maturity to deal with doing research : to work hard on a problem , be aware of both what you 've accomplished and what you have n't , and be able to ask for help where you need it . There are bunch of things that could be happening : You went off in the wrong direction , or missed something , and the professor will be able to help get you back on the right track . The problem is actually harder than the professor thought , and explaining why you 're stuck will make that clear to them . The problem is harder than you thought , and the professor expected you to need some help . In all of those cases , the absolute best thing to do is honestly present the work you 've done . The less you worry about framing things to make you look good , the better you actually end up looking .
You do n't typically cite material that helps you understand a topic . You cite material that you explicitly use in a paper . So source books like a C++ book do n't need to be cited unless you 're using an unusual and explicit construction mentioned in one of those books . For example , there 's a technique to draw a geometric object using GPUs that was first mentioned in an graphics programming textbook : people using the technique will cite that textbook . Wikipedia is not supposed to be a repository of original material , so if you found something on wikipedia then there 's likely to be an original source that Wikipedia should cite and that you should as well ( once you verify it ) . For a website it 's a similar principle . If the website contains code that you 're using , then cite it ( or better yet , cite the associated material that the code authors might suggest you cite instead ) . But if the website merely contains expository material that helps understanding , then you do n't cite it .
end question
start question
Where can I get a cheap , virtual , high-performance server suitable for academic use ?
In most countries , there exist high performance computers that researchers can apply for access to . For example , in Sweden there is the <URL> , and other countries have similar projects . When you get access , you get a limited number of core-hours ( for example , if you have 5000 core hours , you can run 50 cores for 100 hours or 500 cores for 10 hours ) to be used over a specific period of time ( for example , one year ) . To apply for access , you may have to go through someone who is employed at a university , if you are n't . If you are a student , you hopefully have a supervisor who can apply for your project . Or they might have special services for students !
If you are applying as an international student , you need TOEFL . It does not depend on you high school education . For international students , you will be considered as a non-native english speaker , so toefl is necessary . If you are applying as a domestic student ( meanign you have citizenship/greencard ) , you dont need toefl . Anyways , toefl is a very easy exam !
I know of a few graduate students who successfully made money doing consulting in their line of work . Most of these were engineering students , where the knowledge gained during graduate school is easily transferable , but I 've seen others as well . If you 're interested in this , talk to as many people as you can and network , network , network . It can be a fun side project with the potential to become a full-time job if you 're interested . Another very useful skill that some graduate students may be able to do is <URL> . While you may not realize it , this skill is necessary in many , many industries , and if you 're good at writing , you can make earn some good income contracting out your skills .
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
What you describe is , in my opinion , horribly unethical ! Yes , past performance is often a predictor of present performance , but there are so many other factors involved as well . What if a student did poorly before because of any number of reasons , but have since stepped up their work , caught up , and really mastered the material ? Or what if the student has been focusing heavily on this subject and has consequently fared more poorly in another subject ? It is manifestly stupid and counter to the entire notion of education to ignore good work by a student in one location simply because the student did bad work in another course or another time . Ethical violations are a different matter -- it is reasonable to be suspicious of a student with a history of cheating -- but grading a student poorly for having the audacity to exceed expectations is a rank betrayal of the most basic responsibilities of an educator .
One important general comment : It seems like you feel as though the department will leave you on your own to take these " needed undergraduate courses " . I find this highly unlikely ! If a department admits you ( and funds you ) , then they are on your side and want you to succeed ! If you are lacking some " satisfactory undergraduate training " , then the admissions committee will know this before offering you a spot in their program . When they make you an offer , they know what you specifically will need to do to meet the requirements of their program , and it 's in the best interest of the department to help you work towards meeting these requirements . If you enroll in a graduate program , you will be expected to get your knowledge of the basic areas of the subject up to the standard set by the department . Moreover , you will be expected to do this according to their timeline . Sometimes this may require you to take some undergraduate courses , which is not a big deal . In my experience in mathematics graduate school , students given the " standard " teaching assistantship are free to take courses of virtually any kind ( with perhaps the approval of the math department ) , and the tuition for these courses is covered by the assistantship automatically . There is no extra assistantship needed for such courses . In my department , I 've never heard of a student being denied permission to take courses outside of the department , and I 've seen math grad students take undergraduate courses like dance and Japanese . So presumably if you were a " fully funded " grad student and you needed to take some undergrad courses while in grad school , these would be covered by your existing assistantship . As to your last question : For the " standard " teaching assistantship , in math , it is typical that the student maintains ( or rather , annually renews ) the assistantship until she is done with the degree . This is of course dependent on the student making satisfactory progress towards the degree , as defined by each individual department .
I am assuming you are an undergraduate ; correct me if I 'm wrong and I 'll amend my answer . It has been my experience that summer internships at a university that you do n't attend are very rare . My advisor explicitly ignored all cold emails from students asking if they could work with her during the summer ( even if they were not asking to be paid ) . Logistically , without being enrolled in the school , things like getting access to school servers , badgeing/keys for offices , etc. is just that much more difficult , and professors just do n't have the time to vet students from external schools , nor much of an incentive to do so . With that caveat : Ask home university/department/professor for contacts and use that connection ? Absolutely , but it is going to take more than getting contacts to get a summer internship . Unless your professor reaches out to those contacts himself/herself , you 're probably not going to get much traction . What if I have no prior research experience and professors only know me from classes ? Then you are less likely to entice them to help you . You 're better off trying to work with those professors at your own university instead of trying to use them to work somewhere else . Google and send CV + Statement to ( many ) professors via email and hope for the best Please do n't bother them -- they get too much spam to begin with . You 'll not only waste your time , but theirs as well . Google for positions that are explicitly offered for 8-10 week summer internships This is the best option , but I suggest not limiting yourself to universities and to branch out to look for internship experience in industry ( if this is such a thing in your field ) . For one , there are probably more opportunities , and secondly , they are generally more structured and you might get more out of the experience . Incidentally , many professors use the summer months for work-related travel and to take vacation . This makes it even more unlikely that you will find a position , as the number of professors around during the summer is minimal . On the other hand , if you happen to find a professor that will assign you to one of his/her graduate students , you could potentially still work in the lab under the grad student tutelage instead of directly for the professor ( and , indeed , this is probably what will happen in any lab -- as an undergraduate you will probably work more for the graduate students than for the professor , although this obviously varies by school and professor ) .
Find the hallway where your department 's faculty have their offices . Knock on the first door . When the professor answers , say " Hi , I 'm [ name ] . I 'm a master 's student , and I 'm interested in doing research . Do you have some time to talk ? " Repeat for the remaining doors . ( It also helps to have some idea what kind of research you want to do , and to do some background reading on the professors ' research before you talk to them . We like it when students say " I read your paper on X , and I have a few questions . " )
You need to run this by your Institutional Review Board ( IRB ) , as you would any time you use data from human subjects for research . From what you describe , it has a good chance of qualifying for an <URL> under one of these categories ( if identifying information is removed before giving the data to the researcher ) : It is using existing data the data comes from normal educational practices but even then , the IRB needs to be the one to make that determination .
There are a number of ways in which a DOI could be linked to a dataset : <URL> will provide a DOI for any deposited work , which includes data . <URL> also provides DOIs for any kind of research output , including datasets <URL> provides DOIs for data submissions linked to papers ( for a fee , which includes storage , curation , archival , &amp; checks for best-practice [ HT @DaisieHuang for pointing out my lazy description of fee previously ] ) You might also look to see if a domain-specific repository provides a DOI for data . The journal <URL> maintains a good list of repositories you can look at . Choosing a DOI provider will depend on particular circumstances . Both Figshare and Zenodo are both free to use services for example whereas Dryad charges for the service they offer to cover ongoing storage and archival costs . Some points of comparison between Figshare , Dryad , and Zenodo , etc Dryad accepts data relating to publications ; if it is n't associated with a paper then they wo n't accept it . Figshare and Zenodo will accept any research output , whether linked to publication or not . In that sense Figshare and Zenodo are more broadly applicable to any research outputs . Data may be more discoverable in Dryad or domain-specific repositories ( DSRs ) than in general purpose ones likes Figshare &amp; Zenodo . Data is likely to be formatted in standard ways and more easily searched by online or other tools if they are archived in Dryad or DSRs . This is likely to encourage reuse . Figshare is a for-profit commercial entity , Zenodo is run by CERN and was supported by the EU OpenAIRE project at one point , whilst Dryad is an not-for-profit entity supported by research grants and membership fees for organisations .
Yes , it 's fine to do that . If you do an introduction on the topic or you are comparing your results/methods to others you can talk about/show their work and you even should do that . Just be careful that you talk enough about your own research and you always make it very clear if something was done by someone else .
The answers to these questions are very dependent on the field of study . My perspective is mostly from economics and some statistics , so things might be different in other fields . From an unknown school , it will be very difficult , but not impossible , to get into a really top program . Top programs tend to be risk-adverse , and you 're facing pretty stiff competition in the applicant pool . The biggest issue is that they are going to have a difficult time evaluating the difficulty of your coursework . Assuming you get that far , you 're often going to be compared to a second-tier candidate from a top university . They know exactly how to evaluate the latter 's grades and can even compare him/her to past students from that school . You will be much more of an unknown , which is not a good thing . To make up for this , you 're going to need exemplary letters . But that 's the second issue , your access to great recommenders is more limited than someone at a top program . Letters of recommendation are often put in context by comparing them to previous letters from the same person , and here you might run into the same issue as evaluating your grades . Personal and professional relationships can also come into play , and your recommenders are less likely to be well-known in the field . Letters from people who are n't active researchers are much less valuable as well , and depending on the college you might not even have good access to active researchers . At minimum , you 'll need near-perfect grades in the most difficult courses offered . This probably means being one of the " superstar " students at your school , easily the best in your class . You 'll also need fantastic letters from the top researchers that you have access to , and , for econ at least , significant research experience . For your second question , general work experience is worth almost nothing in economics . All that matters is research experience . If the work you 're doing is n't contributing to something that will eventually be published in a peer-reviewed journal , then it 's extremely unlikely that it will be helpful . I should also mention an option that is often available in economics , though I do n't know if other fields have analogues . And that is to take a job as a research assistant for a professor or research group . These are often 2-3 year jobs that offer a chance to do real research with just a BA . Ideally , you could apply to graduate schools in two years with a coauthored paper on the way and a fantastic letter of rec from an active researcher . Classic examples in econ are working for the <URL> or for a professor 's research group ( <URL> ) .
You should use the date conferred . Universities will have an official date where all degrees for the term are conferred on everyone . This is usually not the same date as the graduation ceremony as there can be multiple graduation ceremonies across multiple days , but trying to keep track of all of them would be confusing . It 's much simpler to just pick one day after all the ceremonies and say all degrees are official as of that date . That being said , I 've never heard of an employer ( or anyone ) who really cares about the particular date as long as it 's clear that you 've already met all of the requirements of graduation .
In the context of a university , self-plagiarism ( or auto-plagiarism , as it tends to be known ) generally only refers to submitting the same work for two or more different credit-bearing assignments within the institution , or submitting work which has been awarded credits at another institution . There 's generally no restriction on using work submitted for a university degree in a publication , unless the university specifically expresses its ownership of that work ( which sometimes happens if the work was involved in a commercial or collaborative project ) . You can get into trouble for publishing the same work in more than one publication , but because the contract you sign with the publishers will specifically prohibit you from doing this ( or will specifically allow it ) this is not plagiarism as much as it is fraud . Even then , providing they know in advance , most publishers will allow authors to include chapters in monographs that are based around previously published articles , providing the initial copyright holder gives their consent ( which in academic work they usually will , as long as the original publication is cited ) .
The first question is why you want the rights . For example , if you are working on something with serious commercial applications and hope to start a company or sell the technology , then this is a very serious issue . The first step is hiring a lawyer , who can advise you on precisely which rights you and the university currently hold , and who can help you negotiate with the university regarding commercialization . On the other hand , most student projects are of no commercial value . If you just want to display your work online ( to help build a portfolio for job applications and in case this work is useful for someone else ) , then it 's probably easier . It may depend on the university , but presumably they do n't want to limit the dissemination of student projects , so if you ask them I bet they 'll grant permission . You should think about exactly what you want to provide and under what sort of license ( for example , if you put code on the web , nobody 's allowed to use it unless you license that ) . I imagine the university would be happy with some sort of Creative Commons license . I 'd recommend being very clear and straightforward when asking , to avoid raising suspicions that you are trying to trick them into giving up the rights to valuable technology .
Industrial jobs are announced on different basis than academic ones . Typically , there is no a position to be filled . Rather ( larger companies ) are hiring on semi-continuous basis , and assign people to groups internally . Sometimes there are more research-oriented openings , for example <URL> . Just bear in mind it is mostly very applied science , and in fields like Machine Learning , Statistics , maybe some Graph Theory or Cryptography . So look at big companies ( smaller companies may not have such specialized positions or money to invest in long-term development ) in technology ( Google , Microsoft , Facebook , ... ) and their openings . When it comes to direct positions , usually you can choose only after interviews ( you rarely see research positions being on the front page ) . If it is nice research , or building webpages in a disguise , the only way is to ask people working at the company . Or look at CVs of your colleagues in your field who did internships in these companies ( especially ones that you know are pure mathematicians or computer scientists ) .
Emphasise that there is no right or wrong method I do n't think it is worth giving a prescriptive set of rules on what to do and what to avoid . Learning is a very personal process and what works for one person may be useless to another . I think the most useful thing that a teacher can do is to describe as many different techniques or variations as possible , and let the student decide what works for them . It may be that highlighting the whole text just helps them to read by providing something for the hands to do . I believe some dyslexic students find the bright colours more helpful than a black and white page . Encourage your students to examine their own learning process . Encourage them to think about what it is they are trying to achieve via highlighting - help reading in the short term ? Long-term memory retention ? Make reviewing the article at a later date easier ? But hopefully , if the purpose is to pick out key points , then by making them stop and consider this consciously , they will be able to draw their own conclusion that highlighting an entire page is not helpful .
A number of UK universities have their policies on the appointment of Honorary positions on their websites . It appears from a number of them that the appointments are usually made upon the request from for example , the head of a school , within the institution . It appears ( from the University of St Andrews ) that appointments are made when it is deemed to be beneficial to both parties . An Honorary appointment is an arrangement which allows distinguished individuals from other institutions and organisations to collaborate with academic staff at the University of St Andrews and have access to certain University facilities to further their own research , cooperate on joint research or contribute to the teaching of the University . It recognises an ongoing association with the University . In all of the policies it appears that the Head of School makes that application and it is the HR department that makes the final decision on the granting of the Honorary position . I relation to gaining a Honorary position , I would think that if you are well known in your field of research there is a better chance of gaining one . Here is a list of links to policies for the following universities . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> In Ireland ( my home country ) I believe they are occasionally awarded . Trinity College Dublin have Honorary positions in their <URL>
Of course , the best solution to this problem is not to have it in the first place . Being proactive and thinking about the future is sometimes a rare talent , especially in 18 year olds fresh out of high school , but then again grad school is supposed to select the exceptional individuals . There is a world of difference between a recommendation from someone you worked with , and from a mere acquaintance . The latter kind rarely benefits your application in a meaningful way , and can sometimes even hurt it . No matter how enthusiastic your instructor is , unless the course is at least a project-centric course ( eg . grade is based entirely on your individual term project ) , they will not be able to make a good , in depth argument for your abilities , and the recommendation will therefore be weak . The point of the recommendation is that the admissions committee will read it , and decide whether you have potential to be a good researcher . How can they , if the recommendation does not talk about your research at all ? And how much better if instead of hinting at your potential indirectly by citing course performance , the recommender can just say " this person has potential to be a great researcher because I have personally seen that they are good at research " ? This is why there is a qualitative difference . This can be a big problem when applying to a very selective program . What if you apply to a program where the committee has a philosophy that " an application is only as strong as its weakest link " ? Even if you are quite exceptional otherwise , you can get eliminated early on because there are many other applicants who are also exceptional , but do n't have a recommendation problem . Also , similar to how a lukewarm recommendation can mean " I think this person is a bad candidate , but I am not being negative out of politeness " , a recommendation from someone who only taught a course can mean " this person is a slacker who never bothered to do real work , so they ca n't find any supervisors to recommend them " . The best way to remedy is really to obtain more " good " recommenders . Because you want people who supervised you , the solution is obvious : You have n't been supervised by enough people who will vouch for you ; you must undertake more projects and be supervised by other people whose recommendation will carry weight . If still in school , look for faculty whose lab you can work in . If that is difficult , try approaching a former ( or current ) instructor with an idea for a theoretical or computational project ( this requires less commitment from them , so they may be easier to convince ) . It does n't necessarily have to be original research , so long as you can come up with a relatively long term ( at least half a year ) project where you are the primary contributor . It could also be ( more ) valuable to spend a summer working in a lab at a different university . If out of school , delay your application by 1-3 years , and look for work as a lab tech at a university , institute or private company . Make sure not to displease your boss . A related problem is working for a long time with the same person , for instance an undergrad who spends 3 years in the same lab . This is actually better , because you can accomplish much more in 3 years , and you can have a very impressive project to sell yourself with . The issue is that you will have only one supervisor - but hopefully after 3 years , you will have networked with collaborators and other scientists and will not have a problem there .
I do n't have the statistics at hand for the case of students . But there was recently a publication of mobility statistics for scientists on 16 countries : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What are the career prospects after being an RA ?
Being an RA ( Research Assistant ) means you get to work closely with one or more post-docs and faculty members in a context that generally requires technical , problem-solving , and communication skills -- skills that are definitely valued highly by employers . So , assuming that you do a good job , your supervisors should be able to write strong recommendation letters for you , recommend you to recruiters from industry , or possibly put you in touch with people they know in industry . Also , you may be able to use your RA work and experience as a discussion item in interviews . A lot of the industry jobs that undergrads tend to work in look ( to me ) like grunt-work : website development and maintenance , routine programming , stuff like that . It seems to me that an RA would be much more preferable than those simply because it can allow you to be more creative and possibly also sharpen your communication skills . Of course , it 's possible that you have some unusual set of skills -- say , Unix guru or security honcho -- that would make you suitable for a very different kind of industry job that would be even more attractive to employers down the road -- but in my experience this tends to be rare .
The major quantifiable predictor of success in research is ... success in research . People who have done research successfully in the past are more likely than not to continue to do so . For students that have not done research in the past , the best predictor I have seen for success ( whatever that may be ) is expressed in a quote from The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research , by Marian Petre &amp; Gordon Rugg : A willingness to learn for themselves and good judgement about when to stop and ask for feedback . * It 's not exactly quantifiable , but you can get a sense for it in an interview . ( Of course , this quality can be learned , so a lack of it does n't necessarily predict an inability to succeed at research . ) * I took this quote completely out of context ; the authors there are actually discussing the role of the PhD advisor , and they mention this quality in reference to a student " who can be pretty much left to get on with it , with supervisory meetings being something that both parties enjoy , and where each party learns from the other . "
I would say that this is one time when taking a year off is not recommended . You are at your peak right now in a number of ways : You have very recent publications and just received your degree . Both have a discernible half-life when it comes to being hired in academia ( particularly for the first time ) . You know the most people in your field , including your advisor and other professors who can write you up-to-date recommendation letters . You have the most current knowledge of your field , and although it sounds like you 're going to continue to publish , you wo n't be as able to actively learn ( then again , I know from your previous posts that you were full-time employed during your PhD , so that may not be an issue ) . I 'm assuming that the timing is different in Australia , but in the U.S. there are generally key times of the year that academic hiring happens -- you put together applications in Nov-Jan and hope to land interviews and talks in the Feb-April time frame . If there is a similar time-frame in Australia , I would make sure you have the time available to put together applications and go on interviews , whether it is this year or after another year . I assume you 'll still be allowed to publish under your previous school 's affiliation post-PhD defense , but if that is n't the case , I would urge you to figure out a way to work that out . Finally ( and I 'm not really in a position to comment directly on this ) is the question about how your job applications will be received with a year gap from academia . My feeling is that an extra paper will help you but that the time away wo n't help you ( even though it is n't technically away it will be noticeable that you got your PhD a year prior ) , and it may be a wash . You 'll have to consider this when you write your cover letters and research statement . I would think about how ( if at all ) you justify the extra year of high school teaching post-PhD in a cover letter . You 've already got plenty of teaching experience under your belt to prove your teaching credentials , so an extra year in the classroom wo n't be beneficial from that standpoint .
This does not fully answer your question , but it is certainly one consideration . Multidisciplinary theses are often examined by multidisciplinary committees . Examining such theses is difficult , especially if the committee has no experience examining multidisciplinary theses . A consequence is that you will often be forced to conform to the conventions of different communities . In addition , the chemistry committee member may not see the thesis as a chemistry thesis and the sociology committee member may not see the thesis as a sociology thesis , because it lies somewhere in between the two fields and can not be a complete thesis in both fields .
In my entire scientific career , I have seen religious belief come up precisely once : an ( apparently Christian ) author closed a paper with " AMDG , " which apparently stands for <URL> . Of the set of three peer reviewers , one ignored it , one was confused by it , and one asked for it to be deleted as irrelevant to the substance of the paper . The authors removed the acronym as part of their revision ( amongst other changes ) and the paper was published . The other place that I know that religion comes into play in scientific publication ( though I have not personally encountered it ) , is when a person attempts to use statements from their religion as evidence for a position . This never goes well : in a scientific context , claiming " the Bible says ... " or " the Koran says ... " is equivalent to saying " The Lord of the Rings says ... " or " Fifty Shades of Grey says ... " Such a document is a secondary source at best , and one that has no particular reason to be regarded as a reliable source of evidence , despite the magnitude of cultural belief . Such books can , of course , be cited and analyzed just as any other literary/historical work , but that is different than using them as evidence for a scientific position . So , in short : if you do n't make your religion an issue in your manuscript , it should never come up as an issue in the normal scientific publication process . This does n't mean you might not encounter horrible and inappropriate behavior ( scientists are just as capable of being terrible people as anybody else ) but it is definitely outside the norm of the peer review and publication process .
Unless the search committee is swamped and is looking for reasons to reject a candidate , a late letter will not tank the application . But here 's what can happen : letter requests are sent out for candidate A and B. B 's letters are delayed . In the meantime , A 's letters come back and they are quite good . The committee starts going ahead with interviews for A. Then , for other reasons , the committee feels that A might suffice to cover the area that A and B both overlap in , and they might move on to other candidates . This would only happen if the letter is REALLY late ( multiple weeks ) . And if candidate B has any level of interest , there 's always someone who 'll chase down the letter writer . So overall I 'd say not to worry greatly , but make sure the letter is n't more than a week or so late . Also it would n't hurt to check with the committee on the " hardness " of the deadline .
For a public lecture , yes . You are inviting the audience to show their appreciation for the speaker and the effort it takes to address a public audience , and to acknowledge the opportunity afforded them to see and hear the speaker . In turn , when I first start speaking to a public audience -- regardless of whether I get a welcoming round of applause -- I always thank the audience for coming to my talk . The combination of welcoming applause and sincere appreciation towards the audience makes for a positive shared experience , right from the start . Things are different for non-public talks , such as at your department 's colloquia , or a workshop , or ( non-keynote ) conference speaker . Here , the vibe is that the talk is expected and , in some regards , a routine part of the job of an academic . Showing up and presenting is expected , rather than a treat , or something out of the ordinary .
Yes . Publication requires both the consent of the publisher ( via the editor or program committee ) and the consent of the authors . If you do not consent to publish under the conditions imposed by the publisher , you can just say no .
It would be very strange for a faculty member to live with student roommates ( setting aside relatives or romantic partners , which are separate issues ) . It would be considered socially unacceptable in the university contexts I 'm familiar with , and it would create at least the appearance of conflicts of interest if there was any overlap between the fields . Even if the students were in a totally different field , it could still be awkward if they socialized a lot with students in the professor 's field . This does n't mean it would be impossible , but I 'd strongly recommend against trying it . Even in the best case scenario , people would wonder why living with these students was important enough to be worth the negative attention . As for staff , it depends . I do n't think it would be unusual or problematic for , say , a university IT staff member to share an apartment with some similar-aged grad students . Postdocs are a gray area : it would of course be inappropriate to live with students they might teach or supervise , but otherwise it 's much easier for a postdoc to get away with living with students than a faculty member .
There is no official protocol or formal procedure . Here is how I handle it . I skim the arxiv submission in my fields of interest every day ( headlines and abstracts ) . Every few days I find some things that I read in greater detail and if it happens that I find something that I 'd like to discuss with the authors , I write a joint email to all of them . Could be a question for clarification , a hint for further reading or something like " look here , I 've done something related " . Once in while I take the time to write a blog post for some article and then it sometimes ( rarely ) happens that one of the authors comments on my blog .
In general , I think this sounds like a great idea . I would further say that the same essential content is often a good starting point for your personal professional website . The only potential downside that I see is that in the future you might look back with embarrassment on naive ideas in your statement where your feelings have evolved over time . If you have enough self-confidence to be OK with with that , it 's fine : nobody will expect a mature researcher to believe all of the same things they did when just starting grad school .
I moved from a PhD in Astrophysics to an industry job some years ago , so I can share my experience , as well as the experience that a number of my fellow grad students had . This was in the United States , so things may be different in other countries . The basic idea is that as far as most industry is concerned , a PhD in astronomy/astrophysics is the same as physics , so any job looking for a physics background will do . Jobs looking for a mathematics/statistics background are probably close enough as well , and worth applying to . Your most marketable skills are your ability to code and do math/statistics while working with data . This is EXTREMELY valuable in industry . Your knowledge of astronomy and physics is likely not very valuable except in some very specific jobs . Some specific fields that aggressively hire people with PhDs in astronomy in large amounts : 1 ) Quantitative Finance - The financial world hires a lot of people with PhDs in math/physics/stats to be quants . There are a lot of pros/cons to this field , but it pays well at least . 2 ) Defense Contractors - This is very much a research type environment . However , this almost always requires that the applicant have US citizenship in the United States in order to obtain security clearance . 3 ) Software Engineering - A background in coding , data analysis , and mathematics is very desirable . You will likely want to brush up on your programming since scientific programming is not usually software engineering , as well as your statistics . You can try for more specialized fields like medical imaging , but it is often difficult to compete with the physicists with specialized backgrounds in that specific niche in my experience .
[ Expanding @Thomas 's comment into an answer , so the question may be resolved ] The best way to figure out how a person would like their name listed is to simply ask them directly , as opposed to attempting to infer it from their biographical information . Thus , when you are putting together the program , name tags , etc. let the form have a blank saying something like : Name , as you would like it to appear in the official conference program Note that sometimes people want something different on their badge and on official listings , so it 's worth having two blanks if you are asking about badges as well .
In my field the thinking is It draws attention to posters from conference participators . It provides encouragements to individuals ( students ) to make an extra effort It encourages discussion about " good poster design " The selection criteria is always focusing on good communication of good science , never one or the other . Since such awards are given only to students and there ids usually also a similar student presentation award both selected by a set of valued senior scientists , the award should be and is seen as a merit .
In general , " Universitetslektor " is the closest the Swedish system has to an " associate professor " in the US system , and is close to a " lecturer " in the British system . The more junior rank would be " Bitrdande lektor " , and the more senior " Professor " . There are some subtleties in play here though ; most importantly for the linked position is the phrase " tidsbegrnsade anstllningar " . This means that the position is for a limited time only -- they are hiring from March to December , supposedly to fill an urgent teaching need . The limit in time signals several things . One of them is that it is likely to be important to shoulder the teaching required -- it might , depending on the department and their situation , for instance be difficult to buy out teaching time with research funds . Another is that it comes with none of the tenure guarantees usual " lektorat " provides . Since the position is time-limited , it will evaporate at the end of the time , to be replaced with a different position if the department finds the funds to hire again . The hierarchy to figure out how the ranks work would be something like : Tidsbegrnsad anstllning : Time-limited appointment . Not subject to tenure-like employment protection . Adjunkt : Adjunct teacher . Needs not have a doctorate . Fills a teaching need . Bitrdande lektor : Similar to tenure track ; usually time-limited to 4-6 years , at the end of which a review takes place deciding whether to upgrade the position to ... Lektor : The most common of Swedish University teaching/research positions . Obligated to teach , but can usually trade teaching time against research grant money . At every University I have ever interacted with , these come with an obligation for a certain amount of pedagogical qualifications -- and if you are hired without pedagogical coursework in your CV , you may have to spend large swathes of your first year studying higher education pedagogy . Professor : Similar to Professor in the UK or Full or even Named professorships in the US . It used to be very rare -- one or two per field was n't uncomomon ; but since 1999 , Professor is a possible target for promotion from Lektor , which increases the numbers . Before the 1999 reform , a Professor could not be fired , even under usual Swedish employment protection rules . In summary : " Universitetslektor " is an essentially tenured position . They all come with heavy-looking teaching loads , but it is common in Sweden to reduce teaching loads with grant money . " Tidsbegrnsad anstllning " is a non-tenured and likely to be teaching-heavy position .
The professor encouraged you to apply -- so that 's what he expects you to do next . It is nothing wrong in your attempt to establish a more substantial connection with him and to promote yourself in his eyes , it increases your chances to get selected . However , imagine that at the same time there are probably 100 + other candidates , trying to do exactly the same -- sending him several smart research questions , involving him in some discussion , and expecting to chat over Skype with him in a few days . How would you feel in his shoes ? Of course , professors want to be available for their potential PhD students , TAs and colleagues , and of course , they want to participate in the selection process . But many of them do not want to carry out all the communication themselves -- that 's what secretariat , admissions , and HRs are for ! I assume there is a formal route to submit your application , and I suggest exactly what your professor suggested -- prepare your application and submit as instructed . If in a meantime you receive a message from him -- go forth and suggest a Skype meeting . If not -- assume that the professor is busy , and submit your application before the deadline anyway .
Universities offer all sort of " benefits " to its employees . Some of these " benefits " do not have a monetary value ( e.g. , flexible work schedule ) . The benefits available to faculty are often different from the cleaning staff . Further there are differences in benefits between tenured/tenure track and adjunct faculty . I can only think of three benefits , that have a monetary value , for which there are differences between tenure track and tenured faculty Sabbatical : Some universities do not permit pretenure sabbaticals . It is often hard to differentiate if sabbatical eligibility is tied to tenure or time in service . <URL> provides different sabbatical benefits pre and post tenure . Housing Assistance : Some universities provide housing assistance ( discounted homes , mortgage assistance , loans , etc ) . Portions of the <URL> requires tenure . Parking : Some universities provide parking passes . <URL> provides reserved spaces for tenured faculty while other faculty and staff simply get a parking pass . In terms of perks that do not have a monetary value , this varies widely by department . Tenured faculty often get to be chair of the department ( which may or may not be a perk ) . Departments may also give tenured faculty priority in terms of teaching schedule , departmental and university service requirements , office space , and lab space . The sabbatical system , internal funding , and administrative support may be skewed in their favor also .
I went to graduate school in mathematics at a university with a TA union . I think the main effect was to level off graduate student compensation across disciplines -- so , the union was apparently a great boon to those in the humanities , but I heard that compensation for math TA 's would likely be higher if not for the union . Another benefit to the union was that it instilled ( for many ) a sense of camaraderie and common cause . Union events were fun , and they served beer . It was a good way to get to know your fellow graduate students . The main disadvantage was that dues had to be paid , around $ 200 a year ( most of which went straight to the AFT ) . This is not a lot , but on our salary it did mean something . Dues were mandatory , even if you opted out of the union -- although state politicians have since seen to it that this is no longer true . Another potential disadvantage is that union dues went ( in part ) to political contributions to union-friendly politicians . I did n't mind , but this tended to alienate graduate students who were more politically conservative than me . There was occasional heated rhetoric when I was there , and even more after I left , but overall the union did n't seem to do much good or harm . Mostly , I remember the beer .
When I have a manuscript nearly ready to submit , I send it ( by e-mail ) to colleagues who I think would be interested in it . I politely ask them to read it and send me any comments they have . Sometimes they do , and sometimes they do n't ; it 's understood that there is not an obligation . Of course , some of them send me their manuscripts too , and they 're more likely to read mine if I have read and commented on theirs . The colleagues I send the paper to ( usually about 2-4 in number ) may include : Senior people who have mentored me Past coauthors and collaborators People I do n't know but whose work is essential to that in my manuscript People in the first two categories are usually willing to assist based on our existing relationship ; those in the last category are generally pleased to see their work being cited and built on . I do n't usually need very specific feedback at this point in the process . If I was concerned , say , about the correctness of some part of the work , I would have worried about that long before I wrote the article . Occasionally I may have a specific question about , e.g. , suitability of the manuscript for a particular journal . In that case , I would send the article to one of the editors of the journal or to a colleague who often publishes in that journal , and ask specifically . Any colleagues who provide substantial feedback will be acknowledged at the end of the paper . Providing this kind of feedback certainly would n't qualify one for co-authorship .
The following answer is based on my understanding of what it means to organise a symposium in a conference ( i.e. , commonly a conference session of about 60 to 120 minutes with around 3 to 8 talks all with a common theme , where the chair is the one to invite and arrange the talks and often provides a more general introduction to the talks ) . Obviously , I 'm not talking about the more mundane task of merely chairing a session , which can be as simple as you being the designated person that ensures that each talk keeps to time . You can build relationships with the other presenters in your session . If you are organising a symposium , then you will be contacting other possible presenters who you think may be attending . This often provides an excuse to connect with people you may only know through their research . For people you already know well , it can provide an excuse to catch up at the conference , which in turn can flow into research collaborations or other opportunities . You are likely to get more people to your session , and those that come may be more interested in your topic . If attendees see that your session is all about your topic , then people interested in your topic are more likely to attend . In contrast if you present an individual paper , it may get lost in a more general session . Chairing a session can help people see you as a person active in the topic . Chairing a session can be something you put down on your CV , performance review , promotion application , grant application , etc. . It 's generally not a huge thing . In many , but not all , fields , conferences are more a means to an end . In these cases journal articles and grants are more important . That said , chairing a symposium that you organised does show some academic leadership that would count for something .
end question
start question
Why have lectures in the information age ?
Inertia/tradition accounts for many things . " Doing things they way they 've always been done " [ sic ] is usually considered defensible , too . Also , people have already-existing mental models for what a lecture should be like , often including specifics about the subject matter . The fact that information is available on-line is not wildly different from the fact that information was available in universities ' libraries . Yes , a sufficiently motivated person can simply go to the internet/library and find lots of information . A potential problem is that there is too much information , that it is fundamentally chaotic ( despite our attempts to impose order or develop " search engines " ) , and fundamentally hard for a non-expert to evaluate . Even worse , a non-expert may fail to realize that they are failing to correctly evaluate information . :) Still , yes , very many classes/lectures are boring , and attendance is often easily replaced by reading the designated textbook or other sources . However , in several decades of observation , many students ( at all levels ) either prefer or have become accustomed to a kind of passivity , so that they 'd rather show up somewhere at a regularly scheduled time , see their fellow students , and have the pace and content dictated to them by even a fairly boring lecturer . In my own student days , I did not like going to classes , for the obvious sorts of reasons : for one thing , if one had read the book , a slo-mo flawed , re-recital of it seems pointless in comparison to just re-reading at one 's own speed . Second , if one found the material interesting , why stop ? Why not read ahead ? Why not look at other sources , too , for complementary viewpoints ? Why not look at related stuff ? ( This was as feasible in libraries as it is on the internet , with perhaps two added advantages : there really was not much junk in libraries , since it was filtered , and , second , the chances of serendipitous discoveries in libraries was larger than on the internet . ) Such a process inevitably makes the " canned " lectures seem crazily irrelevant . ( Also , years ago , libraries were some of the few reliably air-conditioned places ! ) But let 's ignore the problem of student passivity , and ask why/how a lecture _ could_be _ better than just reading a book or searching on the internet . Arguably , a lecture is not better if it just amounts to reading from the book , copying from it onto a blackboard , etc. . I would claim that trying to make lectures simply present text-book material is a big mis-use of the medium ! That is , systematic presentation of all the details belongs in a book or on-line , but not in a lecture . Oppositely , what could be in a lecture that could not be in a book or notes ? " Affect " , meaning intonation , gestures , facial expressions , theatrical effects , and so on , are hard to put into writing , but ( by " lecturers " capable of it ) can be put into a lecture . This includes reaction to facial expressions and body language of the audience/students , and conversational interaction if the group is n't too large . For example , lectures can include " pep talks " that would be hard to fit into writing . " Reassurance " can be done live better than in writing , I think . Another feature is the " live/real-time " aspect : a lecturer ( in mathematics , my field , for example ) can literally do things in the lecture room , live , in real time , with voice-over narrative , in effect . That is , the audience can witness the genuine activity as exercised by an expert practitioner , with accompanying critical and methodological comments . Yes , up to a point , textbooks and monographs could be written in such a fashion , but it seems that stylistic pressures move them in the opposite direction , aiming for a sort of artificial perfection that can only be achieved by much editing ! Too often it seems that writing aims to create impressive edifices rather than be accessible , helpful ... and a live lecturer can easily do better , if they try . So , for my own lecturing , I definitely do think in terms of " adding value " beyond what students could derive from written sources , and in terms of using the medium in ways that distinguish it from static written sources ( and not having a lecture be a bad re-copying of those written sources ) .
Citations that do not appear in the main article should not appear in the bibliography section of the main article . Instead , you should create a separate references list in the supporting information , and use a separate numbering scheme . Usually you can use the same numbering scheme as in the main article ; it will be clear that references apply to the supporting information , rather than the main article . ( You could add a footnote to that effect if you want to make this clear , since supporting information is usually handled " as is " by the publisher . )
First I would check if the school has a formal procedure for auditing . For example , my school wants auditors to pay as if they were attending the class , and they also have insurance concerns if , e.g. , a student is hurt in a chem lab and it turns out that they were n't enrolled . You can get this info from the school 's web site or catalog . If that 's not an issue , then I would just send a brief email and ask permission . There are unlikely to be any objections , but it would be polite to ask . Some conceivable problems : There might be a shortage of seating . In certain subjects ( e.g. , languages ) or in classes using certain teaching methods , it might be expected that students will participate actively . The quality of the discussion or activities might be worse if there is an auditor who is n't taking the course seriously . The professor might want to talk to you for your benefit to see if you have enough of a background to get anything out of the class . Personally it does n't bother me if an auditor 's attendance is irregular .
With the hopefully obvious caveat that I 'm not a lawyer and this is not legal advice : at least in the US , this is probably fine . Copyright law ( <URL> ) applies to " original works of authorship , " not to ideas , and I think everyone would agree the metadata of an article 's publication ( including journal name , author , and date ) fall in the latter category , not the former . Otherwise the whole system of academic citation would be untenable ! The title and abstract , on the other hand , are content created by the articles ' authors and are protected by copyright law , but I think it 's quite likely that fair use ( <URL> ) protects you from being held liable for using them in the manner you describe . With reference to the four conditions to be considered when determining fair use : ( 1 ) the purpose and character of the use , including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes ; You say it 's a free , noncommercial endeavor , so that works in your favor ( 2 ) the nature of the copyrighted work ; It 's an academic article ; the whole purpose of its existence is to be widely disseminated ( 3 ) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole The title and abstract are a small part of the work ( 4 ) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work Using the title and abstract in a database like this will more likely increase the market for the original paper than decrease it ( which is in fact the entire point of having an abstract ) In fact , you would hardly be the first person to do something like this . In high energy physics , <URL> already aggregates abstracts and metadata from nearly all published papers .
If the result reads like a newspaper , I would say , no , it 's not alright . If it reads like <URL> , then you are probably doing something right . Unless you are an exceptional writer , my advice is to follow the accepted conventions of your field , which probably includes block paragraphs . A longer paragraph allows one to build up an idea and explore it more thoroughly . The first sentence introduces the idea . Subsequent sentences explore it in more detail . There should be a logical connection between sentences , and sentences should ideally vary in length . Developing good style is matter of practice and reflection . And there is more to good style than the length of a paragraph .
This is a historical anachronism . The fonts are chosen for the print version of the journal . For a print version , if you use a smaller font , you can squeeze more text onto the same page and print the same paper on fewer pages -- which saves money . So , for print publications , the small font size arguably makes sense . However , today print is less important and the digital format is more important , but journal requirements have n't caught up to this fact . For instance , in computer science , the ACM is a notorious offender : they require papers to use 9pt fonts , which are very small .
Since you invariably falls asleep during lectures , and not when you are doing any other actively engaging/interacting work , I presumed you are not overtired , or lacking of sleep . Most likely you lack interaction . Whenever you talk to someone , you will not fall asleep . So when the lecturer are talking , it is very often I take down notes . And there are two kinds of notes - just like different ways of talking to the lecturer . If I already understood what he said : you can often see me dropping down QUESTIONS which I want elaborate further - likely to be on my own , or with hime/someone else . If he covered some topics / area which I am not familiar , I will try to understand at a high level ( if I were to zoom in understanding every word he said - it is not fruitful ) , and perhaps summarized as one word or two what he said - which I will explore further after the lectures . Through these two types of notes , often it can sometimes be overwhelming as I try to concentrate listening + writing at the same time - strike a balance for yourself . Another way ? In the past I used to use my handphone , mp3 recorder etc to record the lecturer teaching , but that required you to seat in front . SITTING IN FRONT does help too - as I find myself more likely to interact ( with lecturers ) through asking questions . My past lecturer also encourage questioning - intelligently posed , which will score points . And so all of us are encouraged to engage in actively making remarks , asking questions to further our understanding . Once in a while some chocolate bars are offered for the highest numbers of questions asked , or best questions posed ( some times very subjective , so difficult to judge ) . Update : I used to have lectures at 2.00 pm too , and that is after lunch hours . As I invariably will fall asleep after a heavy meal , I did TWO things : I jogged at 12 noon under the sun in the stadium , or you can go swimming . All these is to build up the short period of alertness after exercising . Since you do n't eat before exercising , that 's good . And after exercising , have a small meal - 80 % full usually will mean sleepiness after a short while , but 30 % to 50 % full usually I can stay awake for at least 4 or 5 hours . Many times I can skip lunch altogether , just to make sure I stay awake throughout the entire lectures . Another new way for the electronic geek : Recently , since I had a new Nexus 7 7 " tablet with me , I found it extremely useful . I was listening to a lot of different talks ( in a Conference ) , and many times the technically advanced speaker will mumble something which I do n't understand or know of . Instead of writing down some keywords to be explored later , I entered into Google the keywords , out came the many search results as answer INSTANTLY . It helped me to understand IMMEDIATELY the outline ideas , but more important - I just enter " star " button and this search results is remembered as a favorited page . The list of the favorited pages exported out as HTML can be easily imported anywhere to be explored further just by clicking .
I might be able to help answer this from a background in Psychometrics . Where I work we produce many tests that are all standardised and then equated to be put onto the same scale . These scales however , from one test to another , are unrelateble , unless of course the two differing tests have an equating study completed to determine the shift factor to transfer a scale from say Test 1 to the scale of Test 2 . To construct a scale , we first analyse the test data , so student response data and item ( question ) data . We do the analysis using the Rasch Model , which only takes into account two variables , the students ' abilities and the items ' difficulties . This allows us to construct a dataset that contains the logit levels of the students ' abilities and of the items ' difficulties . Definition of Logit : A logit is a unit of measurement to report relative differences between candidate ability estimates and item difficulties . Logits are an equal interval level of measurement , which means that the distance between each point on the scale is equal ( 1-2 = 99-100 ) . Once the logit tables have been created they can be used to create a scale by applying a simple linear transformation , such as : scale score = 10 * logit difficulty + 250 In some of the work I do we have scale scores that actually are below 0 , however most of the work I do , scale scores are constructed such that the minimum is around 200 or so . The construction of the scale is for the most part entirely arbitrary . If you wish to see how the logits of students and items are calculated please read : <URL> Also as an extra note : There are other models for doing test analysis , such as the 2PL ( Introduces an additional parameter to Rasch Model ( 1PL ) , the items discrimination ) , the 3PL ( Introduces an additional parameter to the 2PL , which is a guess factor , this creates a minimum probability of getting the item incorrect which depends on your guess value ) , there is also a 4PL which adds an additional parameter ( the slip paremeter , that creates a ceiling probability , that is not 1 , for getting an item correct ) . I hope this helps and provides some extra information that may be of use .
In Germany , professorships and doctorates are considered to be " legal " titles , and have special status not accorded to other degrees and professions . In particular , university professors in Germany are Beamter ( appointed civil servants ) , which places them in a relatively small class of government employees . It is to be noted that a professor in a German university can be called " Herr Professor " or " Frau Professor " only so long as he or she is actively working as a professor ; following retirement or leaving the university profession , it is technically not permitted to use the title . Thus , in this sense , the appellation " Professor " is legally part of someone 's name , and should therefore be used in formal greetings and salutations . ( This can sometimes be annoying -- for example , in a physician 's waiting room , you can hear them call for " Frau Professor Schmidt ! " )
I have half french kids and I have spent a lot of my life in France and in the Midwest . The answer is easy - culture . Americans love recognizing everything . Participation awards , so many awards that anyone that is pretty good at something will surely get one . My 4th grader at the time got a ribbon for 4th place in a race and his French grandmother said , " Why ? " She did n't even understand it . In France if you win something you are really at the top of your game and its a big deal . They generally do n't placate to keeping self-esteem high , even with children . Things are more regulated , committees generally mean something and there is n't a lot of duplication . Now I see this slowly changing in France over the years and it becoming more westernized . Your answer is just , different culture . England is a bit the same as America except they seem to have accreditation companies and societies that also allow you to " pay " for an award .
Largely , it is cultural . So far as I understand it , the idea is that " your record should speak for itself . " Of course , you are selling yourself to a degree , by how you choose to put which pieces forward , whether to choose a " selected " versus a " completist " format , etc. . The range of acceptable variation , however , is much narrower than for a job resume , and the format is built around showing credibility ( in the form of accomplishments ) rather than enthusiasm and fit with business goals ( which is the goal of a resume ) .
Generally speaking , every statement in a published mathematics paper needs to have a proof somewhere that the reader can find it . ( If this paper is for a class assignment rather than for publication , ask your instructor . The rules are also a little different for " expository " papers which are mainly intended to discuss previous work , rather than to present new results . ) If you use a result that is well known , you can mention it by name . It is not necessary to include a formal statement or proof , nor a reference . This would apply to results that are found in most standard textbooks in your area , and that most people reading the paper would be familiar with . If you use a result previously proved by someone else , give a reference to the paper containing their proof . It is often also helpful to give a formal statement of their theorem . You do not need to include the proof in your paper unless you think it will be specifically helpful to the reader ( for instance , if you are planning to extend the same ideas yourself ) . For an original theorem , not previously proved by anyone else , give a complete and careful proof .
The first question is a relatively simple problem . Researchers have the utility of : some research being published in some rated venue : which will award them points according to some criteria . some research being cited , which will award also points according to some other criteria . some research being purchased : which will award some sweet additional income . some research being read : which does n't award any points per se , but helps to create some buzz around it , get cites , funding , etc. . This requires the research to be published before . " making a meaningful contribution to science/knowledge/understanding " . Look at the last bullet point , the rewards come from the inside of the researchers in that case , no raise , no money , no external reward . This means that if people focus on that too much they may not make any progress in their careers and they may actually fail in the search for funding or even a job . Therefore , successful people will have a strong interest/utility on the other points , the last one may or may not be important for them , but definitively secondary . They may say it 's the primary goal , but they wo n't act like that , or they will fail . I 'm an introvert and this sucks , but that is how the system is , it 's mathematical . The points and external rewards are very important . They may be important to finish a MSc or a PhD , to get a post-doc position , a job in industry , a tenured position , a raise , a project , funding , etc. . But we are not done yet . They do also have resources to get some attention : social networks ( twitter , linkedIn , etc. ) blogs conferences journals books etc. . Do you remember the last point ? , blogs seem to be perfectly suitable to making this kind of contribution , but they are not peer reviewed and they do n't award any points , therefore , they are used like twitter . Get buzz , get attention , then link the paper so that people can read it . You can even summarize the paper in the blog so that people can cite it without actually reading it , which is wrong on so many levels that actually some of them cancel each other and happens to be right in some levels , at least IMHO . Finally have some pieces of research that they can split like salami or maybe put together as a compilation to create a book , or they can even try to split , publish in conferences , then put together as a journal , then join with even more stuff and write a book . So basically in the end researchers try to publish the research using the resources available trying to maximize the utility of their research , effort , time , publications , etc. . Those who do it right ( not focusing on the last point of the utility ) get to do more and more research , and so the academia system works , and so it is driven . Basically this is a problem of cybernetics . This is an emergent information system that is mostly driven in that way , with those dynamics and that convergence . Maybe we would have a better system if it was explicitly engineered and not emergent , but as usual , the ones that have the most power to change it are the ones that are most favored by the current system . There is always some strength in the stability of the status quo . About the second question , the answer for me is " no " . I guess that 's why I 'm here writing with a pseudonym .
There are several reasons in the US . Most faculty are paid for 9 months of the year not 12 . They may choose to spread out their pay into 12 payments a year , but their base salary is for 9 months . Grant funding is one way to supplement their pay up to a full 12 months . Unfortunately , the National Science Foundation , which funds a lot of academic research in the US , only allows a maximum of 2 months to come from NSF , so professors must diversify somehow as well . Additionally , some faculty may choose to buy out some of their required teaching . Many departments will allow you to teach less if you can bring in even more of your salary . Sometimes this is done with grant funding , but I think more often it is done using endowed chairs .
If you make enough use of them , it 's cheaper and more efficient to use in-house services . That 's why most universities will also have a mechanical workshop , to make one-off items mostly for the physics and engineering departments . Everything is streamlined : the glassblower is an employee , not a business owner . He can spend more of his time on his products , thus his services are cheaper . The University will also make some profit from selling their services . It makes things easier for the academic staff , and there 's less bother with accounts or purchase orders . For routine jobs ( if these things are n't outsourced ) , just visit the workshop and ask for another 1L boiling flask . The academic staff know that he will always do a good job : a low turn-over rate means the glassblower ( s ) develop a strong rapport with their frequent customers , and have a good understanding of their needs . If more jobs are outsourced , this personal touch can be easily lost . Of course , it <URL> that ordinary items are usually outsourced -- a big factory is more cost effective . It 's for the one-off custom items that it still makes a lot of sense to keep things in-house .
This question seems to be based on a misconception , namely that professors start companies substantially less frequently than they could or should . The vast majority of professors , even in fairly applied areas like computer science ( compared with literature , say ) , are simply not in a position to start companies based on their research . You need a viable business plan , and they do n't grow on trees . Specifically , even really profound research with many practical applications usually just does n't have obvious commercial potential as a stand-alone business , since it wo n't be clear how to monetize it . Of course , there are exceptions , and plenty of important businesses were started by faculty , but only a small fraction of professors could do this successfully . Here 's another way of looking at it . There 's no reason why a business based on a professor 's research needs to be founded by the professor . If you see someone with great ideas , you can buy the rights to the ideas and found your own company . If professors were missing a lot of wonderful opportunities to found companies , then you 'd expect entrepreneurs to step in and do it , but that does n't happen very often either . Ultimately , this is why we have academic research . The stuff that leads to obvious business plans could easily be funded by industry . By contrast , one of the reasons why academia includes research is to make sure work that ca n't easily be sold does n't get neglected .
Inertia/tradition accounts for many things . " Doing things they way they 've always been done " [ sic ] is usually considered defensible , too . Also , people have already-existing mental models for what a lecture should be like , often including specifics about the subject matter . The fact that information is available on-line is not wildly different from the fact that information was available in universities ' libraries . Yes , a sufficiently motivated person can simply go to the internet/library and find lots of information . A potential problem is that there is too much information , that it is fundamentally chaotic ( despite our attempts to impose order or develop " search engines " ) , and fundamentally hard for a non-expert to evaluate . Even worse , a non-expert may fail to realize that they are failing to correctly evaluate information . :) Still , yes , very many classes/lectures are boring , and attendance is often easily replaced by reading the designated textbook or other sources . However , in several decades of observation , many students ( at all levels ) either prefer or have become accustomed to a kind of passivity , so that they 'd rather show up somewhere at a regularly scheduled time , see their fellow students , and have the pace and content dictated to them by even a fairly boring lecturer . In my own student days , I did not like going to classes , for the obvious sorts of reasons : for one thing , if one had read the book , a slo-mo flawed , re-recital of it seems pointless in comparison to just re-reading at one 's own speed . Second , if one found the material interesting , why stop ? Why not read ahead ? Why not look at other sources , too , for complementary viewpoints ? Why not look at related stuff ? ( This was as feasible in libraries as it is on the internet , with perhaps two added advantages : there really was not much junk in libraries , since it was filtered , and , second , the chances of serendipitous discoveries in libraries was larger than on the internet . ) Such a process inevitably makes the " canned " lectures seem crazily irrelevant . ( Also , years ago , libraries were some of the few reliably air-conditioned places ! ) But let 's ignore the problem of student passivity , and ask why/how a lecture _ could_be _ better than just reading a book or searching on the internet . Arguably , a lecture is not better if it just amounts to reading from the book , copying from it onto a blackboard , etc. . I would claim that trying to make lectures simply present text-book material is a big mis-use of the medium ! That is , systematic presentation of all the details belongs in a book or on-line , but not in a lecture . Oppositely , what could be in a lecture that could not be in a book or notes ? " Affect " , meaning intonation , gestures , facial expressions , theatrical effects , and so on , are hard to put into writing , but ( by " lecturers " capable of it ) can be put into a lecture . This includes reaction to facial expressions and body language of the audience/students , and conversational interaction if the group is n't too large . For example , lectures can include " pep talks " that would be hard to fit into writing . " Reassurance " can be done live better than in writing , I think . Another feature is the " live/real-time " aspect : a lecturer ( in mathematics , my field , for example ) can literally do things in the lecture room , live , in real time , with voice-over narrative , in effect . That is , the audience can witness the genuine activity as exercised by an expert practitioner , with accompanying critical and methodological comments . Yes , up to a point , textbooks and monographs could be written in such a fashion , but it seems that stylistic pressures move them in the opposite direction , aiming for a sort of artificial perfection that can only be achieved by much editing ! Too often it seems that writing aims to create impressive edifices rather than be accessible , helpful ... and a live lecturer can easily do better , if they try . So , for my own lecturing , I definitely do think in terms of " adding value " beyond what students could derive from written sources , and in terms of using the medium in ways that distinguish it from static written sources ( and not having a lecture be a bad re-copying of those written sources ) .
I have been part of several hiring committees in a New Zealand university and : We are instructed to never ask about a candidate 's family situation , religion , sexual orientation , etc. . Personally , I do not want to know about your family situation to avoid any perceived bias in the hiring process . Any mention of the situation on your part ( like ' we are a bundle ' ) could be perceived as making the hiring more complicated . Unless your application is miles ahead of the rest ( unlikely ) why would a committee want the extra complication ? The only situation where I could see an advantage is when you family situation would suggest higher chances of success . For example , you are applying to a job in the middle of nowhere ( and potentially candidates would feel isolated ) and your family happens to be from there . I would wait to say ' we are a bundle ' ( if that 's what you have in mind ) to when you are offered the position . Ideally , you would never have to disclose your family situation until the university is willing to pay for your moving costs .
There 's a good deal of variation . Sometimes students are assigned a very specific problem ( " try to prove this conjecture " ) , sometimes given a slightly less concrete direction in a narrow range of a field , and some students do pick topics basically on their own . Some of the variation is based on the individual professor , and some on the student - many , maybe most advisors are willing to give a fair amount of leeway to an exceptionally strong student , and will push more structure on a student who seems slightly weaker ( weaker being quite relative ) . ( For example , I did my thesis in proof theory on a series of problems suggested by my advisor directly extending some of his previous work ; my academic twin did a much more independent thesis in model theory on a topic my advisor had never directly worked in . ) So the answer is that you definitely ca n't count on a set theorist , or especially a non-logician , being willing to supervise a thesis in type theory unless you 've communicated about that in advance , but it is sometimes done . Also , people do occasionally have informal advisors , or even official advisors or co-advisors at other institutions ; the logic community is small , so it is conceivable that if you get into a school with a good logic program and are really interested in a different area of logic you could nonetheless be at least partially supervised by someone at a different institution . But , again , it 's risky to count on this happening .
In general , no , journals can not arbitrarily share your submission with others -- at least not before it 's been accepted . However , they can share your submission with : Reviewers , so that the peer-review process can be completed Other staff members within the publisher , which can be useful when a paper is submitted to the " wrong " section of a journal , or to the wrong journal , but is otherwise acceptable for publication . Once the paper has been accepted and appropriate copyrights assigned , though , they can do more or less whatever they normally do in their publication and advertising process .
end question
start question
Can I add my middle initial to my author name in preceding articles ?
In the modern day of vastly intelligent computer software and important internet presence , it is highly unlikely that a missing middle initial will be the cause of " nonrecognition " of your name . As Stephan wrote , a bigger problem is name confusion ; it is definitely a good idea for you to start including your middle initial ( s ) in future publications . I 'll answer here focused more on how to make sure the names are " linked " . <URL> , which is compiled entirely by a computer ( my only contribution there was identification of duplicate entries and removing them ) , even picked up some of my undergraduate term-reports which I put on my website many years ago ( and which are now no longer available ) . Of my published papers , I 've listed at various times my name as Willie Wong W W Wong Willie W Wong Willie W-Y Wong and I do n't seem to have had much trouble * . If you want better control over the articles associated to your name , you can always register for <URL> and/or an <URL> which are both designed to help alleviate the problem of name collision and name changes throughout the career of a research scientist . For fields which encourages the use of arXiv , the <URL> also helps group all of your pre-prints , and allows you neat things like <URL> showing your recent pre-prints . For mathematics , the AMS maintains <URL> ( they recently upgraded this ! ) to which you can also submit corrections to include omitted paper or to exclude misattributed papers by other authors . ( The AMS author profiles are only accessible through a MathSciNet subscription . ) I am not that familiar with other fields , but you should look around to see if your scholarly society provides a similar service to help maintain a comprehensive publication record for authors . * With Google , at least . Microsoft Academic Search has some trouble coming up with my complete list of publications .
I 've recently come to think that one should always add an initial or two , just to reduce potential confusion . Also , doing so consistently is some push-back against the pop mythology that some people are in the special category that everyone knows who they are , and are referred-to in a different , more heroic style . ( The simplistic , so-called " Great Man " theory of history of science and everything-else makes it harder to understand what actually happened and happens ... )
You 'd need to ask the specific journal if they 're okay with it . I suspect many would be , since many other forms of quasi-publication prior to a paper are acceptable .
Why not write an email to your advisor with your concerns ? Women are not the only ones with this problem . Those fast-talkers maybe do n't even realize they are leaving you out . Here is a good book . Quiet : The Power of Introverts in a World That Ca n't Stop Talking , by Susan Cain It may help you understand your situation . But it 's those other guys who need to read it , and probably wo n't . When you get to a software company , it may get better . At least if it is large enough to have managers who are not merely former programmers who were promoted . One can hope that those with management training know about these things : The one with the loudest voice may not be the one with the best idea . And there are management practices that can make the best of all workers , whether they are fast-talkers or timid wall-flowers .
The reason for no response may be anything from what Anthony Labarre mentions to what you list . I would wait at least a month before writing off an answer ; I have received answers even later than that . It is possible they are working on improvements themselves as well . In short , if you do not get a reply , you can only try again and perhaps express your request differently . You seem to have contacted all the authors . Sometimes the project leader may be too busy to pick up on questions and the younger team members may be more inclined to answer . They may , however , want to talk it over among themselves , and it is probably not a high priority . So try again in a couple of weeks . If you do not get any response , then there is probably not much you can do . You probably need to think about what can do to improve the chances for a reply . The word " collaboration " is sometimes a good way to " sweeten the deal " . Sometimes , just to give a perspective , I get requests for data that are of the sort , give me this or that , give me everything , and I often end up asking myself , why should I ? having laboured to generate the data . I am not saying you must follow such an approach to be successful but considering why the other researchers would want to help you may also help towards solving the communication problem .
I would definitely consider including this in your CV . It 's scientific work , and you <URL> . It would make sense to put this under a separate heading , so your publication list contains " Peer-reviewed publications " and " Non-peer-reviewed publications " - this way , you do n't give the impression of trying to inflate your publication list by sneaking in some non-reviewed stuff . If at a later date you have authored multiple R ( or other ) packages and perhaps published other non-reviewed material , you could subdivide the " Non-peer-reviewed publications " by splitting off software into its own section .
Needless to say , this is not legal advice about your specific situation , and if you 're really concerned about this , you should consult a lawyer . However , here are the general rules . ( Law professor here . ) Copyright protects expression , not content . So if I read a textbook in order to learn something , and then summarize it in my own words to share that knowledge with the world , I own the copyright to the summary , the textbook author does not . Not all text is copyrightable . In particular , text that just represents information that can only be expressed one way is n't copyrightable . The classic example of this is a telephone book ( see <URL> ) . But there are academic examples that would fall in the same category . Off the top of my head , an obvious example would something like the information in a table of mathematical results ( although if the table is in a novel structure , the information as laid out in that structure might be copyrightable ) . Not all information that is copyrightable is in copyright . For example , the formulas in a math textbook for a subject that 's been around for a while may not be in copyright because whoever first wrote them in that form did so a very long time ago , and copyright is time-limited . Finally , there 's fair use . That 's a super-complicated subject , but broadly speaking , noncommercial uses of small amounts of copyrighted work tend to be ok for purposes like teaching and critique . But for that , it 's best to do lots more reading and tread carefully . <URL> .
I agree that it makes sense to set expectations as early as possible . I 'd just put Note that all XXX for this course are in English . in the syllabus . You should of course be specific as to what XXX is : Class slides Required reading Supplemental reading Lectures ( you could have slides in English but speak the local language during the actual lecture ) Quizzes Exams If quizzes/exams are in English , you should also note whether students would be expected to answer in English . Whether or not you also want to include the reasons for this is really up to how much space you have in the syllabus and whether there is n't anything more important to put there . I 'd say that a warning might be a better use for the space : If your English is not up to reading/understanding/writing technical documents , this course likely is not a good fit for you .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
No , you can not . Until the paper is publicly available you can not show it to anyone nor even acknowledge its existence . The only slight exception I would make is that if a colleague was going to pursue similar/identical research , I would tell them they might want to contact the author . I would assume that this would result in my identity as a reviewer being revealed . Your options are : Submit your manuscript as is , but add the citation as soon as it become public . Reveal your identity as a reviewer and ask the author for a preprint . Option 1 is reasonable since you believe the existence of the paper is not critical to your paper . Option 2 is okay , but remember the reviewers of you manuscript will not have easy access to the cited material .
I think there is a slight conflict of interest to the disadvantage of the applicant . You might be more negative in a reference addressed to your own employer ( to whom you may feel a duty to help as much as possible with their hiring process ) , than you would be in a reference addressed to a perfect stranger ( to whom you only owe a general duty not to defraud them ) . People recommend other people to their employers all the time , so this is something the hiring committee should be able to deal with . However , if you plan to actually say anything negative about the candidate in your reference ( " I do n't think this candidate has the experience to be interviewed for the role , let alone hired " ) , then you should make sure that the candidate fully understands the situation before choosing to use you as a reference . They might have other referees they 'd prefer to use in that case . As Kimball says in a comment , the existence of this conflict of interest is n't an ethical problem provided all parties understand it . The hiring committee knows your job and expects to take account of your relationship to the applicant when considering a reference , so no problem there . The student knows your job , so the only risk is if they do n't appreciate the implications of that . After that , if either of them thinks you 're too conflicted to use as a reference then they wo n't ask you for one , you do n't need to recuse yourself .
I do not generally see people highlighting their name in a CV in this way , and I do not think that it is necessary ( though perhaps the culture in experimental physics is different ) . In a CV , you are by definition an author of every listed paper , and papers where you are first author leap out pretty easily to the eye already -- unless you 've got lots of papers , in which case , why worry about it ? If you highlight your name , on the other hand , I think that it could come across as insecure , since it is not normally done .
In the modern day of vastly intelligent computer software and important internet presence , it is highly unlikely that a missing middle initial will be the cause of " nonrecognition " of your name . As Stephan wrote , a bigger problem is name confusion ; it is definitely a good idea for you to start including your middle initial ( s ) in future publications . I 'll answer here focused more on how to make sure the names are " linked " . <URL> , which is compiled entirely by a computer ( my only contribution there was identification of duplicate entries and removing them ) , even picked up some of my undergraduate term-reports which I put on my website many years ago ( and which are now no longer available ) . Of my published papers , I 've listed at various times my name as Willie Wong W W Wong Willie W Wong Willie W-Y Wong and I do n't seem to have had much trouble * . If you want better control over the articles associated to your name , you can always register for <URL> and/or an <URL> which are both designed to help alleviate the problem of name collision and name changes throughout the career of a research scientist . For fields which encourages the use of arXiv , the <URL> also helps group all of your pre-prints , and allows you neat things like <URL> showing your recent pre-prints . For mathematics , the AMS maintains <URL> ( they recently upgraded this ! ) to which you can also submit corrections to include omitted paper or to exclude misattributed papers by other authors . ( The AMS author profiles are only accessible through a MathSciNet subscription . ) I am not that familiar with other fields , but you should look around to see if your scholarly society provides a similar service to help maintain a comprehensive publication record for authors . * With Google , at least . Microsoft Academic Search has some trouble coming up with my complete list of publications .
I 've seen a lot of CVs include guest lecturer . You would include it in the Teaching section of your CV . A quick google for " guest lecturer cv " will show you some examples . Do note , this is generally different than an invited speaker though . A Guest Lecturer comes and teaches a class where as an Invited Speaker comes to give a talk or seminar or colloquium . If this is an invited talk then you 'd still list it on your CV , but in the Invited Talks section .
There is some possibility of this , but it would work only in certain restricted ways and in certain limited contexts . I do n't know of any reputable college or university that , when considering applicants for a position that already exists , consider an applicant 's willingness to accept less than the standard salary as a point in their favor . If you think this through , probably you can see why it makes everyone look bad . You might have some luck getting an academic institution to make a position with an unusual combination of duties and salary that is tailored to you . Here are some possibilities : At some institutions , faculty couples " share " positions in some fractional way : e.g. the couple together has 1.5 positions and each does 75 % of the work of a full-time faculty member . If someone had come to me with this as a new idea I would have rejected it as ridiculous , but nevertheless it actually exists in the real world . I know several examples . Similarly , you may be able to arrange a single position which is " part time " in some specified way : so maybe it is a visiting teaching position with half the normal teaching load and half the normal salary . In the very short term , such positions are common . It is not directly in the spirit of what you are asking about , but the effect could be similar . Finally , if salary is really no object , it is much easier to get a visiting scholar position which pays no salary whatsoever . I did this myself once : the summer after getting my PhD ( at Harvard ) , I moved back to my hometown ( Philadelphia ) and got an apartment in University ( of Pennsylvania ) City . I noticed that there was a wonderful library and gym a few blocks away from me , and I presented myself " cold " in the UPenn math department with a copy of my CV and my PhD . I walked out as a Visiting Scholar . ( Nowadays I think that what I did was a little weird : why not first contact some specific faculty member in the department ? Maybe I did n't know who to contact , or maybe I was curious to see if walking in cold and presenting Ivy League credentials would actually work . It did ! This " position " still appears on my CV . ) If what you are interested is not covered by the above , then I would say : in general this will be hard to swing , but if you have a more specific arrangement in mind you can ask about that ( e.g. here ) and maybe it can be worked out . Let me end by saying something that I suspect you already know : if you aspire to have anything like a conventional academic career in the future , advertising yourself broadly as someone who is willing to work at a discounted rate is a pretty bad idea . If you do seek to pursue this idea of yours , I would do so with much discretion .
Who can peer-review articles ? Anyone competent enough to be asked in the first place . For conferences ( e.g. , in engineering or computer science ) , peer-review is conducted by a Programme Committee . To be invited to be part of a Programme Committee ( typically done by Chairs or Senior Programme Committee in larger conferences ) , you need to have a reasonable track record of research and a solid reputation in the area in question . I have seen PCs of reputable conferences in CS with many senior PhDs ( I was in PCs myself as a PhD student ) . For journals , you are invited to review by a member of the Editorial Board . They would weigh your experience and track-record accordingly . Again , you may get asked to review journal papers as a PhD student ( I was also asked to review various journal papers as a PhD student ) . Last but not least , you may be delegated a peer-review by someone who was asked to do a review ( where that person was asked by the EB of a journal or as part of a PC for a conference ) . In that case , however , the responsibility for the quality of the review lies squarely with the delegator . In this case , a junior PhD student might be given a peer-review but with the idea that the delegator will check over it and discuss before submitting . ( This is a good way to learn the process of peer-reviewing . ) I was unable to find any information online about this . I asked a colleague who told me that there are no restrictions on who may review an article , although he thought it was very unlikely that an un-published person may be asked to review . I agree with your colleague . The delegation of peer-review is left to the judgement of the EB/PC/Chairs . They will take into account seniority and research track record in their judgement . Formal restrictions would only serve to rule out qualified reviewers from an often already too narrow field . I am submitting an engineering research paper in the near future and the submission process requires that I suggest at least three reviewers . One of the reviewers I would like to suggest has not yet completed their PhD , although they have three publications that are closely related to mine . I know that it will be up to the editor to decide whether to contact this person , but it made me wonder if there are any specific criteria that reviewers have to meet . I suggest submitting the name of the supervisor of the PhD student you think would be a good reviewer . The supervisor offers the editor a more senior name , should be knowledgeable in the area and if not , can solicit the advice of the PhD student in question or delegate the review entirely if appropriate . As per my comment ( and as a side note since it is not directly asked about ) I find the practice of suggesting reviewers for your own paper a little strange ( though I have seen it before on occasion ) . First there 's the obvious possibility of selecting one 's friends or of prior deal-making ( assuming the suggestions were taken into account ... otherwise why would they ask ? ) . Aside from that , if I 'm submitting to a journal in my area , I expect the editorial board to have some members that would be sufficiently knowledgeable about my topic to get the paper in good hands . Having to suggest reviewers calls into question ( slightly ) the competence of the EB and/or the relevance of the journal . In any case , if the journal is otherwise reputable , this should not hold you back from submitting .
If the slides you 're using are going to have " independent life , " -- in other words , if you 're going to make them available separately from the conference paper ( on your website , for instance ) , then the citations should be included as part of the presentation . I would follow posdef 's example and place the citations on the same slide as where it 's needed ; this will save the reader from having to flip back and forth between different parts of the presentation or between the presentation and the paper . Not including the citations is a bad idea , because it means you are potentially failing to give people the credit they deserve for ideas that were originally theirs . Even though it 's " just " a conference presentation does n't mean that the rules of crediting people for their work should be ignored . ( Citing the work of others is also the right thing to do from the perspective of " playing nice with others . " Taking credit for other people 's work can make them leerier of working with you . )
The short answer is that you can indeed put properly cited , sourced , attributed background material in a background section . Because what is the background section for other than for you to present what people have done before you ? You obviously need to include enough of your own work in this document . However if a relevant derivation has been done before you cite it , possibly review it for the ease of the reader or completeness of your own expository structure and get on to the stuff you have done .
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
DBLP has two FAQ entries that roughly correspond to your question : Correcting inaccurate entries : <URL> Updating information ( new entries ) : <URL> The latter also describes how their indexing process works in general , which indirectely explains why it wo n't be possible to synchronize your Scholar profile with DBLP automatically , In essence , they consider a much more restricted set of sources than Google does .
end question
start question
During an application/interview should an applicant justify leaving a current faculty position ( pre-tenure ) ?
It 's not uncommon for people to move because of two-body issues , and if you 're not comfortable disclosing the specific reasons , one possibility is to mention ( at interview time ) that you have non-academic constraints that force your departure from a place that you like . Having said that , you 're not going to get an interview call unless you 're a superstar and everyone wants you OR you have some positive argument for why you 're interested in a particular university . So in your cover letter you 'll at least need to provide some positive reasons .
I think the best people to ask would be those who have asked you for this requirement on your job application . There may be a contact in HR or similar you can speak to who can answer any questions you may have , or there may be an online guide on their website for prospective applicants . If these do n't offer any clarification I would suggest not contacting the people you name on your application , just like when recommending reviewers of papers , as this is more or less the sort of role they would be performing .
Chaired positions are generally endowed , in that the money provided for the salary , and some other benefits ( e.g. , a dedicated assistant ) or increased research funds comes from the interest on principal donated by the person or people the chair is named after , which is part of the school 's overall endowment ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Being named to a chair is a prestigious award , and in many cases it is a lifetime ( or at least , until retirement ) position . Some chaired positions are given on a rotating basis ( e.g. , for five years ) , but nonetheless it is prestigious to be named to an endowed chair . While it is not strictly true that professors in chaired positions are paid more ( because in most cases pay is negotiable ) , because universities use a combination of pay and incentives such as an endowed chair to lure highly sought-after candidates , the pay is probably on average higher than the average non-chaired full professor would have at the same institution and department . Finally , some schools use chairs at the university level ( versus the departmental or school level ) that they dole out throughout the university . The positions can therefore be used as an enabler for some departments with less money to attract particularly important faculty members that they might not have had an opportunity to attract otherwise . For a specific example of the policy for endowed chairs at one university ( Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ) , see <URL> .
Absolutely , with no qualifications , approach the researcher and ask what it would take to do research in his/her lab . As a first-year undergraduate student , it 's very likely that you do n't have the knowledge to contribute to the projects . So approach humbly , asking what you can do to prepare yourself . Ask for suggestions for a review paper or a few research reports that would bring you up to speed . Ask if you can attend lab meetings as a fly-on-the-wall to absorb the controversies and decisions being made day-by-day . The very worst possible case is that you 're told , " no . " If so , you 're already there . Next worst is that you invest your time and get only an education out of it . That 's not so bad . You 'll be positioned very very well for next year . Good luck !
There are of course no laws against it but as Editor-in-Chief ( EiC ) myself I would never do ( or at least think twice about doing ) it , particularly not as first author . My reasoning behind this is that it could reflect badly on both me but particularly the journal and send signals that all is not necessarily well . I have to point out that in my case we are two and we have an agreement that we do not touch manuscripts from our own spheres of influence ( basically departments ) . Nevertheless , what actually happens within a journal and how people perceive it are two different things and it is my opinion that as EiC one must safeguard the journals reputation as objective . So if the community expresses some form of trust in the editor to publishing in their own journal this could be perfectly fine . So when an EiC publishes in " their " journal it is not wrong but potentially " dangerous " and can be perceived as poor judgement . They would jeoparize the journals reputation . So even if thetre is no legal problems there are ethical problems . I doubt anyone would have second thoughts about the quality of a journal if the editor does not publish there , after all if the editor has a solid reputation , associating with a bad journal would jeopardize that . Can I see any exceptions ? Well , co-authorship may be less serious but in the end even that should be avoided . I also think that if an editor publishes a single paper in a thematic issue of the journal ( where someone else has suggested a theme ) and this is the only paper by that editor in the journal for years , I would not think much about it . Obviously frequency of publications is also a factor . So , in conclusion , I consider it unwise under most circumstances .
Since we 're talking about the humanities , let me answer with a Simpsons quote : Ned Flanders : I do n't understand . Is God punishing me ? Reverend Lovejoy : Short answer , " yes " with an " if " ; long answer , " no , " with a " but " I believe that academic CVs should be tailored to the requirements of the situation . If you 're applying for a faculty position in the Department of Film and Media Studies , a Kickstarter campaign in which you raised money for an independent movie is appropriate . Otherwise , adding this information is about as useful as saying that you like pina coladas and getting caught in the rain . PS . If you were <URL> , I 'd hire you right away if I was head of Social Psychology or Cultural Studies . PPS . Thank god , I 'm not head of an academic department .
You may not have a choice . If I were A and you were to tell me you had an offer from another school , I would immediately ask the name of the school B. Your refusing to tell me B 's name may raise some red flags for me ( indicating a level of shiftiness about your candidacy that I may not have been aware of ) . I can not think of a good reason why you would n't tell me -- other than B is so far below my institution 's rank that it 'd be laughable ( aka , A = MIT and B = Poconos Community College ) . However , if B = CalTech and A = MIT , then I would very much make sure that we were processing your application with all due haste . With the new details that A = preferred for personal reasons but B = higher ranked , then certainly you can tell A that you have an offer from B . It would likely lead to increased interest in your candidacy if A is at least somewhere the same ballpark as B . That is , if A were Poconos Comm College and B were CalTech , then A may feel that there is no possibility of getting you and drop you even before an offer for being overqualified . You need to emphasize why you are so interested in A. Note that lying is a bad idea . If we phoned our colleague at CalTech and they had no idea who you were , you 'd be immediately dropped .
This really can be a two-edged sword . Pros : You are likely to really come and stay since your spouse is there . You can argue that you know much ( positive ) about the place through your spouse which has made you select the place . Cons : You may be seen as applying because your spouse is there and not because you think the place is exactly where you want to go and be . In other words , you make a choice out of practical and not academic reasons . ( largely what you already stated ) So , first of all , it is no-ones business why you apply to go to a certain place . Of course the people who read your application will evaluate your interest and so anything that strengthens the application is good anything that does n't can be left out . Although the location of one 's spouse should not be grounds for admitting ( or not ) a person , it is possible people read things into the fact that you did not originally anticipate . If you want to state that you already know the place is good , you may do so by demoting your spouse to a friend . I have to confess I am not at all happy about writing this which seems so negative towards mentioning your relationship but it stems from knowing that you can not predict how people interpret things and it is therefore better to be neutral and focus on the academic rather than putting up personal reasons for a choice .
Assuming that you submitted your application to the human resources office of the university , then it would be appropriate to check with them to make sure that the application was received and was considered to be complete . I would not send a query to faculty members of the search committee ( if you could even figure out which faculty were on the search committee . )
( 1 ) For the cover letter , should it end by saying something , In my experience ( ~ 10 years on hiring committees , starting my second year as hiring committee chair ) , almost nobody will read your cover letter . If you have something to say about your research , say it in your research statement . If you have something to say about your teaching , say it in your teaching statement . If you have something to say about your personal life , do n't . If the department does n't acknowledge receipt ( typically by email ) , it 's reasonable to call or email the department to double-check . But " waiting for your call " is unreasonably optimistic . Each department you 're applying to probably gets hundreds of applications for each faculty position . ( 2 ) Should the cover letter contain qualifications and skills like highly-motivated , fast learner etc ? Absolutely not ! " Motivated " and " fast learner " are neither skills nor qualifications ; they 're useless boilerplate . Of course you 're motivated and a fast learner ; otherwise , you would n't have a PhD and a publication record consistent with a tenure-track faculty position . Your actual skills and qualifications should be apparent from your CV , your research and teaching statements , and your recommendation letters . ( 3 ) Some recommends to mention potential drs from the department that the applicant can work with . Is this a good idea ? If Dr. A is working on topic T , and I want to work on topic T , then should I say that I would like to collaborate with Dr. A ? If yes , what is a good way to say it ?! Do n't just say it ; make a convincing case . Just dropping a few names into your research statement will be written off immediately as meaningless boilerplate . If your research goals really do converge with Dr. A 's research interests , that should be obvious from your larger research narrative , and it should be easy for you to draw specific , technical , and credible connections between your interests and Dr. A 's . Do not fake it . We can tell . ( 4 ) For the research statement , should I use " I " or " we " for joint papers , assuming that I was the first author ? " We " or " my coauthors and I " ; using " I " for joint work is dishonest . But this is a relatively minor issue .
You do n't need to include any of the proposed titles in your presentation . They all come across as stilted and affected , and are entirely unnecessary . Instead , if this is a public presentation , treat it as you would any other such presentation : indicate the title of your talk as you normally would have it , and so on . If this is the " private " presentation to the faculty , then you should give it a title representing your current and future research interests . You do n't need to say " what " the presentation is for -- again , the location of the talk should be sufficient .
It 's important to remember that you 're negotiating a package , not a salary . In other words , there is a set of things you 're negotiating for , and you can play games in that space to get most of what you need . Limiting yourself to salary negotiation is tricky because salaries are often the most constrained part of the package ( especially in public universities in the US ) , and the one the chair/dean has the least power to change . So remember that your success at the job depends on your ability to recruit students , procure resources and bootstrap your research program . Which means you need startup money to pay students , lab space and equipment money as needed , teaching relief if that helps you focus on research , and so on . Throw these all into the mix when you negotiate , so that if you give up something along one dimension , you can try to parlay that into a gain along a different dimension . Also understand who you 're really negotiating with , and what powers they really have to offer you things . This can be found out by talking with your supporters at the department ( you must have some , otherwise you would n't have an offer ) and also folks at other institutions .
In short , tenure means that you can not be fired ( you have a very permanent position ) . For more details , look at this question : <URL> In particular , look at the first link in the <URL> to that question , which is an article in Science that talks about the role of tenure .
Becoming overweight is not an issue per se . Major physical changes , however , are often a sign of an major ongoing mental or physical health event . Rapid weight gain , for example , is often associated with depression or thyroid problems , both of which can have a major impact on the student 's ability to learn and work . As such , I would definitely be concerned if a student was visibly gaining a large amount of weight -- not because of attractiveness or disapproval of weight , but because of what else it might indicate . I would find it highly inappropriate , however , to bring this up with the student by saying something like " I 've noticed you 've gained a lot of weight " because there are also a lot of more benign reasons somebody might gain weight , including recovering from mental or physical health problems that would also be none of my business . I would , however , notice it as a possible red flag , and start to keep a more careful eye out for other signs of distress , which might legitimately trigger a conversation about , for example , mental health .
There is no requirement to disclose and given the current climate around mental health , I would not suggest disclosing . I would say that you had health problems that resulted in your having to leave your former school , but that these issues are under control and you are confident you will succeed at your new program . I would be sure you tell your letter writers to also use the vague rubric of " health problems " as some may inadvertently disclose without thinking about how you want to be framed .
Allow me to strongly disagree with eykanal 's answer . There is no universal standard . You must ask your advisor in advance what her coauthorship policy is . In theoretical computer science ( and mathematics ) , it is generally considered unethical to list someone as a co-author who has not made a novel and significant intellectual contribution to the paper . In particular , merely funding the research is not considered an intellectual contribution . Adding a supervisor 's name to a paper to which they have not directly , intellectually contributed is lying . In practice , writing a good grant proposal requires at least as much intellectual novelty as writing a good paper . Most of the good ideas that PIs pour into their proposals also appear in papers ; as long as those ideas constitute novel intellectual contributions , the PI merits co-authorship . But that only works once per idea ; once an idea has been published , it 's no longer novel , by definition . To be specific and personal : I am not a coauthor on all of my PhD students ' papers . ( Of course , I still report my students ' independent work back to NSF as outcomes on whatever grants supported them . So I still get credit from NSF for having the foresight to fund the student . ) The same is true of all the other theoretical computer science faculty in my department . My PhD advisor is a co-author on only one of the papers I published as a PhD student . My PhD advisor does n't have a single co-authored paper with his advisor .
I ca n't speak for disciplines other than philosophy , but some of the points below may translate to other fields . In philosophy I think that there are some departments and some philosophers who would feel that the VAP in math is very impressive , and others who will discount it completely or view it negatively . If your research area is mathematical ( e.g. philosophy of : math , logic , science , or decision theory ) , then teaching in a math department shows that you know math well enough that mathematicians are willing to hire you . That 's good : It 's a sign that you have the technical ability to do work in your area . You could also argue ( in interviews , letters of application , etc. ) that teaching math to undergraduates will help you teach mathematical philosophy to undergraduates . Those people whose research is in mathematical areas of philosophy are likely to be most impressed . But it can be bad , too : Some people on hiring committees will worry that you 're too mathematical . " Is he/she really a philosopher ? Will we be able to understand her/his research ? Have interesting philosophical conversations ? " Philosophy hiring committees often have to go through hundreds of applications . People mean well , but they 're busy , and there 's time pressure , and they sometimes end up making decisions based on trivial features or biases . Your math job can be one of those factors , either a positive one or a negative one . It may be that the math job would be most beneficial with the highest-ranked departments , but most jobs are not in those departments . I 'm not sure about the first point . If you take the math job , I recommend doing as much as you can to show that you 're a " real " philosopher through your publications and conference presentations . You can highlight both the benefits of your math job to a philosophy department , and what you 're also doing that 's purely philosophical . You should highlight these things in your application letters in way that does n't sound at all defensive ( although some people do n't read these letters ) . It might be even more valuable to have one of the people who writes a letter of recommendation -- a philosopher -- to highlight these points . ( Finally , any advice of this kind should be taken with a grain of salt . Or a whole shaker . No one really knows . )
I 'm giving this answer from the point of view of philosophy , in the USA . I 'd say that you should include a teaching statement in the packet , unless you are specifically directed to include only the materials they explicitly ask for . Do n't bother with a research statement or some of the other junk that comes in a tenure-track packet . But this is a teaching job , and if I 'm reading the above correctly , you do n't have any experience as the instructor of record . So , what I would try to do is to write a short ( 1 page ) statement that shows a committee looking at your packet that you are ready to walk into your own classroom and do your thing . It is really hard to write a good teaching statement . It 's going to be even harder without a lot of first-hand experience . Fortunately , there 's no end of advice out there on the web . For example , <URL> and <URL> are both helpful .
The most important point is that jobs vary significantly by discipline . If you are in the field of Cognitive Science , or in a related field , you are in a better position to know what a job ad in that area is actually looking for . Unfortunately , the job ad linked in the question is written in a way to make it hard for those outside the area to know what it wants - it does not directly say whether they are looking for research or teaching . There is no way to tell without asking what the teaching/research ratio would be . In general , there are two common uses of non-tenure-track " Assistant Professor " positions in the U.S. : Postdoctoral positions . These are not usually considered " harmful " to your career . In many fields they are a standard part of the academic job progression . Teaching-oriented positions for which the candidate has a PhD . These may be full-time positions ( as in the linked ad ) or part-time . The second type of position could be helpful , or harmful , depending on what sort of tenure-track position you are looking for . You have already narrowed down the type of institution where you would like to have a tenure-track position , and started honing your CV to be a perfect fit for that type of school , right ? If your type of school is an elite research school , then another postdoc seems more likely to be helpful than a teaching position . This is the type of school where leaving the standard progression is most likely to be harmful to tenure-track chances . If you are a likely candidate for this type of position , you probably know it already . If you are looking at non-elite public universities , which have more of a balance between research and teaching , a single non-tenure-track teaching assistant professorship is not a mark of certain doom for your tenure track hopes . You can use the job to hone your teaching , move your research forward a little , and you can use the time to apply for tenure track jobs . If you are looking at teaching-first institutions , or at community colleges , then you need to make sure you have excellent teaching credentials . You might be able to use a teaching-oriented term position as a way to do that . Unfortunately , because of the excess of candidates relative to the number of tenure-track positions in many ( most ? ) fields , and because the number of tenure-track jobs is not increasing , many academics work multiple term positions in a row . This is especially common in the humanities , and it can be " harmful " for tenure track hopes , unfortunately . I was fortunate to find a tenure-track position , so I ca n't speak too much to how to handle the situation of multiple term teaching positions , but you can find a lot of discussion about it on the web .
No , there is n't yet a pre-print server for building physics , although some people have successfully smuggled such papers onto arxiv . Furthermore , there are n't really any heavyweight open-access building-physics journals , and established journals in the field have n't been quick to embrace open-access . There is the option of producing internal working papers and circulating it without publication , to get some of the benefits of pre-print , without risking a publisher 's refusal . However , it 's not easy to reach a very broad audience this way , nor a new audience . Building-physics papers do often span multiple subjects - we often cross-over , for example into health , for example , when we look at condensation and mould , radon , or dust mites ; so there might be other pre-print archives that we can use . And , although it 's a completely different thing , there 's always the possibility to air early thoughts on the building-physics tags on the <URL> and <URL> Stack Exchanges , which can be a way to get a bit of an airing , and reach a different audience to that reached by circulation of working papers .
end question
start question
As an undergrad student , what should I do after taking 2nd-year grad-level math courses ?
From my personal experience it is unusual for undergrad students to have taken 16 math graduate courses while he/she is still in the junior year . What you have taken clearly exceeds the expectations of most graduate programs . If the professors who taught the classes think highly of you , that could be a strong selling point for your graduate school application . As for research experience , you may not want to take it too seriously as a budding mathematician . As Krantz explained in the book A Mathematician 's Survival Guide ( which , btw , is a book you may want to read ) : Mathematics is a bit different [ than other natural sciences ] . We do n't use test tubes . The hard fact of life is that mathematics is a subject that builds vertically . You are not really qualified to do serious research - the sort of research that mathematicians actually do - until after you pass the qualifying exams . So research experience is great in exposing you to the world of math research , but your coursework performance may be sufficient to get you to the graduate school you want to be . I think most graduate programs wo n't mind that you are graduating in three years as long as you complete the same workload as those who graduate in four years . I should say that I 'm not in a math PhD program ; so take my advice with a grain of salt .
The official answer depends on where you are located , and the applicable laws in your jurisdiction . For instance , in Germany , graduate students are almost always employees of the government , and are therefore accorded vacation benefits commensurate to that ( between 23 and 29 days per year , depending upon age ) . In contrast , the United States technically does not have any requirements on annual paid leave , so the answer in principle could be as little as zero , but normally is two weeks per year . Unofficially , that 's a matter to be worked out between you and your advisor . Some advisors will be willing to let you take days off here and there as needed , so long as they do n't interfere with either your long-term progress or meeting your day-to-day responsibilities . Most advisors will be rightfully displeased if you ask to take two months of leave all at once , but most will not mind a three-day weekend here and there as needed .
I have to disagree slightly with the stark " No " answers . Only when those details provide evidence of your potential for research . Some information about your high-school experience may shed light on your research potential . Certainly you would want to mention winning the <URL> or the <URL> , or describe the peer-reviewed research papers you published as a high school student . But your high school grades ? No , leave them off .
I agree with @aeismail 's and @dmckee 's answers , but let me add a different spin : Students are admitted to strong PhD programs not on the basis of how much or what they know , but rather on their potential for successful research . Every program admits students from all over the world , who may or may not have undergraduate degrees in exactly the same field . Beyond a few fundamental concepts , it is not reasonable to assume that incoming graduate students have any specific prior knowledge . That said , most courses for PhD students are generally taught as if the students have a strong undergraduate background in the same field . The definition of " strong undergraduate background " depends strongly on the graduate program ; the expectations at the top PhD programs are generally extremely high . More importantly , PhD students in top departments are expected to have the intellectual maturity to recognize and correct weaknesses in their background , even if the missing material is not normally covered in a strong undergraduate program . Also : Courses are arguably the least important part of any PhD program .
You forget one consideration : do you enjoy using that skill ? To take your own example , I enjoy programming , and even though I might not learn or get anything technical from it , I enjoy solving someone 's else problem with some lines of code :) Of course , one should be careful of the time spent and the reward you can get from it , but doing something you enjoy is very different than doing something you can , but do n't particularly enjoy doing . For instance , I can probably install a server and manage a website ( with a CMS ) for someone , but I do n't enjoy it , so I would be very explicit about the benefit ( I do that for you if you do that for me ) . But I could do some cool coding on my free time . On a completely different aspect , it also depends if you intend to stay in academia : it 's a very small world , and the person you 're doing a favor to today might be the one sitting on your tenure committee in 20 years ( if you work in the same department and all stay in academia , it 's quite likely that your paths will cross again at some point in the future ) .
I do n't think it should be a problem , provided that you are taking some challenging Math/CS classes among your 4 classes . If it looks like you 're trying to skirt by with the bare minimum difficulty of classes , then taking a couple fewer classes could reinforce that negative narrative . But as long as it looks like you 're taking a challenging course load and doing well , I do n't know that people will even notice the 4 vs. 5 issue ( since there are schools where 4 courses is a normal load ) .
As an instructor , the best you can do is to offer your condolences and tell him to just ask you if he needs anything . For example , you could offer an extension on assignments . If he needs some time off from lectures , maybe a classmate who takes good lecture notes will agree to make a photocopy , or you could get the lectures to be recorded for him . Your university might also have a policy that allows students to withdraw from the course and receive a refund of fees without penalty to grades : it would be worth finding this out and advising your student if this is possible . Depending on the severity of the illness and how much it is affecting your student , he might wish to take fewer ( or zero ) courses for a while . If the course is nearly finished , perhaps an aegrotat ( compassionate consideration ) will be applicable to the final exam . But neither an illness in the family , nor a bereavement or any personal physical or mental health issue can excuse a student from having to learn the material and complete assessments in order to pass a course . He will still have to demonstrate mastery of most of the material . Just be compassionate , and as flexible as you feasibly can . Nobody could ask for more .
I am sure that there is a very wide range of opinion/reaction to what some people call " self-study " . For me ( grad admissions in mathematics in the U.S. ) , evidence of interest in reading things beyond what coursework demands is an extremely positive and unusual indicator . That is , so far as people seem to let on , no one reads any math book that 's not a textbook for a course they 've registered for , does not read ahead , and so on . I do n't understand it , although I 've seen it for decades . Yes , it is not as easy to " document " reading things as it is to document " grades in courses " ... but my own opinion is that even excellent grades in courses form only a limited positive , since it refers to compliance , obedience , etc. , even if at a challending level/rate/whatever . That is , for me , mathematics is not merely a school subject , nor merely a thing that one might get research funding for ... :)
You will probably never in your life need the physical certificate . If you do n't want to hang onto it , you can probably just dispose of it ( though you might as well scan it first ) .
If it 's just the first name , cite the work as being authored by a mononymic person . Author names in text are virtually always ( a ) full name , ( b ) initials + last name , or ( c ) just last name . The consistent use of a first name only , along with an entry in the works cited whose author has that name and that name alone , will make it clear that you are a different person ( especially if you actually do quote yourself and have a separate entry , in Last , First format with your works ) . If you still feel that there is the possibility for confusion , upon first mention of the author , insert a footnote or parenthetical statement to clarify the distinction .
Ask one of your professors or the administration about what the best course of action is . Most likely , you should publish as affiliated to the university as the work was conducted while you were at university . In any case , you have nothing to lose by doing so .
As far as I can tell there is no one single commonly accepted application process in Europe , despite what you might have read/heard/interpreted . In my experience there are 3 ways to get enrolled in a PhD program in continental Europe : You find a job advert at a uni where they are looking for a candidate to carry out ( parts of ) a project . In this case you are practically applying for a pre-determined job , and they assess you based on your skills , education and personality ( for group chemistry ) You find a group you want to work for , based on your interests . You get in touch with a group leader/PI regarding your interest in doing graduate studies in that group/lab . If they have the money to recruit you and a project of common interest ( a project that appeals to you and the direction that particular group is going with their research ) you start there , often on a short term " trial period " initially ( the actual/formal name of this period varies widely across the universities and countries ) You get invited to do a project at a group , with people you know previously . This occurs often if you do your master thesis/diploma work at that group , or if you know one of the prof.s at the department . Beyond that , the formalities of what you need to write/submit in your official application would be specific to each uni I would guess . EDIT : I have to actually correct myself , I do know people that had to pitch project proposals for graduate studies , however it still fits more into Option # 2 above , where they got in contact with a group that worked on the field of interest and given that there 's money for recruitment they were asked to formulate a short project proposal . These people were applying for PhD positions in more humanitarian sciences however , one was going for behavioural/organizational economics and the other was more towards sociology I think .
Ideally , find your professor during office hours , and say something like " Hey , this has been confusing me ... I 'm seeing all these references to one pronunciation and you 've been using another . Is there a disagreement in the academic community , or are both pronunciations valid , or did the author use a less-common pronunciation , or are these other references simply wrong ? " In other words , do n't tell her that she 's making a mistake ; ask her to help you learn . Much more polite , much harder to take offense at , and much less likely to embarass you if she says either " Well , this is how [ author ] always pronounced his name when I spoke to him " or " I have a slight speech impediment that I 'm a bit embarrassed about ; thanks for not bringing this up in public . " The fact that she 's outvoted does not necessarily mean she 's wrong . For that matter , she may not be aware that there is a difference , or not be able to reproduce that difference accurately , if her accent is n't the same as the others you 've spoken to ( or your own ) ... or you may be having the same problem in the other direction . You have an interesting question . Ask it . In private , and as a question , and you 'll probably get an interesting answer and maybe a bit of an uptick on your grade for having made additional effort . If you tell her that she 's wrong , and/or do so in the middle of class , it 's likely to go less well for either of you . If you really ca n't meet with her before the exam , despite your best efforts , you have to decide whether you 're going to pronounce it her way , pronounce it your way and -- if challenged -- say " I 've been meaning to ask about that ; this is how I 've always heard it ... " , or try for a compromise between them with the " I 've been meaning to ask " as a fallback . But I really doubt you 're going to get dinged for getting this wrong if you get the rest of the exam right . So maybe you should focus on aceing the exam , rather than on this nitpicky point .
If you are attending universities outside of the US , you normally would n't have much in the way of diversity -- almost all of your courses are directed toward the general area of your major . So it 's not that big a deal not to have too many outside courses . In general , though , I also think that admissions committees do not place as much weight on courses outside the major as courses in the major . If you are a physics major , for instance , a C in a US History course is not going to be as problematic as a C in electricity and magnetism .
Speaking both as a PhD advisor and as someone with a diagnosed and controlled bipolar disorder , I would definitely consider a student with mental health issues . I would , much like awsoci discusses in their response , insist the student not treat the advisory relationship as a therapeutic outlet , and that the student lean on the available resources inside and outside campus . My own PhD advisor ( back in the day ) knew about my issues , and the same holds true for all the PhD students with mental health problems I know right now . All that said , there are risks with disclosing , and definitely with disclosing widely . There is no guarantee that any given PhD advisor would be fine with the situation , and even if there are anti-discrimination clauses available , the relationship might not work out well in the end if it starts out on a shaky basis . To summarize : In principle and in theory , advisors should take on qualified students with disabilities . In practice , your mileage most likely will vary , but I personally would not let the disability be a deciding factor in taking on a student .
I will try to respond to the abstract question , with a perspective from Germany ( that may or may not be valid for other European countries ) : Is the master 's in X PhD requirement in Europe satisfied by a master 's in Applied X rather than Pure X ? The general answer to this is yes . As opposed to the subject chosen for the Bachelor and Master degree , which is <URL> , as Bachelor and Master curricula are closely coupled here , a PhD is often completely disconnected from the former studies . Note that the <URL> that <URL> linked to in the original version of <URL> does not require a particular Master 's degree , but a " relevant Master 's degree " . Without any further restrictions , this means that anything closely related to the subject ( and the relationship between Applied X and Pure X might very well be sufficient ) should do . At least , that would be the interpretation in Germany ; it is possible Austrians interpret this differently . However , it is also very well possible that the suitability of the Master 's major is determined based on the research projects at hand . In that case , it depends entirely on the decision of the respective department chair , and it would be worthwhile to contact departments you are interested in . As a concrete example , it is completely normal in Germany to see Masters of Physics , Linguistics , and Maths starting PhDs in Computer Science , not only Masters in Computer Science . EDIT : To clarify the last remark : None of them have to take any extra courses ; rather , they are expected to bring their professional subject-specific knowledge from physics , linguistics , and maths , respectively , into their computer science research ( while " informally " ( i.e. without a class ) catching up with the CS knowledge ) , just like Masters in CS are expected to use their professional CS-specific knowledge in their computer science research , while " informally " acquiring knowledge on ( w.l.o.g. ) physics , linguistics , and maths , as required for their respective research .
To a first-order , you should say what is actually true . If you enrolled into a Master 's program and that 's the program you are in now , you should not try to indicate you are really a PhD student . Past that , though , how exactly you state something which is otherwise true - how specific versus how vague , for instance - is a reflection of what you are using your resume or CV to actually do . If you are applying for an employment position , you should understand there is no such thing as a singular " resume/CV " - but a variety of versions which are all true , but emphasize different things and are more/less clear about some things , depending on the desired position . You are trying to tell useful story , and what 's useful to someone hiring a staff researcher vs. an entry-level technician can be very different things . Sometimes you 'll want to be specific , such as when your education is a very specific and useful fit for the position , where 'd you 'd say something like , " I earned my Masters 's in Basket Weaving and am currently working on my PhD in the sub-field of Applied Stained Wicker Fabrication Techniques . " In a job where the details are n't so relevant , to save space you might just say " I 'm a graduate student in commercial art . " But to reiterate , the reality of your program at your school is important to what you say . If your program has 2 years of coursework that is like a Master 's program , but they have not explicitly granted you a Master 's degree ( you could not ask them for a physical copy of it because they have n't granted you one ) , then do not imply or say you have a Master 's degree . If your program is for a Master 's degree and then they technically choose or allow students to continue on to a PhD program , do n't just say you are in a PhD program if you are n't . Other than for general reasons of honesty , you 'd be one question away from needing to say something like , " well , technically ... " and then you 'll have to back-track and look like you could just be making up everything you 've said .
From my personal experience it is unusual for undergrad students to have taken 16 math graduate courses while he/she is still in the junior year . What you have taken clearly exceeds the expectations of most graduate programs . If the professors who taught the classes think highly of you , that could be a strong selling point for your graduate school application . As for research experience , you may not want to take it too seriously as a budding mathematician . As Krantz explained in the book A Mathematician 's Survival Guide ( which , btw , is a book you may want to read ) : Mathematics is a bit different [ than other natural sciences ] . We do n't use test tubes . The hard fact of life is that mathematics is a subject that builds vertically . You are not really qualified to do serious research - the sort of research that mathematicians actually do - until after you pass the qualifying exams . So research experience is great in exposing you to the world of math research , but your coursework performance may be sufficient to get you to the graduate school you want to be . I think most graduate programs wo n't mind that you are graduating in three years as long as you complete the same workload as those who graduate in four years . I should say that I 'm not in a math PhD program ; so take my advice with a grain of salt .
One of the best resources for jobs in computational chemistry ( not limited to PhD level positions ) is the job section of the <URL> . Another place where I 've regularly seen relevant postings is the <URL> .
Here 's what I would suggest : First , alert the authors to the issues . Wait to see how they respond , or do not respond . But in all cases , they should be the first you write to . If the issues do not severely impact the correctness of the work or its utility , stop there . It 's probably not worth making a fuss about something most readers will either not use , or can easily correct themselves . If you publish something on the topic yourself , especially if you build on the authors ' equations or otherwise use them , you should make a note of the issue in your article . Finally , if you believe the issue is important and/or the equations are widely used , you should contact the journal 's editor and ask for guidance . Errata are " authored " by the original authors . Publisher 's corrections also exist , when the responsibility for the issue ( typo in equation , misprint in figures , etc. ) is that of the publisher .
end question
start question
How to respond to someone plagiarizing my work ?
I would definitely contact the chief editor of the journal and place the evidence before him/her/them . Plagiarism should not be taken lightly . There is a tendency to be lenient when it comes to self-plagiarism of non-critical parts of the text , for example , parts of methods sections ( in experimental work ) . Regardless where one draws the line , copying sections of text verbatim from others is a clear breach to me . Anyway , it will be the editor 's job to pursue the matter after you made the point . If the journal belongs to a publishing house they may receive legal help to deal with the author . If the editor does not react and there is a clear publisher behind the journal it may be relevant to bring it up a level . If you have someone in your university working on copyright issues , perhaps at the library , then you could also talk to them . They may be able to provide further assistance and help evaluate the case .
I would definitely contact the chief editor of the journal and place the evidence before him/her/them . Plagiarism should not be taken lightly . There is a tendency to be lenient when it comes to self-plagiarism of non-critical parts of the text , for example , parts of methods sections ( in experimental work ) . Regardless where one draws the line , copying sections of text verbatim from others is a clear breach to me . Anyway , it will be the editor 's job to pursue the matter after you made the point . If the journal belongs to a publishing house they may receive legal help to deal with the author . If the editor does not react and there is a clear publisher behind the journal it may be relevant to bring it up a level . If you have someone in your university working on copyright issues , perhaps at the library , then you could also talk to them . They may be able to provide further assistance and help evaluate the case .
end question
start question
How exactly does a conference abstract differ from an article abstract ?
To me an article abstract summarizes the entire article including the overarching questions through methods , results to the major conclusions . A conference abstract will of course also summarize whatever is presented at the conference . The differences lie in several aspects of variable weight : Conferences are often focused on a specific topic so one can be less stringent with the background Conference presentations may involve work in progress and as such the final conclusions maybe quite hazy . The conference abstract may be written before most of the work has actually been done ( this is quite common with some conferences in my field ) and becomes an " advertisement " for what might come . The conference contribution may in some cases involve a paper but can also be a poster or an oral presentation . depending on which abstracts may contain varying levels of finalized conclusions .
There are sometimes " remark " blocks that some authors use for discussing aspects that are of substantial interest to some readers but do not strictly belong to the core of the story that you are telling . If you are preparing your document with LaTeX , then such text blocks are called " environments " . An example is given in the Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science <URL> , page 4 at the bottom .
A poster of which you 're not the first author is such a minor thing I would n't worry about it ( even if it is listed on the conference website ) . I do n't have a huge publication list but still only include posters I presented ( aand only at major conferences ) . They do n't have anything like the CV impact of a peer-reviewed paper . Either : You were accidentally omitted and should be included . In this case the author should contact the conference organisers ( but it 's probably too late ) . Or your contribution was rather minor -- perhaps it only became apparent that your work made it onto the poster at all at the last minute . In this case while you 're named as an author it 's closer to an acknowledgement in practice . Listing it as a publication , if the title can be searched for but you 're not named , does n't seem like a good idea . Realistically no one is ever going to look . But if you just happen to come up against someone who 's interested in something very specific about the poster that you do n't normally do , it is n't going to help you .
To the best of my understanding , the key reason why some conferences publish their proceedings as journal special issues is precisely to enable the papers to be listed as journal papers rather than conference papers . This is essentially a kludge to get around bureaucrats and people from fields with an " only journals count " prejudice . As such , I think that it 's entirely reasonable to list such papers in either the conference section or the journal section . The " technically-a-journal " form , however , typically has different citation information than the conference publication , so if you choose to list them in the journal section , be certain to list them with this alternate citation information , as reported by the journal archive site .
Not exactly an answer , but a couple things to note . Letters on MathJobs expire eventually ; I think you can see the expiration date on the " cover sheet " page . It will be very awkward if it expires partway through the application process . Also , note that your advisor will be able to remove or update the letter at any time , which could be a problem if he is really vindictive - he could replace the letter with something unfavorable . So in short , regardless of how an old letter looks to the committee , it may not be wise to use the letter against your advisor 's wishes .
The relevant citation is provided in the <URL> . To cite in MLA7 : DiIulio , John J. , Jr. " My Black Crime Problem , and Ours . " City Journal , Spring 1996 : 14-28 . Print . Hope this answers your quesion .
The question of what sort of ethical approval is required is a complicated one , depending on the local laws , funding sources , university policies , and journal policies . I do n't think anyone can give a definitive answer without knowing these details . For example , see <URL> for an indication of the rules imposed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services . Since we have the forms of informed consent , are n't they sufficient ? No . If ethical review consisted of nothing but saying " be sure to obtain informed consent " , then it would be replaced by a simple rule requiring informed consent . Even that is tricky ( what exactly are the risks you need to inform participants of ? ) , and there are other issues for a survey . For example , are you following best practices to ensure anonymity of survey respondents ? If none work out , is there a repository for unpublished work like ArXiv in epidemiology ? I do n't know , but I ca n't really imagine the community would look kindly on using such a repository to avoid ethical review . The institute ethical committee denied a post hoc approval . It makes sense for ethics committees to be reluctant to approve research after the fact . One reason is that it puts a lot of pressure on them to approve research that 's not perfect but can no longer be fixed ; another reason is that if post hoc approval is an option , it creates an incentive for researchers to skip the initial approval in the hope of forcing it through the process later .
There are a number of different forms of invited talk , but to me , a clear distinction can be made by considering whether the decision to have a person speak comes before or after any associated submission . If the organizers of the event have decided they want Dr. Smith to speak , based on Dr. Smith 's record , and then afterwards negotiate the particulars of topic and content of the talk , then it 's an invited talk . There might or might not be any publication associated with it , depending on the particulars of the venue . This covers keynotes , seminars , symposia , and many other forms of talk . If the organizers ask Dr. Smith to submit something , and then decide whether they want the talk based on what 's been submitted , then it 's not an invited talk . This is the typical case for conferences , workshops , etc. . What can make things confusing is that the word " invite " is often used in solicitations for submissions of the second type , particularly by low-quality or predatory organizations that are trying to trick people into thinking it 's an invited talk , rather than just another request for submissions . If the judgement comes after the submission , however , it 's definitely not an invited talk -- and if the judgement comes before because it 's a terrible venue , then you should n't go even if it would give you an " invited talk " line on your CV .
I am guessing you are talking about RECOMB , one of the most important computational biology conferences . The story behind this is a little complicated and can show you some of the difficulties faced by a relatively new interdisciplinary field . Since computational biology has both computer scientists and biologists , it needs to answer the needs of both cultures . For computer scientists , presentation and publication in the proceedings of an important conference is considered excellent . In biology , however , publication is mainly in journals . A second difference between cultures is that in computer science it is standard to publish extended versions of conference papers in journals . In biology , this is usually not acceptable unless it is a low-tier journal . So what do you do if you want to get submissions of great work from computational biologists of both sides ? This is a challenge that computational biologists have been dealing with not just in this conference but also in other conferences . There have been all kinds of proposed solutions - I will not list them here . RECOMB organizers have tried different solutions and decided to call the accepted manuscripts " extended abstracts " , and these are published only in the conference proceedings ( which are not freely available ) . This way , computer scientists consider it published in the conference and biologists consider it unpublished so they can still submit it to a high-tier journal . Actually they usually also have other " submission tracks " such as coordinated submission to a specific journal in parallel with the conference .
First , let me say that I really like jakebeal 's answer and his dinner idea . Some of the other answers make good points as well . However , none of the answers so far address the key point of whether morally the award is meant for you alone or also for your coauthors , except for Stephen Kolassa 's answer , which I think gets it entirely backwards . By your description , the award is a young scientist award and monetary prize , given for the " best presentation " . It has your name on it . You are the person who actually showed up at the conference and delivered this " best presentation " ; presumably it was your good performance that won you this honor . Moreover , the conference organizers speak English ( or whatever language " best presentation " was translated from ) and know full well the difference between the meaning of " best presentation " and " best paper " and between the meaning of " award given to young scientist X " and " award given to paper authors X , Y and Z " . I think it is presumptuous and rather inappropriate for some of us to be questioning their intent here . They wanted to give you the award , not your coauthors . So , from a moral/ethical point of view , I see no principle that says you have any obligation to share the award money in any way , either by a cash distribution or by paying for a dinner . One could even hypothetically argue ( depending on whether traveling to the conference was a burden for you and something the other coauthors wished to avoid ) that it is the other coauthors who should be paying for your dinner . With that said , from the practical point of view would it be a good idea for you to share the prize money ? Well , if I were your coauthor I would flatly refuse to accept any share of the money , for the reasons stated above . I would also find it a bit strange to be invited to a dinner at your expense . I would not take offense to such an invitation , and I find the dinner idea appealing in general , but I would politely tell you that you deserve to keep the award money and I prefer to pay for my own dinner . I also find it very hard to imagine any professor who would feel slighted by not being offered to share in the prize money from a PhD student 's young scientist award , so I find Stephen Kolassa 's talk of making enemies a bit unreasonable . The one aspect of the prize-sharing suggestions that I can agree with is that it may make sense to offer the other PhD student coauthors a share of the prize money ( or a free dinner ) , purely as a gesture showing kindness and generosity on your part . I do n't think you are obligated to do this in any moral sense , but it will very probably win you some good will that may be helpful to you down the road , and is just a nice thing to do in general .
In general , I would argue that the new plot needs to do one of two things : present materially different content relative to the old image present the same material in a different context . Graphs are generally visual representations of numerical data . The numerical data itself can not be copyrighted ( because the data are " facts " ) , only the presentations thereof . However , simply changing axis labels or colors , and other similar " gloss " changes , do n't really make the graph any different . Rotating a 3D graph , or changing significantly the relationship of blocks in a mind map or diagram to show off different features would represent a change in the message and presentation , and therefore would be OK . However , chemical structures and mathematical equations are not normally considered subject to copyright , as they represent " facts , " and can not be arbitrarily drawn or represented ; there 's only so many " legal " ways to write them . That said , cutting and pasting somebody 's figure from another article would be a copyright violation ; recreating it yourself would not . ( Otherwise , we would never be able to write E = mc ^ 2 without it being a copyright violation ! ) If there are doubts , however , you can always try to contact the journal in question . If needed , you can ask for permission to reuse a figure , especially if it 's one you 've already created . Most journals already permit self reuse , so long as you include an appropriate credit and citation of the original .
I do n't know of any journal that one could expect to accept " I do n't like your journal any more " as a legitimate reason for retraction : a good journal would probably just scoff at you , while a crappy or predatory journal is unlikely to meaningfully respond to any request for retraction , no matter how legitimate . Therefore , I do n't think you should try to retract it , but simply to drown out your early mistakes over time with subsequent good work . As for whether to leave it on your CV : If you have reason to believe that this journal is a sham that does not actually peer review , then I think that @NateEldredge is right : you can leave it off of your CV entirely or ( better ) , move it to a section on published non-peer-reviewed work , much as you would list an arXiv publication . If the journal is simply crappy , however , I think you 're stuck with it . You really did publish there , and no matter how crappy , it 's still an archived journal publication .
If somebody copies your text , then the fact that you posted this text publicly and earlier on the internet ( in a location you ca n't feasibly control , so it wo n't look like you faked the historical record ) will prove that they plagiarized . It 's a little trickier if somebody in inspired by your idea and writes their own paper that does n't cite yours , since there 's no way to distinguish this from independently coming up with the same idea . It would be unethical to do this , but it could in principle happen . If you pointed out your prior posting , you would deserve to at least share the credit . However , people might still downplay your contribution . " Sure , there was an earlier internet posting outlining the basic idea , but it was n't nearly as well developed and nobody noticed it since it was posted somewhere obscure . The real scientific breakthrough occurred when the idea was independently rediscovered , properly understood and worked out , and disseminated to the research community . " You could end up as a footnote , which is still credit but a sort of grudging credit . I do n't expect this will cause any problems . It 's not worrisome unless your ideal is attractive enough to seem worth stealing , while remaining obscure enough that someone could hope to get away with it . The biggest barrier to intellectual theft is publicity : once enough people know about your idea , anyone who claims to have found it independently will get shot down by someone saying " You may not have known about this , but that 's just your own ignorance , since the rest of us know Awesome Academist came up with this idea in 2015 . You should pay more attention to the internet . " Furthermore , if your idea really stays obscure enough that someone could get away with stealing it , then your posting evidently did n't have much impact on the community and you arguably deserve only a footnote 's worth of credit . ( People deserve some credit for reaching the goal first , but more credit if they make a bigger contribution by circulating their ideas and influencing the research community . ) I doubt you need to worry about theft , but trying to publish your paper formally could help address this possibility by putting your work before a broader audience . Anything worth stealing is worth publishing in the first place , so if theft worries you then you should consider publication .
How early should I start writing a paper for a conference ? Well , there are different approaches . Some people think " there is this conference coming , I need to write something for it " , others think " I have this nice idea of research , let 's see where I could present it " . In the first case , you might need to start very early , since you need to do all the research , while in the second case , you might just need to start early ... Seriously though , it depends a lot of the content of the paper , the mechanical action of writing it ( i.e. , typing and formatting the text on a computer ) is not what takes long . Is it reasonable to write and do experiments at the same time ? Sure . Even if you ca n't finish your experiments by the deadline , it 's very likely you can reuse a good part of what you 've already written for another conference . How many references should you check ? one professor told me : check 200 use 30 . You do n't check references because you should , but because they are relevant to your research problem . You should cite what you 've read and what you think is important with respect to you work . You should cite the approaches that laid the basis for your own approaches , and explain how you build on them , which assumptions you are challenging . You should also cite the approaches that are similar to yours , and explain why yours is better . There is no magic number : there are excellent papers with only 10 citations , and bad ones with 50 references .
After the first review process , could the rebuttal totally change the reviewers ' minds Very likely no . The rebuttal letter is usually very short ( a few hundred words , typically ) in comparison to the actual paper , so it is unlikely that the few extra explanations will turn the reviewer around entirely . Also , what is true for most humans is also true for academics - once people have formed their opinion about something , it is hard to fundamentally change their mind . That is , if a reviewer hates a paper enough to vote for full reject in the first round , a few good explanations will not be enough to turn her/him around to accept . from accept to reject Not unless you write something really idiotic ( " I do n't understand the criticism that this paper is drawing . I am sure , Prof. Bigshot did not have to listen to such criticism when he originally published the same contribution . " ) . Also , if your paper is accepted , what is there to rebute ? or the other way around ? As jakebeal writes , the most likely case is that the rebuttal letters are used to differentiate between a number of borderline papers for a few remaining conference slots . In my ( limited ) experience in the matter , nobody will even really look at rebuttal letters for papers that are already clearly accepted or rejected .
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
One important thing to keep in mind is that the abstract is typically copied to various article databases , which have varying support for markup . As such , much of the formatting will not necessarily be carried over . That nicely formatted bulleted list which appears in the pages of the journal can turn into a confusing mess in online article databases . ( e.g. . It might lose the bullets and be smashed into a single paragraph . ) For this reason , it 's generally recommended to avoid any special formatting in article abstracts - even things like italics should be kept de minimis . If at all possible , skip the bulleted list , and keep the list in plain text format . If you do want to keep the bulleted list , be sure to format the list entries such that things stay readable even if the bullets are removed and everything is collapsed into a single paragraph .
You could write something like the following . Short and sweet . To the editor , Please find attached an article for consideration for publication in the journal Phytoneuron . I assert that this is an original contribution and it has not been submitted for consideration elsewhere . Could you please acknowledge receipt of this submission ? Best regards , Your name Your Affiliation Title of Article Authors Abstract Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipiscing elit . Proin egestas odio non mi mattis rhoncus . Vivamus ultrices urna a ante tristique pellentesque . Nam tincidunt lacus a mi sollicitudin tincidunt . Curabitur malesuada , quam sit amet iaculis lobortis , enim lacus commodo turpis , nec elementum mauris libero ac enim . Quisque justo mauris , eleifend id ornare vel , luctus eget tellus . Etiam auctor ultrices tincidunt . Curabitur diam nulla , aliquam nec gravida a , consequat non nulla . Cras viverra massa id felis blandit gravida . Pellentesque enim mi , convallis vitae ornare quis , ornare sit amet dolor . Pellentesque velit urna , feugiat non tincidunt in , sollicitudin sed purus . Phasellus laoreet ligula nec odio mattis fringilla . Fusce sed arcu mi . Pellentesque dictum erat sit amet sapien pharetra porta .
Just my two cents . Departments pay after they receive the necessary invoice from the student . So , they can not pay hotels before you return from the conference . In my department , buying the air tickets is not enough . I also have to provide the boarding passes that I actually used the tickets . That means you can only get the air tickets money AFTER returning from the conference . This makes partly sense , because if you got sick and cancelled the trip they would not have given any money to you in advance , so you would not have to return them back . In many conferences ( for CS ) , you get the registration invoice at the desk and not when you pay online . Again , this invoice is needed for getting back the money you paid , since most institutions can not provide funding without invoices . Logistically you might make a reservation in 2014 and the trip is going to be in 2015 . Institutions can not pay money in 2014 for an invoice issued on 2015 . This might also occur for smaller logistic periods ( every 3 or 6 months ) as well , depending on the country 's tax laws . Bottom line . You should start counting time AFTER coming back from the conference . Expecting to be paid in advance without providing the proper invoices is simply not possible . After that , it depends on each department 's bureaucracy on how soon you will get the money . And believe me six weeks does not seem that far fetched too .
There are two ways to report your findings : Qualitatively and Quantitatively . Qualitatively is just using words . So you could say " we see good correlation between the datasets in the two experiments , but experiment A shows a slight bias at small time . " Quantitative analysis uses numbers . You could say instead " Correlation analysis shows both datasets are correlated with p < 0.05 . Experiment A shows a bias of 0.1 at times less than one hour , and the correlation coefficient of both datasets using partial data fitting ( I just made that up ) is 0.13 with a t-critical value of 0.2 .
end question
start question
How to remind a professor about sending papers to read ?
Dear Professor X , during our meeting last week , you mentioned that you wanted to send me links to a couple of papers . Would you mind ? Best , Y I often find students agonizing over the exact wording of totally normal emails . The text above took me 10 seconds to write , and that 's the amount of time you can expect the typical professor to spend on the typical email . You 're not going to be held to a much higher standard either . Be polite , formal , and above all brief . Address the person at the top , sign off at the bottom . That 's all that 's being asked for .
the h-index is an interesting measure , but it changes all the times microsoft search does it Google author search does it ( see an example <URL> ) the freely available tool <URL> does it you could try and triangulate the numbers that you get and find the average , as a possible solution
There may of course be differences between different academic cultures and systems but in essence you should be free to read whatever you want . Yes , you will of course need to read some literature to keep yorself up to date with your field to the extent that you can teach whatever courses you need to teach . I assume teaching is something you are ordered to do . Your own research adds the need to read other papers but since you decide your field you also decide what you need to read . If you find other areas of interest ( still within your or related fields ) then I can not see that as a problem . There are many aspects of science such as methodology that can be extracted from , for example , neighbouring fields . In my own case , I find I have a different problem : simply not time enough to keep myself updated to the level I would like . So , reading literature irrelevant to my major field is simply not imagineable . So in the end the answer will depend on what your job situation looks like and what the expectations are , what you are ordered to do and what is your own initiative as well as what might result if you do not fulfil the goals of your employer .
If you believe there are significant problems with an existing manuscript , then you should present these issues to the journal in which the " offending " articles appear . The format this response should take depends upon the nature of the problem . If the issue is in fact " forging experimental results , " then the paper deserves to be retracted . However , this is a difficult allegation to prove , and you would need to have strong justification ( not evidence , per se ) backing up your allegations . However , if the issue is misinterpretations of results or previous literature , this does not quite rise to the level of " academic dishonesty " as forging results . It is not necessarily correct to have the paper retracted . Instead , you should consider writing a " comment " or " letter to the editor " or even a longer paper in response to the problems in the earlier work . Note , however , that if the paper has appeared in a reputable journal , it has gone through some sort of peer review process . As a consequence of this , it will be necessary to present a more " airtight " argument than if the paper merely appears in a repository such as <URL> . In the latter case , however , then there 's probably not much you can do beyond the aforementioned " response article , " as the paper has not been published , and thus retraction depends on the author " self-retracting " the work .
It depends totally on your status , and what exactly this collaboration entails . You say " working as a staff under one professor " . If you 're on a short-term contract ( say , post-doc ) , then it 's probably not okay to do independent research on something completely different . You were hired on a project and it 's unlikely that you have any significant time left for something else . On the other hand , if this new collaboration is related to your project and you involve your professor in it , it is okay ( and he will welcome this initiative from which everyone involved benefits ) . To the above , there are a few exceptions : People who just arrived usually have some unfinished business with their previous institution , and they are given a bit more leeway in finishing it : revisions to make to papers on track for publication , conference attendance , etc. . People who are leaving due to their contract ending have to get involved with other projects to get a new job . They have to go fishing around , and this sometime requires a bit of extra work . Finally , if your activity on the side is quite unrelated to your main job , and you manage to do it on your own time without prejudice to your employer , you may do so . Some people write books , some get involved in open source software unrelated to their employment , etc. . If you 're working as an longer-term staff researcher in someone 's group , then it is expected that they respect your academic freedom . To a reasonable extent , you are free to engage in new collaborations with other people , and not necessarily involve your group leader .
Standards for papers and homework is not the same as for publications . Moreover , there is nothing fundamentally right or wrong about a definition as long as you introduce it as such ! ( in University words mean what you decide they mean -- within reason , that is ) . You can definitely write something like In this paper I will use the definition of a virus as a ' ... ' ( 1 ) and refer to a footnote that says ( 1 ) definition taken from Wikipedia article Virus , retrieved on 2014-10-04 " . Of course if Wikipedia 's definition is taken from a printed reference , use the latter . If you want to be extra-cautious you can have a look at the change log and discussion of the Wikipedia article .
Twenty years ago it was not at all uncommon at international conferences in physics and electrical engineering to attend at " read " presentations , especially from old researchers from Asian countries who were not used to speak English . How was it ? Boring , utterly boring , and audiences drifted away . Please do n't do or suggest it : if you feel uncomfortable speaking , rehearse , rehearse , rehearse .
After I finished my undergraduate degree I wanted to thank those professors who were the most influential to me and my studies over the past years . In particular , those who wrote all my graduate school letters of recommendations and took the time to help me through the process . I thought about getting them a gift , but felt it was inappropriate . What I ended up doing was typing a letter to them which thanked them for all they did to me and provided a specific example in which they were influential to me that helped steer me in the direction I was going . I then mailed it to the department so they received it unexpectedly . All of them emailed me to thank me for the nice letter and that it was their pleasure . This would be a really nice thing to do that is n't flattering and full of praise , but what you actually got from them that was beneficial . Hope this helps :)
The reason he might be asking to see your thesis is to get familiar with what you did , and to evaluate the quality of your work . If all the application materials ( your CV etc ) have English titles , he might not realize that the thesis is in any other language . So , I would respond to him addressing what he needs , and not what he asked for literally . I would write an extended abstract ( summary ) of your thesis in English . I would send the following , the extended abstract , conference paper , and thesis . He can gain insight into all of your work from the thesis abstract you just wrote . Your conference paper evaluates your writing . And finally your thesis is sent just because maybe he understands the language . Even if he does n't speak the language , the references , figures , tables , formulas etc. in the thesis should give him additional information about the content and quality of your work , especially in the context of your abstract .
First I would check if the school has a formal procedure for auditing . For example , my school wants auditors to pay as if they were attending the class , and they also have insurance concerns if , e.g. , a student is hurt in a chem lab and it turns out that they were n't enrolled . You can get this info from the school 's web site or catalog . If that 's not an issue , then I would just send a brief email and ask permission . There are unlikely to be any objections , but it would be polite to ask . Some conceivable problems : There might be a shortage of seating . In certain subjects ( e.g. , languages ) or in classes using certain teaching methods , it might be expected that students will participate actively . The quality of the discussion or activities might be worse if there is an auditor who is n't taking the course seriously . The professor might want to talk to you for your benefit to see if you have enough of a background to get anything out of the class . Personally it does n't bother me if an auditor 's attendance is irregular .
Absolutely not . Affiliations do not matter ; what matters is the value and the fit of the contribution to the journal or the conference to which you are submitting .
As @Nate Eldredge this , how this is received is going to vary widely based on academic culture . Let me assume that this is a course at a US university , and that it is an " official " course : that is , one that students register for , receive a grade for at the end , and the instructor gets some credit for teaching . In this context , the practice would probably not be acceptable to many key people in the university . At most US universities there is a notion of credit hours : there is a positive number of " credits " a student gets for a course ( most frequently 1-4 ) and also a number of hours per week that the course meets . Now ( by widely agreed upon convention rather than cosmic truth , of course ) there is a fixed conversion factor for this : at my university , 50 minutes of class time per week = 1 credit . An instructor who only meets for one hour out of a scheduled two hours is risking the disapproval of the registrar , other departmental faculty including the head , and the students of the course . The registrar is probably going to be unhappy because it looks like the course is trying to cheat the system : if everyone decided to claim twice the number of credit hours that they actually met , it would cause absolute chaos for ( especially undergraduate ) programs . The departmental faculty are also going to be unhappy ( to say the least ) about this , on the one hand because the number of credit hours usually figures into the teaching load -- the standard departmental teaching load basically amounts to faculty teaching so-and-so many hours per week ( on average ; loads can vary from one semester to the next ) . Claiming twice as much as you 're doing is certainly not okay . And of course , most faculty want courses to be taught well , and it is hard for me to think of clearer evidence that my colleague is not doing a good job with his teaching than that he is only meeting for half the scheduled time . Finally , it is likely that the students are going to feel shortchanged ( " halfchanged " ? ) , and in light of all the stuff above , I do n't see a satisfactory rejoinder to a student who feels that way : on the contrary , I think they 're right . So what to do ? I would suggest beginning by bringing it up to a departmental faculty member . Good places to start are : ( i ) the instructor of the course , if you feel comfortable , ( ii ) the department head , ( iii ) whichever faculty member you feel closest to in the department ( e.g. your academic advisor ) . For such conversations , it is important to stay calm and factual . Be willing to proceed in several steps . Definitely indicate an awareness that there seems to be some kind of real mismatch here , and if necessary you might want to mention that university administrators like the registrar might be concerned about it as well . ( Again , I honestly think they would , and departmental faculty should know that they would . So this is more like a reality check than a threat of escalation . ) Another idea : can you ask some other faculty member ( or person in a position of authority ) to visit the course ? Anyone who shows up is certainly going to notice a two hour course ending after only one hour . On the other hand , they may well talk to the instructor before they show up , which might result in the instructor 's taking the full class time . Which is what you want , of course . If that happens once and then he goes back to halftime , then it gives you an easy opening to speak to him about what 's going on . I want to end by saying that this really is cultural . What you 're describing sounds like quite an extreme case , but there is variation between US universities and personnel at those universities on the practice of ending early . It is not unheard of for instructors and students to feel that they have done all they need to do in a certain course meeting and thus end early : they may even feel great about doing so . For me personally , over the course of almost two decades of instruction at US universities , I have moved steadily in the direction of thinking that for a three credit course , the very least I owe the students is 150 minutes a week of me in the classroom . I remember though that I taught one undergraduate course at my institution , pretty soon after I got there , and for various reasons I decided to cancel three of the 50 minute class meetings , including the last one ( excluding the final exam and review sessions for the final ) , because I was interested in presentations given by graduate students in a different course that met at the same time . The present me finds the past me 's behavior slightly outrageous ... So indeed , some variation on how this is perceived exists !
It depends on what that new contact is for . If it is for something completely unrelated to anything that you are working with professor A , then I 'd suggest replying to both with a thank you message and then separately contacting Prof B. If , instead , the work is , even sidely related to whatever you are doing with Prof A , add everyone in your emails . Transparent communication is key in any healthy relationship . If you are worried about spamming Prof A with relatively non-related content you can always contact Prof A separately and directly ask him if he/she wants to keep being CC 'd in the email chain , there is no problem with that . These Profs , they are just people , treat them like people ! . Do n't overthink it , as StrongBad says .
This is just a peculiarity of British English that read can have this particular meaning . The New Oxford American Dictionary says : read 3 . chiefly Brit . study ( an academic subject ) at a university : I 'm reading English at Cambridge [ no obj . ] : he went to Manchester to read for a BA in Economics . So , it 's more about language itself than the official title of the diploma or an academic custom . -- Hey , wait , but where does this idea come up to associate " read " with " learn , understand " ? Surely there is a reason ? And why is it English only ? Well , as it turns out , the meaning of " learn , understand , think , explain " is actually the original meaning of the Old English word from which we inherited read ! The Old English word is rdan ( " explain " , amongst its meanings ) , from Proto-Germanic raedanan , from Proto-Indo-European root re ( i ) - ( " to reason , count " ) . Now , in many languages , the words derived from this root kept their original meaning . In German , <URL> means " to advise , counsel " ; in Icelandic , <URL> means " advise , decide , solve " . Now , at some point something in Old English went sideways . <URL> states very clearly : The development from " advise , interpret " to " interpret letters , read " is unique to English <URL> is more specific : Transference to " understand the meaning of written symbols " is unique to Old English and ( perhaps under English influence ) Old Norse raa . Most languages use a word rooted in the idea of " gather up " as their word for " read " ( cf. French lire , from Latin legere ) . Now , the original meaning of the word read is retained in some contexts in British English , but was lost in other forms of the English language , such as American English . As a summary , the hard question is not really " why can read mean study " , but instead : why did read come to mean " read " ? ( source for the above : my memory , which is backed by the most excellent <URL> )
For typical journals , you do n't actually have to implement all the reviewer 's suggestions to get the paper published . After all , it 's not like the reviewer necessarily knows better than you do what is going to make your paper publishable . ( If multiple reviewers all make the same suggestion , that 's a different story . ) If you have a good reason not to do something suggested by a reviewer , you can not do it and point out in your response to the editor why you made that decision . The important thing is to make it clear that you did n't simply decide to ignore part of the reviewer 's report . If you 're going to avoid implementing any of their recommendations , you do need to justify it . It then falls to the editor to decide whether the paper is still publishable without that particular suggestion being implemented . I 'd add that saying that an addition to the paper would be too large and would justify an entire followup study on its own is a valid response . Even a reasonably common one , I would think . Reviewers have n't done the research themselves ; they do n't know how much work an extension would take , and if you say it would be too involved , there 's a pretty good chance the editor believes that you know better than the reviewer on that point .
Let us assume , for example , you read Doe ( 2011 ) and find Smith ( 1966 ) referenced therein . Technically , you can say something like " Smith ( 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) " , or alternatively " ( Smith 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) . " The exact format depends on the format of the journal ( it is also possible to phrase it " cited by " instead of " cited in " ) . That said , however , it is very dangerous to provide such quotes since you do not know if the person ( s ) citing the paper has understood it correctly . It is not unheard of that people cite for very odd reasons and not double-checking works cited may just propagate such errors . So , it is possible but not recommended .
Yes , you can , and you should . It is not impolite ( unless you actually have access ) , and it is not unethical . I do n't think it is illegal , if you do not distribute it further , and it is certainly not uncommon . First , make sure you really do n't have access ( otherwise , you risk looking a bit like a fool ) , then ask him . Do n't make a big deal of it , just explain that you lack access and you believe he may have them , if so could he please send them .
Your situation is n't that uncommon , actually . You have many options in front of you , and more than one appeal to you . There 's no shame in that ... To answer your questions : How bad would it be seen if I sent applications to several professors ? . I ca n't see why this would considered bad . If anything you are excited about applying to projects . If you have a good portfolio/application , and if you do n't look too desperate there should n't be much of a problem . Just make sure that your applications are relevant and fine-tuned for each position . Nobody likes boiler-plate applications spammed all over the place . . Will the professors even find out that I sent applications to their colleagues ? . They may or may not , it depends on the requirement process ( whether it 's electronic/web-based etc ) used by the institution , as well as the ethical considerations by these professors in question . If you are but a name to these people , what makes you think that they 'll even recognize that you have applied to more than one position ? How many are too many ? See the part above about boiler-plate applications , and spam . You do n't want the person reading your application to get the feeling that you have applied to every possible position . If you can actually muster up a solid application to 15 positions , I say kudos and good luck ! :) But seriously , you do n't want to come across as " I 'll do anything , just pick me ! " Take your time , think about your interests , strengths etc. . And submit one or a few strong applications to positions that are most relevant to you . If you do n't get one of your favorites , but your profile fits some other open position they 'll likely call you in for an interview anyways . Especially if it 's the same group .
Acknowledgements are mostly yours to do with as you please -- in my experience in computer science , at least , there are few hard and fast rules . For my own part , I typically keep my acknowledgements relatively spare , reserving them for people who made significant and meaningful contributions , but who did not rise to the level of authorship . As such , I tend to not acknowledge anonymous reviewers , people who gave feedback that did n't result in large changes in the manuscript , etc. . You should feel free to be more liberal in your acknowledgements if you choose , however -- the only real limitation is if either a ) your manuscript may have length limitations or b ) you do something that can be taken as silly ( which can be <URL> but generally not so much in a peer-reviewed manuscript ) . It is pretty much always the case , however , that acknowledgements say what a person is being acknowledged for . If you say that , then people will know how to calibrate the contribution . If you have a hard time figuring out what to write , that may be a sign that the person did n't do enough to be acknowledged .
If there 's a specific reason , such as a deadline at another school , that it would be helpful to know your status , then I think its very reasonable to send a message to the graduate director at a program you 're considering . Asking just because you 're curious is generally discouraged , but if you have new information , then its reasonable to ask for an update .
end question
start question
How to respond to my name being included in acknowledgements of incorrect/misleading paper whose authors ignored my recommendations ?
How acknowledgments work is always a bit of a judgment call , but to me the following principle seems reasonable . You are free to acknowledge anyone in any paper as long as what you acknowledge them for is factually accurate . If you have any reason to believe that the acknowledged party might take issue with the factual accuracy of what you write in your acknowledgments , it would be honorable to show them a draft of the paper and ask for their blessing on the wording of the acknowledgment . If this causes them to ask to be omitted from the acknowledgments , then it seems reasonable to honor this request unless you feel that removing this acknowledgment compromises academic integrity . ( For instance , if you are including significant work of the acknowledged party , then just because they do n't want you to mention that does not necessarily make it okay to do so . This creates a sticky wicket that other questions and answers on this site have addressed . ) I believe it follows from the principle that whether acknowledgments are acceptable depends more on what they acknowledge you for than whether they drop your name or not . For instance , suppose they thank you for " helpful conversations " . If you did in fact speak ( or write ... ) to them about their work , then if they say the conversation was helpful , how can you argue ? I think that most savvy academics understand that just dropping someone 's name in the acknowledgments does not mean that the paper contains their imprimatur . Nevertheless it is shady to acknowledge someone -- especially someone very famous and eminent -- purely for the cachet that their name may convey to less than savvy readers . <URL> a famous review of Marilyn vos Savant 's book on Fermat 's Last Theorem that calls out the author along these lines : she acknowledged some very famous mathematicians , who when contacted by her surely did not say anything to indicate that the material in her book was correct ( not only does it contain errors , but it contains errors that any practitioner or serious student of mathematics would regard as bizarre ) . In the case at hand : I think the OP would be within her rights to mention that she would rather not be acknowledged in the paper . Whether she wants to indicate that this is because she still finds the work to be significantly flawed depends on all kinds of social and political factors beyond the scope of this answer . As to that I would only say : in my opinion , simply very politely asking for your name to be removed from the paper without getting into why is probably a higher percentage strategy than indicating that the work is still problematic . Added : Let me add that the principle above is meant to be on the minimalist side . In practice , if you think that someone is not going to appreciate being acknowledged in your paper for whatever reason , then unless there are academic integrity issues involved in omitting the acknowledgment it seems wise to do so . Once I acknowledged a friend of mine in a preprint in a way which was factually accurate but nevertheless embarrassing to him : he simply did not want to be associated with something that he viewed as intellectually trivial . I took his name out of the later drafts of the paper . This incident has made me think more carefully about how acknowledgments will be received by the acknowledged party .
The only thing you can really do here is to contact the organizers and publishers of both journals , and indicate what is going on . More likely than not , you will need to withdraw one of the papers , as publishing both papers under very similar titles with identical scientific content ( or very nearly so ) is considered inappropriate .
I usually try to add a line to the acknowledgements to thank anonymous referees and I try to make it honest and clear . Reviewers ' time and effort invariably improves my papers and I think it 's only polite to thank anybody who contributed for their time , effort , and engagement to making a manuscript better . Will anybody care if it 's missing ? Will anybody even notice if it 's missing ? Probably not . That said , although it may be the " job " of the reviewers to give suggestions , refereeing is something that academics do as volunteers . Reviewing papers is perhaps the most thankless part of an academic job . Acknowledgement of the positive impact that referees have seems like the least an author can do .
To the department . The point of publishing work is to share the knowledge with others . This will be more greatly achieved in your previous department where other professors and up-and-coming students can have access to your work . This would be better than your work simply sitting on your old supervisor 's book shelf . Your supervisor likely knows your work and therefore does not need a constant reminder sitting on his or her shelf . Also , I never knew an academic supervisor who cherished having a previous student 's work sitting on their shelf solely for sentimental reasons , which I think might be your motive .
There is no definite answer . It really depends on how much previous literature exists , how much of it you have reviewed and cited appropriately , and ( loosely ) what the word count of the document is . Page count can misleading , as some theses have many more figures and tables than others . No one is going to skip to the bibliography , think negative thoughts , and say " you have too many references ! " without reading the document . If no individual part of the thesis could be considered as having too many citations , then the thesis as a whole has an appropriate number of citations . These related questions have answers as to how you can decide if a particular part of the thesis has too many citations . <URL> <URL>
Many journals publish correspondence or short reports that are brief research works , usually with a single finding , straightforward methods , and not much more than that . They are intended for quick , " Hey , we 've always wanted to know the value of X , and turns out it 's 7 " studies - they belong in the literature , and may be useful , but are not a full research paper . They are often also referred to as letters , notes , or by other names . Sometimes they 're purely defined by concept , sometimes by word count . For example , consider Ecology : " Notes are short papers that present significant new observations and methodological advances . Notes may contain results that are not sufficiently elaborated or developed as to justify an Article , but which are still of considerable potential significance . " vs. " ... an Article tells a more complicated story with distinct components . The greater length of Articles relative to Reports must be justified by their greater complexity Or American Journal of Epidemiology , which uses word counts : The maximum number of words per article , exclusive of tables , figures , references , and abstract , should be as follows : Original Contribution , 3,500 ; ... Brief Original Contributions , 2,000 ( with no more than 2 half-page tables and 40 references ) or Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology : Original Articles should include a title page , a structured abstract of no more than 250 words ( see below ) , a text of no more than 3,000 words , no more than 7 tables and figures , and no more than 40 references . Concise Communications should include a title page , a narrative abstract of no more than 50 words , a text of no more than 1,200 words , no more than 2 tables or figures , and no more than 10 references . Research Briefs should include a title page , a text of no more than 900 words , no more than 1 table or figure , and no more than 10 references . This category of article is intended for the presentation of short , focused , and evidence-based experimental observations : substantial preliminary and novel results of importance to the journal readership but not substantial enough in content to warrant a longer presentation . Research Briefs undergo the same peer review as longer article types . Your paper is either too short , or only presents a short , focused result that the journal does not consider a " full " paper . It 's hard to know , as they wo n't exactly lay out the definitions of papers they do n't accept , but you may want to look at similar journals to see if there is a field-based consensus for what a sufficiently large finding is .
The correct answer is not to wait until two days before the deadline to check in on your co-author 's progress . Presumably this is no longer an option . If the section is not necessary , take it out . If it is necessary , you and your non-tardy co-authors can try to get together and do it together before the final deadline . You should certainly tell the tardy co-author what you plan to do ( I mean the collective " you , " as in you and your other co-authors ) . If the tardy co-author 's contribution does n't make it in before the final deadline , then his name wo n't go on it either . Note that if this was a paper being submitted for publication , e.g. a conference submission , and not for school , you would likely just miss this deadline entirely and have to wait to submit to another conference .
This is clearly answered in the comments by @Stephan Kolassa ( making community wiki here just to post an answer for the question ) . Absolutely do NOT resubmit the paper ! If you do , you could end up having everything rejected . Contact the editors of the journal . 3.5 months is not such a long time for journal review in many fields ( unfortunately ) but it is sufficient time to warrant a quick friendly email to the editor asking what the progress is . Though you should not pester the editor , contacting them after 3.5 months seems perfectly reasonable . But keep a friendly/deferential tone . ( Do n't demand or complain ... just ask for info . ) ( And best of luck with the reviews . The first submission is always the most nerve-wrecking . If it works out , then great . If not , try not to sweat it too much . Rejection happens to nearly everyone . )
I have unfortunately seen these kinds of shenanigans before , so : know you are not alone , whatever cold comfort that may be . This situation has no " pro , " and has the following significant " con : " you are not getting the credit you deserve for your work . In fields where author lists are not ordered alphabetically , order is used to signify the author 's contributions to the paper , and first-author papers are much more important for things like hiring and promotions . I suggest the following steps . 1 . Talk to your advisor Maybe this is just a misunderstanding , or there are other variables in play you 're not aware of ( unlikely , but possible - see <URL> ) . Have a conversation with your advisor to see if you can clear this up . Here 's your opener : I thought that in IT , usually the student who did most of the work is the first author and the advisor is the last - this is the case in all the papers I have read . Why do you propose a different order ? 2 . Run , do n't walk This behavior is typically an indication that either your advisor is completely unaware of conventions in your field ( charitable interpretation ) , or your advisor is aware of the authorship conventions and is deliberately violating them to your disadvantage , which is extremely unethical behavior . In either case , this means that your advisor is simply unsuitable to be an advisor , to anyone , and you should find another one as soon as humanly possible . 3 . If all else fails If you are stuck with this advisor for some reason1 , be prepared for a very bumpy ride . This is not likely to be the last stunt he/she pulls . However , you can at least try to argue your case : there is some advice on the subject <URL> , although that question does not specifically address the case where the advisor is demanding first authorship for him/herself . 1This site is full of students who insist on staying with a completely unsuitable advisor , for one reason or another . I suspect <URL> .
Answering the more general question , sure . A polite email will never hurt you , the worst case scenario is that they are too busy to reply , or that their contact information is no longer valid . The best possible outcome , you get a nice explanation , an interesting conversation , and perhaps a couple of anecdotes about the research . Just make sure that question is : Relevant to the research . Obviously , I do n't email Linus Torvalds every time my linux computer does n't boot . The information is not easy or obvious to find . Just liquid refrigeration of computer components does n't really meet any criteria , but you could ask for the specifics . Just make sure to understand the basics first , if your question looks " dumb " , it will probably get lower priority . Reading a paper for my own research , I found a somewhat old paper ( about 10 years ) explaining the analysis of some data . One of the key points is setting the noise threshold , that they set as the maximum of the histogram . The thing is that in my data the maximum of the histogram was at 0 , following a very good power law . In short : the procedure would be invalid for my data ; but actually irrelevant for me . I commented it with my advisor and he said that I should email the author about it , and that it will probably start an interesting conversation . ( I have n't gotten to it yet , but my bet is that modern instruments are quite different ) .
The typical way to list such a paper is ' author , author , and author . " Title " , Journal of XYZ , to appear ' That should be enough with regards to your C.V. Anyone in academia will be familiar with this notion , and is unlikely to be think that you might be lying . After all , the truth will become obvious one way or another shortly . If they want to see copies of your papers , it 's OK to attach a preprint as well , as long as you clearly label it : " Preprint , do not distribute . " Many journals will in preproduction have sent you a proof copy with exactly this as a watermark . Sharing in this way clearly falls under fair use protection , even if you have transferred copyright , just as if you were showing it to them in person .
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
Follow carefully the indications of the editors , and to the best of your ability try to follow the ones by the referees . Usually both agree and so there is no conflict . When there is , then the editor 's opinion wins , as they are the ones with the power to decide whether your manuscript will be accepted or not . That being said , it is wise to not ignore the comments from the referees even if they seem to have been ignored by the editors . If the referee claims your work does not add anything new to the field , what would you answer ? I would try to see it as a valid criticism and answer it the best I could . Think that this kind of question can come also in e.g. a conference ! In that context what would you answer ?
Variations are possible , but I have found that the following seems to be a fairly typically form of a response to reviewers : Begin with a letter to the handling editor and reviewers , in which you thank the reviewers for their useful feedback ( even if it was n't ) and say you believe you 've addressed all comments . If you 've made any really major changes , a sentence or two here is a good to address them . Quote the reviews as sent and address each comment inline , either saying how you 've done what they wanted or explaining why you have n't . I always organize by reviewer and address in the order of their comments ( rather than the structure of the paper ) because the goal is to clearly show that you have addressed all comments . I recommend adopting a polite and semi-formal style . You can be a bit more informal than the paper , but I still do n't use contractions . Do not get argumentative with the reviewers , and do not blow off their criticisms . Even an apparently crazy criticism should be treated politely , and as a matter of confusion rather than as a personal attack .
My answer is similar to but slightly different from <URL> , but gives more meaningful context about this company 's contribution and why you are thankful to them . I am indebted to [ COMPANY ] and their managers and employees for serving as host and advisers to me for five months as I performed the core of my research . In particular , I would like to thank [ NAME ] , who graciously tutored me about [ TOPICS ] which enabled me to [ CONTRIBUTION ] . I would also like to thank [ NAME ] , [ NAME ] , AND [ NAME ] , who provided feedback and guidance along the way . You should list first and last names for each person , including titles if they have a PhD or are a medical doctor : " John Jones , PhD " or " Dr. John Jones " .
It depends on the subfield of computer science . For example , if the paper is in theoretical computer science , then author order is alphabetical , and the equal work put in by the authors is not negated by the author ordering . If in a discipline where author order is meaningful , then it 's standard practice to ( say ) order the authors alphabetically and add a footnote saying that all authors contributed equally to the work .
In addition to sending an e-mail to the journal , as suggested already , you should check the most common academic databases such as Scopus and Web of Knowledge/Science and submit corrections to them so that they pick up the citation correctly . They have a form to submit this kind of corrections automatically ; it will then take a few weeks to apply them . People often ( way too often , actually ) rely on these databases to measure the performance of academics , so it is important that they do n't miss any of your citations .
I do not generally see people highlighting their name in a CV in this way , and I do not think that it is necessary ( though perhaps the culture in experimental physics is different ) . In a CV , you are by definition an author of every listed paper , and papers where you are first author leap out pretty easily to the eye already -- unless you 've got lots of papers , in which case , why worry about it ? If you highlight your name , on the other hand , I think that it could come across as insecure , since it is not normally done .
Asking your advisor , as suggested by @NateEldredge , is a good first step and many advisors will be able to help you . In some cases , though , your advisor may be unfamiliar , may just not publish much any more ( that was the case for my advisor ) , or may not be able to effectively help for other reasons . If this is the case , then I would suggest two other methods for figuring out where to send your papers : Look at the papers that have been published in previous years , and see how their scope and quality compares to yours . Aim high , and see what kind of feedback you get back from the reviewers . The worst that happens is that they reject your paper .
I 've never seen anything like this on a CV . If you have other publications , I certainly would n't include this . It would look like you are trying too hard to find something to put on your CV , which could do more harm than good . Let your publications stand for themselves . One thing you could do when describing the various jobs you 've had , is to include the statistical analysis work in the description of the activities you performed in that job . You could also mention it in the cover letter , if it is relevant for the job . Finally , do bring it up in the interview as an example of how you work in a collaboration .
end question
start question
How to organize the referee report of a paper ?
There are no standards but there is a reasonable logical progression that can be followed from the general and larger to the smaller points . I would therefore structure a letter as follows : An introduction highlighting the merits of the topic and the study . Often this paragraph ends by stating that certain revisions may be necessary . It i snot the reviewers task to state whether he or she feels the manuscript should be rejected , under go revisions or be accepted . That should be stated to the editor only . Following the introduction would be more general aspects such as structure , language etc. . Next larger scientific issues that concern more general aspects of the study , not tiny details . The points would concern entire chapters or sets of paragraphs and usually be the cause for significant reworking of the manuscript . The final part , and usually the longest may be small issues or questions concerning aspects that need clarification or correction , usually pointing at the page and line where the problems occur . The letter should be capped off by summarizing the review and making a statement as to whether you think significant or minor reworking is necessary . Note that I am not speaking about a verdict but an assessment of how much work you think is necessary to complete the short-comings you have identified .
In my opinion , the simplest and quickest ( but not necessarily the most optimal ) solution would be to rank those frameworks [ A , B , ... ] by your favorite criteria ( i.e. , importance , fit to my research career goals/interests , fit to my department 's research interests , etc. ) and then perform bibliometric search within the IEEE journals scope , using one or more of your top-ranked frameworks as keywords . The resulting list of journals would be pretty relevant to your paper as well as to your most important criteria .
There is nothing special about the initial date of submission . As such , it is entirely acceptable to add new citations , including for recently published papers , at any stage except for some journals ' final proofing ( where they really just want to confirm their formatting and copy-editing ) . Moreover , in many cases it is not just acceptable but required , especially given that review may be a very lengthy process . For example , I am in the middle of a revision right now of a paper that had an unusually long initial review for my field -- from first submission to submission of the revision will be nearly 18 months . In the revision , we will most certainly be citing new work , including some of our own other recently published work , as a necessary part of addressing the comments of the reviewers . So , in short : yes , cite whatever is useful to cite , regardless of its publication date .
Some of the things that I have seen white-papers be useful for : Position papers , manifestos , and other intellectual opinion statements . Disseminating protocols , techniques , standards proposals , and other things that are useful but " below the threshold " of a normal publication Seeding discussions with program managers and other potential funders and collaborators . Date-stamping a piece of work so you can get it out of your queue and move on . Much better a white paper in an informal repository than a disreputable journal . Sometimes white papers end up " upgrading " into proposals or publications of various types -- sometimes very high impact publications . Sometimes they even draw a surprising amount of citations . Mostly , though , they are for the less formal side of scientific life . A well-regarded white paper sort of statement can <URL> . One thing that I think is very important is , for any white paper that you are disseminating publicly , to get it into some archival location . There are a number of methods for this , from arXiv to standards RFCs to institutional technical report collections . If do this , it will be much easier for people to cite your white paper , pass it around , and generally disseminate it . And if it 's persistent , you can feel much more comfortable adding it you your C.V. . .
In the journal where I am an associate editor , there is an unofficial policy that editors do not review . The reason for this is simple and pragmatic : if somebody is an editor , they are doing a whole bunch of work of the journal in that capacity . Asking them to review as well is double-duty , and the journal wants to spread the service load more broadly over the community . Now , there are special cases where an editor will do a review , particularly when there is difficulty obtaining a sufficient number of qualified reviewers . In my experience , though , this is rarely due to difficulty finding people with sufficient knowledge to review , even in highly specialized fields . Instead , it is most likely to happen with a certain species of dreary borderline paper that is very badly presented but possibly salvageable -- confronted with such a beast , reviewers suddenly all become " too busy at the present time " and an editor may end up having to review it themselves . So , returning to your question : I would suggest not bothering to suggest an editor as a reviewer . If you have a choice to suggest a handling editor , that 's fine , but your suggestion of editor as reviewer is likely to be simply ignored .
Since your field does not normally do standard alphabetical ordering , then its use here might signify that something unusual is going on . So you could in principle list everybody in alphabetical order , identify the corresponding author , and then insert a note in the acknowledgments that everyone contributed more or less equally to the paper . Alternatively , in some fields , papers can be authored by " teams " instead of individuals -- although all the individuals participating in the team are cited somewhere . This is more typical when the collaborations run to the hundreds of authors rather than a few to a dozen . If the journal you submit to allows this , it would probably be the fairest option of all .
A book or paper on writing is a good introduction but can usually not solve everything . Reading a book does not mean you can reproduce what it teaches , particularly with writing since it is something that needs lots of practise . One problem is that writing is a question of both knowing how to structure the science but also a question of building and formulating the text , the latter being a language issue . So it is usually relatively easy to teach students how the technical side works and provide explanations for why . Teaching students how to be concise and precise is another question and without lots of practise it is quite difficult to get anywhere . During a thesis much of the language issues are ironed out by constant revisions sugested by the advisor . I also point out to all my students that writing is a life-long learning process and thatit is never to late to develop and change your writing . However , I have some sources I fall back to : Katz , M.J. From research to manuscript . A guide to scientific writing . Springer Day , R.A. and Gastel , B. , How to write and publish a scientific paper . Cambridge The <URL> OWL is also very useful . For language ( English ) I have ( aside of Strunk &amp; White ) found Glasman-Deal , H. Science research writing for non-native speakers of English of use . There are of course lots of books around but all are definitely not good . A final gem is a short paper on abstracts Landes , K. , <URL> . Bulletin Of The American Association Of Petroleum Geologists . 50 ( 9 ) , 1992-1999 . Which provides an excellent description of the abstract .
In one of the coursework at my university , I submitted a very detailed project report done for the course . It later turned out that the work contributed some value to the field as well . Is it right to submit the report reformatted as a research paper ? So long as the results are novel and you meet the other necessary prerequisites for publication ( acknowledge main contributors as authors , acknowledge secondary contributors in acknowledgements , reference and discuss related work , meet level of technicality/significance required , etc. ) , I do n't see any problem of submitting course-work for publication , and if as you say the work has had some impact in the field , I think it should be encouraged ! Do we need to provide any special mentions to the coursework or any other related disclosure ? You should ask your professor or other senior staff member for advice , but I do n't believe any special mentions would be required other than what 's mentioned above . You could mention it as a footnote or as an acknowledgement if so desired . Also , if your work was ( even indirectly ) funded through a specific research grant , they may require acknowledgement as a condition of the grant . Again , talk to a staff member involved .
How to handle this depends on your field . If your field has a notion of first author , then " [ name of first author ] et al. " is appropriate . In fields like math that use alphabetical ordering , I 'd strongly recommend naming all the authors , since " et al. " could be read as diminishing the credit later authors get . I would not be happy if my name disappeared into an " et al. " The sentence " [ last name of author 1 ] , [ last name of author 2 ] , [ last name of author 3 ] and [ last name of author 4 ] provide an interesting insight in their case study ... " sounds fine to me . ( I.e. , the same sentence as in the question , except that I assume " Andria A , Paul S , Derek B and Howard C " are just stand-ins for the actual names , and not actually a proposal for how to format the names . )
I 'm not entirely sure about what kind of publications you are talking about when you say ' published by vendors ' ( white papers , brochures , user manuals ? ) . But if you are referring to scientific literature , my answer is : by all means . I do n't se why you would refrain yourself from commenting the possible limitations or drawbacks of published methods . Just stay modest and consider the possibility that these publications came out a while ago and that the general knowledge in the field improved since then . Being critical , if done properly ( give objective reasons ) , is certainly something to be encouraged at the Master 's level , and yes the appropriate section for this is the " State of the art " section .
This is clearly answered in the comments by @Stephan Kolassa ( making community wiki here just to post an answer for the question ) . Absolutely do NOT resubmit the paper ! If you do , you could end up having everything rejected . Contact the editors of the journal . 3.5 months is not such a long time for journal review in many fields ( unfortunately ) but it is sufficient time to warrant a quick friendly email to the editor asking what the progress is . Though you should not pester the editor , contacting them after 3.5 months seems perfectly reasonable . But keep a friendly/deferential tone . ( Do n't demand or complain ... just ask for info . ) ( And best of luck with the reviews . The first submission is always the most nerve-wrecking . If it works out , then great . If not , try not to sweat it too much . Rejection happens to nearly everyone . )
You can use to search for phrases in the title ( no space after the colon ) and similarly you can use to search in the body .
I highly recommend a software to manage this like Endnote , Zotero , or Mendeley . The last two are free if your library is small enough ( depends on the size of the PDFs ) . That will make things much easier by cleaning up the metadata and helping you use search tools to find the right papers . In each of these software , you can also sort the papers around . The key is that within these software , you can put a paper into multiple folders/categories/groups / whatever else they call it . I use this liberally . Note that the software will keep the reference as one reference with multiple links , and so if you do things like annotate or add notes to the file they will be visible at all locations where you can find the paper . Before doing anything make sure the metadata is all correct . You can always last resort with using the search bar if it is . First put each paper into a field . So I would make a folder like breast cancer , and then have a subcategory like metastasis if I have a bunch of papers specifically on that subtopic . Finding odd papers reduces to remembering what subtopic it 's from , and finding that subtopic folder within the right topic . If a paper works in multiple different places , I put it in each place . Then add the papers to project folders . I make a master folder for each project , and subfolders for different parts of the project , put the appropriate references . The software can now automatically generate a file with all of the references for the paper which helps with citing . Using this method , you can always dive down into a folder/subfolder that makes sense , either by project or by field , then sort by title/author/year / etc ( and easily switch between these ) , or use the search in the subfolder , and always quickly find what you need . But ... you will need to take a day or two to set this up . That 's a long and tedious task , but definitely worth it . Then I usually just do a minor fix up for new additions every few months to keep it tidy .
If the goal of your paper is to show that your code solves a particular problem or performs a specific task , then it is your responsibility to prove to the reviewers that your code does what it claims to do . The easiest way to do this is to include the code as part of the supporting information for your paper . However , reproducibility -- which is what you 're asking about , to a certain extent -- is a not-so-simple question when it comes to showing codes do what they 're supposed to . For instance , a code that runs one way under one configuration may return a slightly ( or perhaps _ very ) different result when run under another configuration . This does n't mean that one result or the other is wrong -- it just means that this behavior needs to be taken into account when evaluating the correctness of software . One way to help this is to provide as much information as possible on your testing environment , so that any differences between the system on wich you were working and the conditions the reviewers and future potential users of your code will have can quickly be identified . This would be included , perhaps , as a text file that accompanies the code in the supporting information .
With regard to : I did research in a number of different field ( ... ) finding out I 'm not super talented , but I learn fast and I have some intellectual stamina . I will try to focus on " talent " and " stamina " , two self-evaluation criteria you mention which have not been directly addressed in the comments so far . You set up a contrast between stamina ( which I interpret as a combination of curiosity and persistence ) and talent ( which I interpret as the ability to do more original/creative work with less apparent difficulty ) . You also mention several specific disciplinary sub-fields of research : xrays , etc. . I wonder if your perception of your " talent " might be more a consequence of the switching you have done between different areas of research , rather than your innate capacity for original research in one or more of these fields . Research in learning and expertise development suggests that it takes about 10 years of concentrated work in a particular discipline ( whether it is chess , car racing , or an academic field ) to develop expertise . Once developed , such expertise may be mistaken for talent by a less-trained eye . Your words suggest a judgment formed by comparing yourself to others . If these others happened to be more experienced in a given area of research , then the difference in " time on task " may partly account for your perception of lesser capacity for original research in some ways . A couple points seem worth making : You probably do want to eventually identify , develop , and apply your talent in some field . Whether it is CS or Physics or something else , it has to be something you should be willing to apply yourself to for an extended period of time . As you decide on your post-PhD path , consider the disciplinary area that you think could hold your intellectually engaged for a while . If your interest in research is such that CS is a means to answering questions in other fields , then CS is a means rather than an end for you . This will take you down one particular career trajectory . However , if your interest is in questions in CS proper , this might imply a different trajectory ( e.g. a research scientist/programmer in a physics lab , vs. a research scientist in a research center that focuses on computational questions like algorithms , etc ( sorry , CS is not my area ) . Finally , saying that you " like doing research " is a starting point for some deeper reflection . Think about HOW you like to do " research " - stated differently , what are the characteristics of a research project that make it exciting and fulfilling to you . A big part of this has to do with the level of " agency " you are comfortable with . Some people find satisfaction in carefully nurturing their own research agendas . They do this by working in a very specific niche for a very long time , spearheading ( as a PI ) their own grants and building partnerships and communities around a specific theory and/or methodology . Others are less comfortable leading , and prefer following -- rather than agonize over what grant to apply for , they are happy supporting on-going work , where the decisions about the direction of inquiry have mostly been made for them . While both kinds of people may ( justifiably ) consider themselves " researchers , " the differences in approach can lead to very different career trajectories in terms of the role one is shooting for and the kind of institution ( size , mission , etc. ) that is compatible with each of these roles/goals . Good luck !
First , I think you are worrying too much . Second , I think it is bad form on the part of the authors . If the material on the website is critical for the paper , it needs to be provided in an archival form that the journal can keep track of . I would evaluate it based on what you have been given .
Many universities will publish statistics on how many of their graduates are employed or in further education within X months after graduating . If you 're only concerned about getting a job , then that 's probably your best source of information . That said , in the end it depends on you . People get jobs with crappy degrees and fail to get jobs with really good degrees . Whether you 'll be able to get a job in your chosen field will depend on what exactly you do for your degree . A good opportunity for improving your chances of getting a job after you graduate is to do an internship while you 're at university . Many universities have job centres or similar that can help you with that .
No , you should not , but there is of course no law that prevents it . Peer review is a process where the editor appoints reviewers because of their expertise to provide independent and knowledgeable views on the submitted manuscript . As such the reviews should pass through the editor since they are not only made to improve the manuscript from the point of the author but also prepare it to be worthy of publication in the journal to which it is submitted . Making such contact is thus breaking an understanding with the editor/journal and integrity of the journal review system and quality assurance . The correspondence needs to go through the editor .
I wanted to see if there is any way to point out who was the main contributor in a graph paper or not ? Generally not . In pure mathematics it 's extremely unconventional to use any author ordering other than alphabetical . You could try , but it will look weird and attract negative attention , and nobody will be quite sure how to interpret it . In particular , you run the risk of having people think " this jerk insisted on being listed first despite the near-universal use of alphabetical order " . I virtually never see papers with any other author ordering , and I would not recommend it . It 's also rare and considered awkward to include any discussion in the paper of who contributed what . One reason is that it 's difficult to write such a discussion fairly . For example , suppose your collaborators try three approaches that fail before you find one that works . Reasonable people could disagree as to whether your collaborators were obviously on the wrong track all along , or whether they pointed the way to the solution by eliminating other plausible methods . ( The general principle is that if your collaborators are n't useful , then you should n't be working with them . Turning this around , if they are useful enough that you are happy to work with them before the problem is solved , then you ca n't retroactively decide that they were n't useful enough afterwards . ) The flip side of this is that the standards for being an author are fairly demanding , and coauthors should have seriously worked on the mathematics itself . In particular , supervising the project or editing the paper are not by themselves sufficient for coauthorship . But it 's reasonable for these people to be coauthors if they worked on the problem with you , even if you were the one who ended up making the decisive contribution . I think it may be a very deciding factor in being accepted by a good university for a master program because we can only have a few papers before graduation . The usual way this information is conveyed is a letter of recommendation from your supervisor , who can highlight the role you played in the project .
If you are writing a research paper it is quite difficult not to have a question in some form . The purpose of the introduction is to set your study ( question/gap of knowledge or what have you ) in perspective , to narrow the focus down from a slightly bigger picture to the gap you are trying to fill or narrow even further with your study . Even if your paper is a review , you are doing a review for some specific purpose . So , you may be thinking too narrowly if you think of a question as a sentence with a question mark , the focus of your paper will be your research question , usually a gap in knowledge where you through your study takes our knowledge beyond the current limits .
end question
start question
Typical experiences of transgender people in academia ?
Jennifer Finney Boylan , Professor of English and Department Chair , Colby College , Maine . Jenny wrote " She 's Not There " and other great books . My heroine ( happily married to a woman ) Dr. Lynn Conway . Lynn invented both VLSI and superscalar architectures . Professor Emeritus , University of Michigan . My heroine ( happily married to a man ) Dr. Deirdre McCluskey , University of Chicago , Professor of Economics . Very famous economist from Milton Friedman 's old school . Want more ?? You are in the SAFEST profession to DO the transition !! Read Jenny books and Lynn 's website and you 'll learn how to do it , step by step .
Jennifer Finney Boylan , Professor of English and Department Chair , Colby College , Maine . Jenny wrote " She 's Not There " and other great books . My heroine ( happily married to a woman ) Dr. Lynn Conway . Lynn invented both VLSI and superscalar architectures . Professor Emeritus , University of Michigan . My heroine ( happily married to a man ) Dr. Deirdre McCluskey , University of Chicago , Professor of Economics . Very famous economist from Milton Friedman 's old school . Want more ?? You are in the SAFEST profession to DO the transition !! Read Jenny books and Lynn 's website and you 'll learn how to do it , step by step .
end question
start question
Does it look bad if I publish an IEEE journal article without " Member , IEEE " next to my name ?
Nope , and I doubt anyone would notice or care . Everyone can be a member , all it takes is a bit of money .
Generally speaking , the name of the person registering does not have to be the same as the name on the credit card . You can pay for your co-author 's registration if you want . the IEEE discount applies if the person registering is an IEEE member , regardless of who is paying . If your co-author is registering to attend the conference , it 's fine for him to use your credit card ( if that 's what you want ) and he can still get the IEEE discount , since he 's an IEEE member . If you 're the one registering to attend the conference , you ca n't get the discount if you 're not an IEEE member .
The question is : is this possible ? If you have signed over the copyright of your paper to this journal , or given them an irrevocable license to distribute , then they do n't have to take down the paper just because you have asked them . In fact , if they are a reputable journal and the paper has already been published , they should n't just take down the paper without a very good reason , because that would distort the scientific record . and what is consequences for submitting the same manuscript to another journal ? Submitting a manuscript to a journal that is already published in another journal is called " duplicate publication " , and it is considered a kind of research misconduct . Consequences can include <URL> , being banned from submitting papers to that journal for some period of time , or <URL> for some period of time .
You could write something like the following . Short and sweet . To the editor , Please find attached an article for consideration for publication in the journal Phytoneuron . I assert that this is an original contribution and it has not been submitted for consideration elsewhere . Could you please acknowledge receipt of this submission ? Best regards , Your name Your Affiliation Title of Article Authors Abstract Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipiscing elit . Proin egestas odio non mi mattis rhoncus . Vivamus ultrices urna a ante tristique pellentesque . Nam tincidunt lacus a mi sollicitudin tincidunt . Curabitur malesuada , quam sit amet iaculis lobortis , enim lacus commodo turpis , nec elementum mauris libero ac enim . Quisque justo mauris , eleifend id ornare vel , luctus eget tellus . Etiam auctor ultrices tincidunt . Curabitur diam nulla , aliquam nec gravida a , consequat non nulla . Cras viverra massa id felis blandit gravida . Pellentesque enim mi , convallis vitae ornare quis , ornare sit amet dolor . Pellentesque velit urna , feugiat non tincidunt in , sollicitudin sed purus . Phasellus laoreet ligula nec odio mattis fringilla . Fusce sed arcu mi . Pellentesque dictum erat sit amet sapien pharetra porta .
You definitely submit a paper by yourself and if you write a high quality submission , it will be accepted . When I was early in my research career I found it very helpful to have a collaborator such as a teacher/professor or a postdoc student with publishing experience to collaborate on papers . This often helps catching points or issues that you may overlook within your research as well as providing advice and guidance .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
With the submission management systems of most journals , it will be an incredibly obnoxious hassle for the editors to support a double-blind review if the journal 's policy is normally single-blind review . The reason is that , even if you remove names from the manuscript , most review systems present the reviewers with all of the key meta-data about the paper , including the author identities . This information is tied to author accounts in the system , the paper production and publication process for accepted papers , and possibly also external systems such as <URL> . This is configured right into the software , so the only method most editors would have for supporting double-blind would be to have the authors create pseudonymous accounts and then later work with the production staff to manually intervene and change all of the metadata ( likely screwing up their records as well ) before the paper actually appeared . Thus , given the degree of hassle and problems involved , I would expect most editors to refuse without some sort of exceedingly unusual extenuating circumstance . You can always ask politely , of course , but you should expect the answer to be no .
There are sometimes " remark " blocks that some authors use for discussing aspects that are of substantial interest to some readers but do not strictly belong to the core of the story that you are telling . If you are preparing your document with LaTeX , then such text blocks are called " environments " . An example is given in the Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science <URL> , page 4 at the bottom .
Publishing things that you know are erroneous is a good way to get a really bad scientific reputation . Depending on how severe it is , it might go so far as to be labelled fraud and formally sanctioned , basically killing your career . If it 's important , then yes , you need to fix it . If it 's not published yet , then fix it before you publish it . If it 's published , then you will need to submit a correction or possibly even a retraction . Good scientists do this , and <URL> .
You appear to be confusing together two different issues : open-access vs. paywalled and printed vs. electronic . Let us start with printed vs. electronic : the difference between a article available electronically vs. an article available only in print is that the article available electronically will be read and a paper article generally will not . With a very small number of exceptions , for the most part electronic access is the means by which scientists access journal articles these days . If they journal is not open access , then the researcher will be using an institutional subscription . Now , as for open access vs. paywalled : some studies have shown that open access articles tend to be read and cited more than paywalled articles in similar quality journals . For both open access and paywalled articles , however , the primary determinant in how they are viewed is the quality of the journal in which they are published , and in both cases there are excellent journals and terrible journals .
I 've had great experience with Google Scholar Alerts . To use them , go to scholar.google.com and search for any term . In the results page , you will see a link to . Click on that and create the alert to send you notifications . One very good use of this is to follow specific papers . For example , I have a star paper of mine that I 'm currently extending and I like to keep track of who is citing this paper . So , I search for the paper on scholar . In the results page ( just under the result for the paper I 'm concerned with ) , there 's a link . Click on that and you get results for only those papers that cite this article . Now , create an alert on this page . This way , whenever someone refers to this paper ( and Google finds out about it ) , you get an email . Do this for all the important literature in your field and Alerts will make sure you are kept abreast of your field . Never miss out on an important finding !
Nope , and I doubt anyone would notice or care . Everyone can be a member , all it takes is a bit of money .
It depends on the field , and in particular on the venue in which you are publishing . It 's possible that some journals and conferences might have policies about this , which would of course override anything you read here . But in general : nobody checks ( or cares ) whether the name you put on a published paper matches your official name . So if you use an informal variant of your name , e.g. if your name is " Stephen " but you publish as " Steve " , nobody will bat an eyelid . If you use a nickname or publish under a pseudonym , it would be a little odd if the nickname is something that sounds very informal , but still , it probably wo n't cause problems . What people do care about is building a record of your work , and putting a face to the name if they know your face . So you should ( 1 ) be consistent with the name you use to publish , and ( 2 ) make sure other people in the field know that it refers to you .
If it 's just the first name , cite the work as being authored by a mononymic person . Author names in text are virtually always ( a ) full name , ( b ) initials + last name , or ( c ) just last name . The consistent use of a first name only , along with an entry in the works cited whose author has that name and that name alone , will make it clear that you are a different person ( especially if you actually do quote yourself and have a separate entry , in Last , First format with your works ) . If you still feel that there is the possibility for confusion , upon first mention of the author , insert a footnote or parenthetical statement to clarify the distinction .
This is perfectly acceptable . It is , in fact , fairly common to " upgrade " a white-paper , technical note , or other such non-peer-reviewed publication into a peer-reviewed publication . Two important caveats , however : The appropriate form for a peer-reviewed publication is generally very different than for a blog post or similar informal format . You will likely need to almost entirely rewrite the publication in any case . If the other material is durably available or has been circulated in academic circles previously , however , you should acknowledge this fact and reference the prior publications . This may be in the form of a citation , or in the cover letter of the article , or both .
There are multiple questions that remain unanswered here : Did you meet all of the deadlines for the admissions process ? Did the people who wrote your letters of recommendation send in their references on time ? Did the school promise you a reply-by date ? If so , why did you not contact them at that time ? Did you get an email confirming that the application was complete ? If any of those were missing , then it 's entirely possible that you did n't have a complete application -- in which case , the school is not necessarily required to do anything , because they do n't have a complete record to consider . Moreover , a lawsuit is a horrifically bad idea under the circumstances -- it 's far more time-consuming and expensive than anything you 're going to get back from the school . It 's a waste of your time and money ( unless they rather unlikely made written promises of admission , in which case they may be in bigger legal troubles than just having to return an admission fee ) .
Submitting an academic paper for publication ( and potentially getting it accepted ) does not require any qualifications whatsoever . You do n't need a PhD ; you do n't even need to have gone to college . There are no educational , employment , or membership requirements at all . That 's not to say it 's easy to get a paper accepted with no formal training in the field . Learning how to write a compelling paper is much easier if you have a mentor to offer guidance . However , if you can figure out how to do it without a PhD , then your lack of a PhD will not be held against you .
No , it is not acceptable . You can of course email the organisers and ask if you can participate without paying , but do not be surprised if they say no . ( Please note that conference registration fees cover lots of things besides the lunch . Among others , conference registration fees may cover the rent of the hall in which you are sitting , and expenses related to the speaker who is giving the talk . Conference organisers are definitely not expecting random people to come there without registering , unless they explicitly advertise this possibility . )
Try out several projects in different areas does not necessarily say that you do not know what interests you . You have to show them that you are interested several areas and you wanted to get an insight in order to obtain a wider range of possibilities . I think that there are few people who immediately find the right area that interests them 100 % . It is important that you present it that way . Working on different projects brings more extensive experience in any case . If you have then found the right area for you , you can deal with it more intense .
What field are you in ? In mine ( theoretical computer science ) , conference papers get rejected all the time : the better conferences tend to have acceptance rates of around 25-35 % , and <URL> ( thanks to ff524 for the link ) . It 's easy to judge what the best papers are , and accept those ; it 's easy to judge what the worst papers are , and reject those . For everything in the middle , it very much comes down to how enthusiastic the referees were and whether or not at least one member of the programme committee was willing to stand up and argue for your paper being accepted . Assuming your paper was n't one of the obvious-rejects , there 's a decent chance that , if you resubmitted it unaltered to a different conference of about the same standard , it would get accepted . Hopefully , the referee reports made some constructive comments so you can improve the paper before resubmitting it , and have an even better chance . ( Note that I would n't recommend resubmitting unaltered , unless you got no useful advice at all from the referees . As Paul Garrett points out in the comments , it 's not unusual for at least one of the same referees to see the paper next time it 's submitted and it 's rather irksome to see one 's advice ignored . )
end question
start question
Are PhD scholarships and assistantships taxable ?
Taxation does depend very much on the country , as well as the type of award you receive . The amounts similarly vary from nation to nation . To give two examples : In the US , scholarships and fellowship stipends are taxed as ordinary income . However , in some cases , for externally funded awards , you need to be careful , as the university might not withhold taxes . In that case , however , you would need to make estimated tax payments , as you are still responsible for paying the tax " on time ! " Do n't forget that your tax burden may also include state and local income taxes , depending on where you live . Making matters even more complicated , cost of living fluctuates wildly : you 're probably better off with a $ 25,000 award in the midwest than a $ 35,000 or $ 40,000 award in New York City . In other countries , the system can vary . In Germany , for instance , graduate fellowships are not taxed , while " standard " graduate positions , which are considered employees of the state , are taxed . At the same time , however , people receiving the taxed positions receive health benefits and pay into the social security system . Stipend recipients are responsible for their own health insurance , and do not accrue time in the social security system .
As a person who has hired quite a few people in industry , I will simply say that advanced areas ( or even areas that are perceived to be advanced ) often see PhDs being preferable . In this respect I completely agree with Bitwise . I do not , however , agree that you might earn less . Those with sought-after skills get paid well in industry . It is about supply and demand but supply ( people who can do the job ) is not high and demand is growing . Machine-learning is hot in the business literature . That is , managers are becoming well informed about the potentials of machine-learning and they are becoming worried that the only way they can compete for the long-term is by taking advantage of this area . While lower-level programming jobs might not see any benefit from higher qualifications , areas like machine-learning are not seen as lower-level . To answer your main question , are there pitfalls of having a PhD if you want a job in industry ? The answer is no . I am unaware of anyone who has ever thought lower of a job candidate because they have a PhD . Yes , you could get a job without one but for your areas of interest , a PhD will give you lots of advantage when it comes to getting job offers .
It depends on the differences between the MS and the PhD . PhD programs are always research programs , so your statement of purpose is going to testify to your preparation for undertaking scholarship , your research interests , and your fit with the program in a research context . You 'll name specific professors whose research interests align with yours ; you might list some resources ( like labs , archives , libraries , etc. ) that the university has that make it a good fit for your work . Some students choose to say a little about their career goals and how the program will help you towards them , but there 's really no need - if you 're applying for a PhD program , professors will assume you want a research career ( probably in academia ) . If you are applying to a research-based MS that is designed to prepare scholars for further PhD student or for research-oriented careers , your statement probably wo n't be much different than a PhD statement . It may be advantageous to state that you want a research career and a PhD eventually for MS programs that explicitly state that they exist primarily to prepare students for the PhD . However , if you are applying for a professional MS program , your statement will be a bit different . You still want to talk about experiences you 've had that have prepared you for graduate study , but in addition to talking about research and some coursework , you also may want to mention professional non-academic prep ( like work experience , internships , maybe even extracurriculars if they are highly relevant ) . You can still mention professors and research interests if you want , but it 's not necessary . Instead , in the tailoring paragraph , you 'll focus more on other resources that the university has - like close ties with employers , a co-op program , a specialization in your area , etc. . And you 'll want to close with a short statement about your career goals and how you think the program can help you reach those . When I applied for graduate school , I applied to both PhD programs and master 's programs in my field that were mostly for professional preparation . I used essentially the same template for both kinds of programs , but I put a little more emphasis on non-research resources at the prospective program and career preparation in the master 's statements .
In general , an editor will choose to issue a retraction when misbehavior or errors undermine the " core " of a paper ( authors may request a retraction , but ultimately it is generally the editor who decides ) . An erratum or correction , on the other hand , is for when there is a problem that does n't change the " core " of the paper . Different editors will draw the boundary differently , and some things are in a grey area . In this case , it looks like reuse of background material ( a grey area on self-plagiarism ) shaded over into plagiarism from another closely related piece . In most cases plagiarism , even of a background section , would be enough for a paper to be retracted due to the issue of dishonesty , which cases doubt on everything else in the paper . In this case , however , it appears that given the close relationships between the authors and the papers , the editor judged it less a matter of theft than of sloppiness , and opted for the lesser correction .
Yes , of course . The arXiv staff does n't sit around evaluating the credentials of everyone who submits . They reserve the right to reject even endorsed submissions , but this is unusual . The main obstacle to publishing on the arXiv as an undergraduate is writing a suitable paper and getting it endorsed .
It sounds like , on the whole , you 're in a pretty good place regarding your credentials . Have you checked out the Grad Cafe ? The forums there are a fantastic resources for people in the process of applying .
<URL> directly addresses memberships for NIH : Dues or Membership Fees Allowable as an F&amp;A cost for organizational membership in business , professional , or technical organizations or societies . Payment of dues or membership fees for an individual 's membership in a professional or technical organization is allowable as a fringe benefit or an employee development cost , if paid according to an established organizational policy consistently applied regardless of the source of funds . I agree with your conclusion about books for NSF grants , and their page oddly does n't list information about memberships . I would imagine that it could arguably fall under the section related to conference fees , but that 's conjecture .
I would say that this is one time when taking a year off is not recommended . You are at your peak right now in a number of ways : You have very recent publications and just received your degree . Both have a discernible half-life when it comes to being hired in academia ( particularly for the first time ) . You know the most people in your field , including your advisor and other professors who can write you up-to-date recommendation letters . You have the most current knowledge of your field , and although it sounds like you 're going to continue to publish , you wo n't be as able to actively learn ( then again , I know from your previous posts that you were full-time employed during your PhD , so that may not be an issue ) . I 'm assuming that the timing is different in Australia , but in the U.S. there are generally key times of the year that academic hiring happens -- you put together applications in Nov-Jan and hope to land interviews and talks in the Feb-April time frame . If there is a similar time-frame in Australia , I would make sure you have the time available to put together applications and go on interviews , whether it is this year or after another year . I assume you 'll still be allowed to publish under your previous school 's affiliation post-PhD defense , but if that is n't the case , I would urge you to figure out a way to work that out . Finally ( and I 'm not really in a position to comment directly on this ) is the question about how your job applications will be received with a year gap from academia . My feeling is that an extra paper will help you but that the time away wo n't help you ( even though it is n't technically away it will be noticeable that you got your PhD a year prior ) , and it may be a wash . You 'll have to consider this when you write your cover letters and research statement . I would think about how ( if at all ) you justify the extra year of high school teaching post-PhD in a cover letter . You 've already got plenty of teaching experience under your belt to prove your teaching credentials , so an extra year in the classroom wo n't be beneficial from that standpoint .
Typically , when you put together a C.V. , there is a place for listing the funding that you have obtained , and these would go in that section ( unless they are primarily about the honor and secondarily about the money , in which case they would go in the funding section ) . For the application , if there is nowhere to list these types of funding , then I would list them in this " distinctions and honors " section . These are significant pieces of your history , and should be listed somewhere in your application , and if this is the best fit , well , why not there ?
At least in my field ( mathematics ) , every US PhD program I know of accepts students with a bachelor 's degree . I see no sign of this changing .
A " fake " or " shady " journal is a low-quality journal that does little or no quality control . They are often called " predatory " because they prey on people who are under a lot of pressure to publish , charging high author fees for promises of quick publication . ( Since they do little , if any , peer review , the time from submission of a paper to publication is often very quick in these journals ) . They often engage in deceptive practices to make themselves appear legitimate , such as : Pretending to be affiliated with a reputable professional society Claiming an " impact factor " when they do not have one , or when they have an " impact factor " from some entity other than Thomson Reuters ISI Listing important academics on their editorial board , when these people never agreed to serve in this capacity . Publishing in one of these journals can be very damaging to your academic career . At best , it shows that you do n't know what journals are considered reputable in your field ; at worst , it makes you look like you are trying to " get " publications without doing the work required to publish in a reputable , high-quality journal . An academic librarian named Jeffrey Beall keeps a list of open-access <URL> and <URL> that he considers to be " predatory . " His lists are quite well-known - you may hear people refer to " Beall 's List " when talking about predatory journals . Between the growth of open-access and the Internet making it possible for literally anyone to start a " journal , " these " journals " have been popping up at an alarming rate . The NY Times even ran a <URL> about it recently .
Pros : If one supervisor gets <URL> , you still have a second supervisor who is familiar with your work and can thus give constructive comments on it , hopefully appreciate it and in particular evaluate it . Often , your supervisor is the only person at your university who is actually capable of fully understanding and properly judging your thesis and defense . If one supervisor turns bad or turns out to be bad and for example gives bad advice , makes ridiculous demands or even expects you to do questionable things , you can still turn to the other supervisor for advice or to have a serious word with the bad supervisor . If the relationship to the bad advisor goes totally awry , you may have the option to drop them and be supervised by the other supervisor alone . It depends : You may be expected to do more or less work . For example , if you are doing an interdisciplinary work and have one supervisor from each discipline , the supervisors may only understand and value the work you do in their respective half and thus think that you did not do enough . On the other hand , they may also overestimate the work in the respective other half and thus be more easily satisfied . You can benefit from the experience of both supervisors and learn something from one advisor that you can not learn from the other . Cons : You may be affected by disputes between the supervisors . For example the first supervisor may tell you to do something in a certain way and then the second supervisor blames you for it . If aspects of your work require input from both advisors , you may need to wait not only for one supervisor to have time for you but for two . This is in particular difficult , if you need to talk about something with both your supervisors at the same time . Some of the above obviously depends on the details of the relationships between your supervisors and the reason for the co-supervision . Thus , you can only judge yourself , if these points apply to your case and how important they are for you .
You 're asking multiple questions at once , so let 's start with : What are the differences between a research paper and a patent There are many , but briefly a research paper has the purpose of communicating research findings to the relevant scientific community and the general public . Patents are legal documents used to prevent other people from commercializing the process or devices they describe . Research papers typically report results of a scientific process , whether experimental or not , while patents describe processes and devices along with their respective intended applications . Patents are typically very open-ended , not unlike a very long " future works " - section of an academic paper . The strategy is to cover a maximum of possible usages for the technology . it is not peer reviewed That is correct , peer review is a strategy used by researchers to filter , improve , and curate scientific literature . For patents , the review is driven by the legal requirements only . A major point is absence of overlap with existing patents and other publicly available material * . In some regions , a minimal demonstration of how the process/device works is expected by patent offices , but it 's not the same as peer review . Is it allowed to publish patent and then paper ? Yes , it 's the other way that 's problematic because as stated above , if you ( or someone else ) published a paper about your process or device you can not patent it anymore . Most journals are interested in novel results and all ( legitimate ) journals do n't want to re-publish existing literature but the fact that the processes are patented is not an issue . As stated in my first paragraph , both documents should have very little overlap . * On that subject , see the entertaining if not entirely historically accurate <URL>
paper = article : In the academic meaning of the words , papers and articles refer to the same thing : a published piece of writing . The term is used for journal papers or journal articles , which means they have been published by a journal , but also for less traditional publications , including self-publication ( " Dr. Who just published a great paper on the intricacies of time travel on his webpage " ) and e-print repositories such as arXiv ( " check out the latest paper by Galileo on arXiv , that guy has mad ideas ! " ) . Some journals have different categories of " articles " , and differentiate between letters , communications , reports , reviews , and full papers ( sometimes abbreviated as just " papers " ) . In usage I have seen , paper ( or article ) used as a generic term covers all of those : you would say , for example , that " letters and full papers are two types of articles " . A preprint ( more commonly used without the hyphen ) refers to the distribution , in advance of formal publication , of something that will be published in print . The preprint may differ from the final publication . Preprint status does not always indicate that the work has been formally accepted for publication . It just means the authors intend to publish it in a more formal venue ( journal , book , etc. ) but wanted to distribute by other means beforehand ( preprints used to be distributed to colleagues as photocopies , but are now mostly circulated by email or repositories ) . A manuscript is , in the New Oxford American Dictionary 's words , " an author 's text that has not yet been published " . Any piece of writing that you have not published in any way ( but intend to ) is a manuscript . A draft is the same as a manuscript , except that it insists on the unfinished state of the manuscript . Summarizing , I could say : Here 's the draft I 've been working on , please amend it with your corrections . Once we have done this final round of revision , I will upload the manuscript to the editor 's website , and we can start circulating it as a preprint to colleagues whom you think may be interested . Once it is accepted and published , we 'll just send them the published version of the paper for their records .
I would imagine this may vary from field to field , but in the biological sciences the caption text in journal publications is often verbose to the point of absurdity . That being said , I would simply use common sense ; If the description takes more than a paragraph , you should definitely " refer to text " . Generally speaking , the caption is simply a textual guide as to how to read the plot , with ( maybe ) a sentence drawing the reader 's attention to a particular feature of the plot . It should mostly describe the plot , and only sparingly discuss it .
To the host country : Positive : A host country that is able to import top talent from other countries has a greater chance of keeping them in the country after graduation . This , undoubtedly , is an effort to promote national interests in a specific field ( typically , scientific ) . Often , importing students to to do research is low cost ( in comparison to hiring full time scientists or professors ) and typically yields lots of deliverables ( e.g. research papers ) in a short time . Negative : A host country takes a lot of risks when it invests in a foreign student . There no guarantee that student even graduates , much less that he/she remains in the country after graduation , or in any way promotes the host country 's national interests . To the home country : Positive : A home country that can produce top talent gains a reputation international level for its education system ( for better or worse , regardless of whether this is actually true or not ) . Negative : A home country has the potential to lose its top talent to other countries , which is often counterproductive to its national interests ( especially scientific interests ) . In addition to the countries , i feel it is important to discuss the benefits and risks that this presents to the student as well : To the student : Positive : The student can gain a high quality education , typically with no strings attached . When they graduate , they are free to choose their destiny ( assuming that they even have the option of staying in their host country ) . Negative : The student effectively becomes low-wage , indentured migrant labor to the host institution . Students are often not promised jobs or citizenship in their host country , but are often led to believe that " it is possible if you work hard enough " . This will often lead to foreign students out performing their domestic counterparts , but sadly offers little pay , benefits , or guarantees to the foreign student . As J.J. points out , if a foreign student screws up in some way , they lose ( potentially ) their only chance of a better life outside of their home country .
In your original question , " referred journal " is a <URL> , perhaps on your part . Refereed journals/conferences are the ones where the published papers have been peer-reviewed .
With regard to choosing to do your PhD research with a group working in your field of interest : - Benefits : In-depth subject specific knowledge , meaning that : You will get started faster . Your early mistakes and false leads identified and corrected earlier . You will get a faster entree into the best collaborative networks . You will get noticed by the community faster . You will be associated with experts in the field . Disadvantages : Depending on the supervisor , you might get rail-roaded into doing the science his/her " way " , leaving less opportunity for you to strike out on your own path . You are dealing with a new advisor , and that relationship takes time to cultivate . For your situation , it seems that you will have to get a source of funding .
You 're not obligated to tell them . Whether you tell them or not would be unlikely to have an impact on your future either . They 're probably not going to track you down and find you , and would mostly use the information to improve recruitment in the future . Imagine if you told them you chose University X instead because you had family there and it was easier to secure housing . That 's a sound reason , and unlikely to cause any sort of mark in the off chance they were tracking you . I would try to avoid saying anything bad about the school , though .
Different institutions have different policies on robes for faculty members at graduations , although most will arrange for robes for faculty who do not have their own . However , if you take advantage of this option , you might not get much choice in your regalia - so if the institution that you are graduating from has its own particular design for regalia that you love , it might be worth getting your own . I have heard that there are institutions who will require that all faculty members wear the same design of regalia for graduation ceremonies , in which case spending a lot of money on a non-traditional set - which you then can not wear at commencements - would be less than optimal . Since you have an assistant professor job lined up , you could just ask someone at your new institution what the policies are there .
end question
start question
I have found theses on a similar subject to my own , and want to use their references with my own text and a similar flow . Is this plagiarism ?
You can do this : " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] anaylsed the works of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] using some_method and found that their_conclusion . However the evidence can also be interpreted to show your_conclusion . or this " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] states ' direct quote of the thesis ' in their analysis of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] . " Either way you need to make it obvious that the conclusions are drawn from someone else 's work , and that the references are only those required to support the points and arguments that you are making . As @ff524 said this is your theses for your research project , so you are going to have to find , evaluate , discuss and defend your sources .
If I have already appeared for GRE Subject Test for Computer Science , do I still need to take the general GRE test ? Short answer : Likely , yes . If your school asks for the general GRE , then you need to take it . Without the general GRE scores , your application would not be considered complete , and , thus , may never get forwarded to the department 's admissions committee . If in doubt , call or email the department ( s ) you are applying to and ask . Which test should I take first ( general GRE/GRE Subject Test ) and why ? It does not matter . Usually the general GRE is offered more frequently than the subject GREs , so many people take it first . There is no reason you have to do it this way . Take them in an order that is convenient for you , but do not wait until just before your application deadlines . Your scores will not get to your schools in time .
I do n't see why your supervisor would be concerned about it , especially if it is relevant for your current research . But , to be sure , let them know about your previous work and emphasise how it is relevant ( and its importance ) to your current work . When you use your paper , make sure that you cite it as you would any paper .
You can do this : " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] anaylsed the works of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] using some_method and found that their_conclusion . However the evidence can also be interpreted to show your_conclusion . or this " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] states ' direct quote of the thesis ' in their analysis of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] . " Either way you need to make it obvious that the conclusions are drawn from someone else 's work , and that the references are only those required to support the points and arguments that you are making . As @ff524 said this is your theses for your research project , so you are going to have to find , evaluate , discuss and defend your sources .
Some of the obvious ones : The <URL> initiative wants to assign unique identifiers to all " creators " . ( They take authors in the broad sense of individuals generating copyrightable content or something like that , since they include musicians and others . ) That is about as " general " as you can want . If you want to restrict to Academia , the <URL> is not specifically field-specific , though it is limited to fields which have an arXiv presence . Since you did n't specify what is required of a " researcher digital identification service " , social networks such as Academia.edu and ResearchGate which you <URL> can also serve the purpose of disambiguation of publishing records . Certain countries maintain their own databases of researchers residing there . The most comprehensive and successful seems to be that of <URL> . The American Mathematical Society has recently starting maintaining <URL> as part of their MathSciNet service ( I know that the question asked for " not field-specific " ; I 'll weasel and say that the AMS profiles include also those working in related sciences to mathematics , such as physicists and computer scientists , and some engineers . ) For a list of some of the other services , the <URL> has a slightly out-dated list of such services . Note however some of the items listed there have stalled and shutdown since the last edit .
It is possible to get second masters degree in a similar or related field . Doing so might even help with getting into a top PhD program . That said , where you did your master ( s ) degrees is not the key to the kingdom or even the most important thing in your PhD application . Demonstrating that you are smart , hardworking , and excellent at research should be your goal . Another masters from a " better " University might help toward that end but it 's hardly the only or best way . Focus on doing excellent research , publishing that work in excellent scholarly venues in your field , and getting excellent letters of recommendation from people that are known and respected in the field . If you do those things , and if you also have good grades and test scores , you 'll be a strong candidate for any PhD program . I have seen people build that portfolio as an undergrad , in a masters program , as research staff at a university , or even in industry . What you do matters at least as much as where you do it .
If the goal of your parents for you really is that you become the next Steve Jobs , Sergey Brin , or Mark Zuckerberg , then letting you go to graduate studies and letting you hang with all the other smart people is certainly more useful than telling you to " start getting rich now " . This is akin to wanting to raise an Olympian athlete , and , rather than making him train , shouting at him that he needs to run faster right now . Of course the assumption that any specific person will break through and get super-rich is unrealistic to the point of being ridiculous , but obviously it will be hard to convince your parents of that ( at least short-term ) , so you may need to work with what you got . While the idea of Nox is generally useful ( find statistics and show them ) , it sounds like your parents may be the type for which statistics are too abstract and would probably not work very well . Rather , you can try convincing them with anecdotes of well-educated people who " made it " ( became rich , to use the terminology of the question ) . Of those there are many - opposite to popular opinion , most startup founders etc. are not random people off the streets who were selling sandwiches before breaking through . Rather , most greatly successful ideas and companies have been developed by people with degrees from top universities in , yes , math and science . There is a reason why Silicon Valley is in the Bay Area , and it 's likely not the weather . Concrete examples include : The company Google sprung out of a research project by Sergey Brin and Larry Page , two Stanford graduate students . Sergey is now the 18th-richest person in the world . Facebook was not a research project , but ( at least so the story goes ) the original ideas have been developed by Mark Zuckerberg in a dormitory in Harvard in discussion with other students in breaks between computer science classes . Bill Gates never finished , but even the founder and long-time CEO of Microsoft was in Harvard for some time . Incidentally , there he met Steve Ballmer , who became CEO of Microsoft after Gates - another case of a very wealthy and important person who happens to have great education .
With the hopefully obvious caveat that I 'm not a lawyer and this is not legal advice : at least in the US , this is probably fine . Copyright law ( <URL> ) applies to " original works of authorship , " not to ideas , and I think everyone would agree the metadata of an article 's publication ( including journal name , author , and date ) fall in the latter category , not the former . Otherwise the whole system of academic citation would be untenable ! The title and abstract , on the other hand , are content created by the articles ' authors and are protected by copyright law , but I think it 's quite likely that fair use ( <URL> ) protects you from being held liable for using them in the manner you describe . With reference to the four conditions to be considered when determining fair use : ( 1 ) the purpose and character of the use , including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes ; You say it 's a free , noncommercial endeavor , so that works in your favor ( 2 ) the nature of the copyrighted work ; It 's an academic article ; the whole purpose of its existence is to be widely disseminated ( 3 ) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole The title and abstract are a small part of the work ( 4 ) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work Using the title and abstract in a database like this will more likely increase the market for the original paper than decrease it ( which is in fact the entire point of having an abstract ) In fact , you would hardly be the first person to do something like this . In high energy physics , <URL> already aggregates abstracts and metadata from nearly all published papers .
Not at all . You are not committed to doing your PhD with the same advisor . Even if you did want to work with the same advisor , he/she should encourage that you talk to others to hear out their ideas . I highly doubt your advisor would be offended to hear that you were interested in speaking to other professors about their research interests . After all , a PhD is a long road , and you need to be really happy with your advisor , and your work , to survive it . In fact , I think it looks positive , even to your advisor , knowing that you have multiple options . I once had a job interview where , upon disclosing that I was also interviewing at other places , that " they would be worried if I was n't " .
It will be much easier for you to learn German to conversational level than all of your co-workers learn English . Even if they are some-what able to talk in English , conversational English is actually pretty tough , whilst German is pretty structured and easy once you know the rules ( and the many exceptions ;) ) More importantly , you moved to Germany . Whilst English is expected of all Scientists , there is probably more of an expectation in your lab that you will , eventually , learn German . Personally , I would tell everyone you are going to German classes on Monday mornings , etc , and that should not only fix this issue , but also give you a positive perception among your co-workers as someone who is a fixer . Also , speaking from experience as someone who did n't take their own advice when doing a PhD in Germany - if you dumb-down your English for non-native ears , you very quickly find yourself not being able to speak English with natives . Whenever i go back home my parents think I have some kind of brain damage ...
Damien Igoe 's answer is very accurate , however , I would add that I think it is possible to interpret what someone wrote in a different way than others have previously interpreted . However , your arguments should not be confused with the other authors ' arguments . Originality in analysis is often welcomed . However , originality in structure should be done very carefully . Common structures exist for a reason . In my field , it is common to switch between the reviewed author 's points and your own : Jones ( 1991 ) claimed that the primary motivator for workers was public recognition while Smith ( 2004 ) believed that workers were more concerned with monetary compensation . I will show that both were correct by showing that workers really care most about their compensation being publicly higher than the average for their position .
Scholar.Google.com , IEEE , and ACM After every major conference in your field . See 1 , find a paper , then follow its references and the papers that cite it . Repeat .
I think it is perfectly reasonable to expect a timely response , however it seems to be the case that many graduate schools are overwhelmed with applications and underestimate the time it takes to deal with them . A slightly more cynical view would be that many graduate school admin departments are understaffed and do n't have the resources to cater for expected number of applicants . In my case I submitted my application on 28 Feb and was informed that interviews would take place " during the week of the 19 March " . This date came and went and I assumed I had not been successful , so I called the Faculty Graduate Office the following week and was informed that the process was taking longer than expected but I would be notified of the status in due course . On 5 April I received an email saying I had been selected for interview and " we will contact you shortly with an interview date and time " . On 25 April I was given the interview date ( for the middle of May ) . I would recommend that you just call them and ask to know the status .
There are of course no laws against it but as Editor-in-Chief ( EiC ) myself I would never do ( or at least think twice about doing ) it , particularly not as first author . My reasoning behind this is that it could reflect badly on both me but particularly the journal and send signals that all is not necessarily well . I have to point out that in my case we are two and we have an agreement that we do not touch manuscripts from our own spheres of influence ( basically departments ) . Nevertheless , what actually happens within a journal and how people perceive it are two different things and it is my opinion that as EiC one must safeguard the journals reputation as objective . So if the community expresses some form of trust in the editor to publishing in their own journal this could be perfectly fine . So when an EiC publishes in " their " journal it is not wrong but potentially " dangerous " and can be perceived as poor judgement . They would jeoparize the journals reputation . So even if thetre is no legal problems there are ethical problems . I doubt anyone would have second thoughts about the quality of a journal if the editor does not publish there , after all if the editor has a solid reputation , associating with a bad journal would jeopardize that . Can I see any exceptions ? Well , co-authorship may be less serious but in the end even that should be avoided . I also think that if an editor publishes a single paper in a thematic issue of the journal ( where someone else has suggested a theme ) and this is the only paper by that editor in the journal for years , I would not think much about it . Obviously frequency of publications is also a factor . So , in conclusion , I consider it unwise under most circumstances .
Google Scholar profiles are not transferable . But you can delete the Google Scholar profile from your own account . Then create a new profile while signed in to your advisor 's account . To delete the Scholar profile from your own account , go to <URL> and click on " Settings " : then click on " Account " : then click on " Delete or recover your Scholar account . " There , you 'll have to affirm that you are sure you 'd like to delete the account , and that you understand you have 30 days to change your mind . Check all the boxes , then click " Delete account " :
the fact that I had a chance to go to the competition is one of my competitive points . How can I write that down on my CV ? You almost wrote down exactly what you need . was selected to go to SPO , [ ... which is an accomplishment why ? ] an extremely selective program admitting only [ top X % of , Y hundred , etc. ] physics students nationwide And it 's always fine to say " placed in the top 1/2 of students " if true . Just from a resume writing standpoint anything worse than top 1/2 would n't add value to include . As an aside , you are completely right that this is huge lauds . In high school I placed # 8 in a similar state-wide competition . What if the top 10 were invited for an even more competitive competition and I came darn near in last ? Do n't fall for the Russian doll effect which more or less just tells you you 're not # 1 in the world ( ... but even the best undergraduate programs admit more than one physics student ! ) Obviously the admission would be an accomplishment . Quantification is important . Numbers are best for a corporate resume , but perhaps just establishing the prestige of SPO is sufficient . Check their website for info on how prestigious it is to participate . Perhaps they have recognition from the U.S. President or something - whatever it is they 'll be sure to brag about it somewhere . If the reviewer does not know of SPO , they will have no way to tell this is n't just an email list with 30 students submitting problems and answers with a leader board .
It is not a question of ethics , it is a question about being courteous . Reviewers spend time to read and comment on your manuscript . Regardless of the type of comments you receive there will be significant voluntary work involved . It is only fair to show some gratitude . One way to think about this is that it is no different from any other type of professional correspondence .
Yeah , copying 25 % of a prior paper without attribution is definitely self-plagiarism . Report it to the program chairs of the conference , and let them sort out how to manage the problem from there . Additional information , for any coming from different publication cultures : electrical engineering / computer science conferences are serious publications that take originality very seriously , and <URL> on the matter is quite explicit .
It does n't matter if the material is promotional or not . It does n't matter if the material is freely available or not . What matters is copyright . You have to ask if you want to use copyrighted material . On a different note , the company may really be unhappy if you use a screenshot which might be of bad quality ( at least it 's a pixel image ) instead of a high quality , tailor made ( possibly vector graphics ) image for that purpose .
I may have an unusual perspective on this , since many mathematics Ph.D. programs in the U.S. fund all their students ( at least through teaching ) . In this context , I 'd recommend against even mentioning the possibility of self-funding : It sounds unconfident , like you do n't expect to receive funding , and this is not a positive impression to convey . You do n't want to give the impression that you feel your own application is subpar , and that you 're bargaining to try to turn a rejection into an unfunded acceptance . This might be a reasonable approach at the end of the process , if you 're stuck on a waiting list , but it 's a problematic way to begin . Letting Ph.D. students go into debt feels exploitative , especially in a program in which most or all of the other students are funded , and letting wealthy people buy their way into graduate school is also troubling . There will be worries about how sustainable your self-funding is . In a year or two , your money or willingness to go into debt may run out , and the department would have to choose whether to come up with money for you or kick you out . That 's an unpleasant choice , and the admissions committee may even worry that you are deliberately aiming for this situation ( in the hope that they wo n't be willing to kick you out once you 've joined the department ) . In the sort of programs I 'm familiar with , announcing in advance that you would be willing to self-fund a Ph.D. wo n't increase your chances of admission . I 've only seen this come up very rarely , and the admissions committee has simply ignored the offer of self-funding and made a decision of acceptance with funding or rejection . I can easily imagine that it could decrease the chances of admission a little , although I have n't seen a clear-cut case of that . By contrast , if you are awarded a prestigious fellowship with guaranteed funding for a certain number of years , you should certainly make sure admissions committees know about it . That does n't have any of these disadvantages . However , it 's not in your best interests to offer to pay your own way unless that 's a common and respected approach in your field .
end question
start question
How should I cite a website URL ?
I suppose the easiest way would be to use the command in LaTeX . Put something like this before your : Use it as follows . If you want to change the reference to a citation or another format , you can replace the contents of the As far as to " What is the best way to cite a website URL ? " the answer generally is that there is n't a standard . Personally , I use web sites as a citation if it contributes some kind of important intellectual argument to the paper . If I use web sites as a footnote , it 's because it has to do with some kind of tool I used and is there simply to inform the user that I used Tool XYZ . Using your example , if I said in my paper , " We used the Google search engine to identify evidence of bias in search engine results " I 'd probably put that as a footnote , whereas if I said , " Company web sites from Google , Microsoft , and Apple about employment all state that having fun at work is important " may be citations . ( I should finally note that this is a personal convention rather than anything spelled out in a styleguide , but maybe it helps you ? ) .
Elaborating slightly on David Richerby 's answer : cite the paper with the authors in the same order that they appear in the original . Never reorder them for any reason . The simplest reason for this is that people will expect that your citation matches the original author ordering . If the original paper has authors in the order A , B , C , D , and you cite it with authors B , D , C , A , a reader is going to think you are talking about a different paper by the same people , in which B was listed as the first author . They will probably figure it out eventually , but confusion will occur in the meantime . For a deeper reason , there are two possible reasons why the authors wrote their names in the order A , B , C , D : They made a decision that A should be considered the " first author " , perhaps because A had the original idea or did most of the work . They made a decision to list their names alphabetically , so that nobody would be " first author " . This implies that they believe that all of them contributed ( approximately ) equally to the paper . In either case , you should respect their decision . If you change the author ordering , it makes it seem like you are second-guessing their decision , as if you know better than the authors who did what on the paper . This will come across as arrogant and disrespectful . You ca n't assume that the person who presented a paper at a conference is the one who did the most work on it . Maybe A did the most work but could n't attend the conference for some reason . Maybe they all did the same amount of work , but B really wanted to give the talk and so they agreed to let him . You also should n't assume that the professor of a workgroup is the one who deserves the most credit for a paper . In many cases , the most senior person on a paper is the one who is least involved in its details ( because they are dividing their time between many different projects ) . So if the paper lists the authors as A , B , C , D , cite it as ABCD . Some people think the use of et al is problematic , especially for alphabetically ordered papers , but if you must use it , cite as " A et al. "
I have a confession to make : some of my citations use fake page numbers . Why do I do this ? Because sometimes there just are n't any page numbers or I can not find the page numbers for a document with any reasonable amount of searching . This happens especially often to me with computer science papers , where some venues just do n't bother . Online journals also often have unusual approaches to page numbering , sometimes giving a DOI-like token rather than a number . In other cases , such as some book chapters , there are page numbers , but the versions accessible online are n't marked with them . My preference in these cases is simply to omit the page numbers : citations are about information accessibility , and if the page numbers are n't a meaningful part of accessing that information , then I see no point in trying to fit the citation onto that particular <URL> . Occasionally , though , a journal with a particularly zealous and inflexible copyeditor will force me to add page numbers to things that do n't have page numbers , and that is when I use fake page numbers , simply numbering an N-page document as pages 1-N . Bottom line : do n't sweat the page numbers , much less the volume number .
Just because it 's not published does n't preclude being able to cite it . You ca n't not cite the thesis if you 're taking information from it ! The degree-granting institution should perpetually retain copies in its library , and most universities these days store PDF copies as well . A copy may be harder to track down , but a determined reader should have no enormous difficulty in getting a copy of the thesis . Example : Smith B. ( 2013 ) , General Relativity , MSc thesis , University of Cambridge , UK .
It is commonly called Kinect V1 and V2 . In the research community , it is widely accepted , just because it is their name , <URL> here . Note that it is not the true name , as you stated . The best thing I could think of , is to highlight at the beginning of your article ( or in the part you spoke about Kinect ) that Kinect V1 refers to Kinect for XBox 360 and Kinect V2 refers to Kinect for XBox One ( note there is a standalone version for Windows ) .
In your example , you are citing the chapter author 's work , not the work of the compiler/editor of the book as a whole . According to the APA Publication Manual , use the following reference format for this situation . Author , A.A. ( 1967 ) Title of chapter or entry . In A. Editor &amp; B. Editor ( Eds . ) , Title of book ( pp . xxx-xxx ) . Location : Publisher Of course , your intext citation would reference the chapter author too , not the book author/editor . The same general format holds for other reference styles as well .
If this section of the thesis contains only the translated passage , then it is silly to use one of the quotation notifiers . As I said in my comment , preface the whole section with a notice about the origin of the passage . Then , present the passage unaltered ( except for the translation ) . The contents of that notice will depend on which of the following categories the original passage falls into : Public domain The original passage is in the public domain ( for example if it was written by a government employee in the course of their normal duties or if the author released into the public domain or if the passage is old enough that any possible copyright has expired ) - then say something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without any further alterations from ( original source ) . This passage is in the public domain ( rationale if possible ) . Fair Use Since a thesis is a document created in the course of obtaining an education , you can claim fair use for educational purposes . The passage represents less than the fair use maximum set for the original document ( typically around 5 % or less of the original work ) , then you can state something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without permission and without any further alterations from ( original source ) . Since this passage represents a minimal part of the original document , it constitutes fair use . Public License The creator of the document could have released the document under a license that allows reuse for non-profit purposes with appropriate attribution . See <URL> and <URL> . Licenses like these generally allow you to reproduce the work if you include the appropriate statement . Make sure the license allows derivative works ( because that is what your translation is ) . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) under the <URL> . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . Express permission If you have obtained written permission from the copyright holder to reproduce the work in your thesis , then you would state something like the following . You should include the evidence of written permission in your appendix . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) with permission of the copyright holder . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . None of the above Without permission , a license , fair use , or public domain , you are violating copyright by reproducing the passage , even if you translated it ( translations count as derivative works , which are still a no-no ) . Get the appropriate permissions or reduce the length of the passage so that it becomes fair use and see above . US Copyright Note that this answer primarily to <URL> , with which I am most familiar . The copyright laws in other nations , as well as international copyright law , will vary , but many have similar provisions . However , some parts of my answer will be inapplicable in some countries . In these cases , behave as if the material is copyrighted . The concepts of public domain , copyright , and license are fairly similar in most places . Generally , the existence of a license supersedes copyright , with the exception that a license can not supersede the public domain status of a work . Fair use may not exist in all jurisdictions . If you are unsure whether your nation has a fair use or similar exception in its copyright law , act as if it does n't . Better safe than sorry .
It is generally sufficient to say explicitly that " in this section we will recall the method X from [ citation ] " , and then simply do it . However , you may find it preferable not to quote equations and text from the original paper , but to adopt it according to the style , notation and message of your own manuscript .
Honestly , in this and at least one other question you are worrying about things that no one on the employer 's side will care about in the least . You do not need to send a thank-you letter to any of your interviewers . If you feel like you made a personal connection with a specific faculty member , you certainly may write an email ( or a letter , or whatever ... ) saying that you enjoyed meeting them / look forward to seeing them again / whatever . Or not : we wo n't care either way . Math departments are not evaluating candidates for their general etiquette . Please remember that : ( i ) We are drawing from a worldwide applicant pool , and there is no such thing as worldwide academic etiquette . We expect that once someone is hired they 'll learn the local ropes . ( ii ) Mathematicians have a reputation for being a bit eccentric / weird / exhibiting non-standard social behaviors . Probably this is somewhat exaggerated , but the truth is that math departments are a great haven for those whose professional competence vastly exceeds their social skills . If you are not too weird , it should not be a problem . Likability is , obviously , a positive , but we are really not running a popularity contest : the gentleman who was pretty quiet at lunch but gave a nice clear talk and has one more strong paper is going to get hired over the life of the party whose talk was a bit fuzzy and whose CV is not quite as strong . The above is centered on research departments . Liberal arts colleges value collegiality more , but they too will make a distinction between someone who is simply socially dexterous versus someone who knows what to do in the very specific , content-related interactions they will have with students . They will not assume that because someone is well-mannered they will be good with students ( or inversely ) : there are people whom I find painfully awkward who are wonderful with students , and students are surprisingly good at seeing the difference here as well .
I was asked to provide my comment as an answer , so here it is . It is yet another way to cite software . However , it requires some effort from the software authors . I developed an Open Source Web tool for modeling and gathering data when following a certain theory/methodology in software engineering . Here is how you would cite it : Graziotin , D and Abrahamsson , P 2013 . A Web-based modeling tool for the SEMAT Essence theory of software engineering . Journal of Open Research Software 1 ( 1 ) : e4 , DOI : <URL> This is possible because I opted to publish a software paper in the <URL> . It is a fully Open Access journal . This journal only accepts software papers on open source software for research . A software paper is a special kind of paper , which describes the software-e.g. , what is it about , implementation and architecture , its availability , and its reuse potential . The editorial process works as in any other research venue , and articles are peer-reviewed . The article processing charges are 25GBP . However , they can be fully waived if you can not afford them . What it is nice with this approach is that researchers have an extra motivation to open their software for research : they get a publication for that , plus citations . Additionally , writing a software paper is far easier than writing a methodology paper . I wrote a <URL> . TL ; DR ; Great experience , go for it .
Instead of including a personal website , why not just include a permanent e-mail address ? Simplest would be just get a Gmail account ( or any free webmail provider ) for your work correspondence . If you want a more professional looking account , sometimes professional organizations can provide to dues-paying members e-mail forwarding services . For example , the American Mathematical Society <URL> . Also , if you have a personal website , maybe you can set up a mailbox under its domain that you use to receive work correspondence ? One other thing you can do is to sign-up for a <URL> so that your publications are properly linked to each other . That way readers may be able to track down your more recent publications and find your contact info there . But to the question you actually asked : I am sure it depends greatly on journal and publisher , so you are much better off asking them than us .
Cite the journal name that was used at the time of publication . For example , the British Medical Journal officially changed title to BMJ in 1988 . Cite articles from 1987 and earlier as Br Med J , not BMJ . ( Source : <URL> . )
Remember the guiding principle of maximum ease in following a reference . If you do n't know which author , cite primarily to the book . From " Book title " , by x , y , and z In fact , even if there is only one author , it is good to cite the book .
What you 're referring to is an indirect source . In general , you should always work as hard as you can to find the original source . If that is not possible , all of the major style guides include a way to cite indirect sources . Note that you should not cite Wikipedia ( see the " do not cite Wikipeida " note at the end of this answer ) . If an indirect citation is absolutely necessary , it should come from a reputable , peer-reviewed journal or other academically respected source . According to <URL> , the MLA rule is to name the author of the indirect source in the text and cite the work you have in-hand : For such indirect quotations , use " qtd . in " to indicate the source you actually consulted . For example : Ravitch argues that high schools are pressured to act as " social service centers , and they do n't do that well " ( qtd . in Weisman 259 ) . Note that , in most cases , a responsible researcher will attempt to find the original source ... <URL> further clarifies that the indirect work should be included in your Works Cited list : ... include the indirect source in the Works Cited . The APA rule ( also from <URL> ) is to exclude the indirect source ( called the " original source " , below ) from your reference list and only include the work you have in-hand ( called the " secondary source " ) : ... name the original source in your signal phrase . List the secondary source in your reference list and include the secondary source in the parentheses . Johnson argued that ... ( as cited in Smith , 2003 , p. 102 ) . [ ... ] Also , try to locate the original material and cite the original source . The Chicago rule ( once again , from <URL> ) is to cite the indirect source , followed by the in-hand resource : ... Chicago discourages the use of [ indirect sources ] . In the case that an original source is utterly unavailable , however , Chicago recommends the use of " quoted in " for the note : Ian Hacking , The Social Construction of What ? ( Cambridge , MA : Harvard University Press , 1999 ) , 103 , quoted in Manuel DeLanda , A New Philosophy of Society ( New York : Continuum , 2006 ) , 2 . That said , do not cite Wikipedia in a formal document ( unless , perhaps , you are actually writing about Wikipedia or collaborative editing techniques ) . I love Wikipedia , and I believe it is reasonably well-maintained and has a lot of good information . However , you have no way to verify if the information in an article is true -- or , if you do have a source to verify it , you would just cite that source . Aside from the tired , " Anyone can edit it ! " complaint , two severe issues with Wikipedia as a citation source are : You get whatever version of an article stands at the exact moment your web browser fetches the page . No matter how hard Wikipedia 's editors work , they ca n't stop a bad edit from reaching your web browser if it was made seconds before you fetched the page . Wikipedia does n't undergo any kind of pre-publication review ; all review is post-publication , which means you may see totally unreviewed information . ( You can mitigate this by citing a specific past revision , but it still stands that a post-publication review process means that any given revision of an article could have claims that have been reviewed by absolutely no one except the author . ) In order for a reader or reviewer to ascertain the usefulness of a source , it must have an identifiable set of authors ( or , for anonymous works , at least a consistent , reasonably small set of authors ) . Wikipedia makes that requirement incredibly difficult to satisfy . ( Again , it 's possible to satisfy this requirement if you cite a specific revision of a page and find out what contributors wrote each part of a page , but it is still difficult since a potentially huge number of contributors have helped build that revision . ) It 's hard for a Wikipedia article to be reputable where there are no clearly identifiable authors to which a reader could attach a reputation .
You can call it a " preprint " if it is ready to circulate , or say that it is " in preparation " if you are working on it but it 's not done yet . ( The difference is whether you would be willing to give interested people a copy now , or whether you would ask them to wait until it 's done . ) Do n't call it " submitted " if that 's not actually true , even if you think it will be submitted by the time anyone sees the reference . Getting caught in even a minor lie can hurt your reputation for honesty , and there are any number of ways something could go wrong in the process of finishing and submitting the paper .
The reasons these journals are called predatory is because they prey on unwary researchers looking for places to publish their work , tricking them into publishing with them rather than in legitimate places . So just because a paper is in a predatory journal does not mean that it is necessarily bad work . However , this paper still needs to be treated with greatly heightened suspicion : it should be assumed that it has not had any peer review , and that the authors are unfamiliar enough with the area and with the normal practices of science that they could be tricked by a predatory journal . Alternately , they may have sent the work to the journal intentionally because they needed another line on their CV and knew the paper was not going to survive real peer review . Thus , although such a paper might be legitimate , it is also very likely to be of low quality and may well even be fraudulent or <URL> . It can also cause trouble for you if you cite it , as readers may think that you are not informed enough to tell the difference between real research and predatory crap . I would thus suggest treating the paper like a random PDF found on the web : it might be usable as a primary source ( e.g. , like a newspaper opinion piece or a personal essay ) , or to point you for looking for similar information elsewhere . If this information has only ever been published in this one paper in a fake journal , however , it should be considered to effectively not be published at all : the context in which it has been found casts so much doubt on its likelihood of being legitimate , and anything substantive will likely develop multiple real publications over time .
I suppose the easiest way would be to use the command in LaTeX . Put something like this before your : Use it as follows . If you want to change the reference to a citation or another format , you can replace the contents of the As far as to " What is the best way to cite a website URL ? " the answer generally is that there is n't a standard . Personally , I use web sites as a citation if it contributes some kind of important intellectual argument to the paper . If I use web sites as a footnote , it 's because it has to do with some kind of tool I used and is there simply to inform the user that I used Tool XYZ . Using your example , if I said in my paper , " We used the Google search engine to identify evidence of bias in search engine results " I 'd probably put that as a footnote , whereas if I said , " Company web sites from Google , Microsoft , and Apple about employment all state that having fun at work is important " may be citations . ( I should finally note that this is a personal convention rather than anything spelled out in a styleguide , but maybe it helps you ? ) .
Immediately before the definition , you could say " Quoting verbatim from [ source ] , we define a [ whatever-it-is ] as follows : " That is , in general , thinking in terms of honesty/forthrightness is an excellent guide .
I favor acting in the following way : If you 've only read one of the versions , cite that one . God knows what 's in the one you have n't read . If you 've read both versions : if they are identical relative to the information you need , publication in a journal or proceedings volume takes precedence over ( re ) publication in a career collection ( e.g. , " Selected works of Jones " ) , which takes precedence over arxiv , which takes precedence over non-arxiv manuscripts . if they are not identical relative to the information you need , cite whichever one contains the best version ( where best probably needs to be decided on a case-by-case basis ) .
By starting a discussion on a point of interest to both them and you . This can typically be a question , or introducing yourself and suggesting that you would like to discuss some of your results with them . But before you can get this conversation started , you 'll have to give your name , and state your position , so : all of the above . I think the best time/place to introduce yourself is at a poster session , if your conferences have some . And the purpose of these sessions is for people to discover new research and new names in their field , so that 's where it is most easy to do so . I 'd suggest the following : Hello , my name is X , I 'm a PhD student at Y in the group of Z. ( now , you 've given him enough context ... time to start a discussion ) I 've read your recent papers on W , and I had a question about it which I could not really solve myself . I was wondering whether , in the diagonalisation step of your algorithm , you could use a direct-space method based on partial sampling of the matrix , rather than transform it to reciprocal space . Do you know if someone ever tried that ? or I have a poster discussing the economics of greenhouse gases ' role in global warming , and how it will enable us to save on the costs of construction of actual greenhouses . I think it may be of interest to you ... I 'm over there in row 307 , and I 'd really love to get a chance to discuss this with you ... Scientists are curious , and the best way to approach them is to pique their curiosity ...
end question
start question
Does ORCID matter for a person who would like to work in academia ?
While I largely agree with Ian 's answer ( ORCID might matter in the future , but does n't right now ) , I see one place where it may already matter and a reason why it should come to matter more in the future . Right now , there is a strong implicit presumption of the uniqueness of a scientist 's name , and all of the literature searches and citation databases , etc , of the world get rather confused when you have a person who either a ) shares the same name as other practicing scientists or b ) has a name that changes over time ( e.g. , marriage , gender identity change ) or is represented differently ( e.g. , transliterated ) in different papers . On this site , we have a number of good , difficult questions dealing with the problems that <URL> cause , which is particularly acute for academics in countries that do n't use the Latin alphabet ( e.g. <URL> ) . These problems will grow in importance as the number of practicing scientists grows and becomes more diverse , and as the duration of the readily searchable literature grows as well . In short : there is a rapidly growing need for something like ORCID that makes it easy to distinguish scientists without context-sensitive text mining . Whether ORCID is that thing , and how long it will take for it to be widely adopted and effective , are both open questions .
Thinking more on this , I have come to agree that patenting things - devices , or drugs - is necessary . However , I wonder if this question would be answered differently if the thing being patented is , instead , a model ? For example , would it have been appropriate for Krebs to patent the eponymously named Krebs cycle as a way to think about energy metabolism in a cell ? Or the cell cycle ? Or , could the inventor of the SIR model of infectious disease spread have ethically patented that method of tracking infectious diseases ?
In the United States , you should never include a photo in an academic CV . It comes across as somewhat inappropriate , like you are deliberately drawing attention to your appearance and hoping it will influence the decision . ( I know that 's not actually the intent , but many people 's gut reaction upon seeing the photo will be " Why is the applicant showing me this ? Do they think I should know what they look like before making a decision ? How is that supposed to be relevant ? " ) If you are from a country in which photos are often included , then that will be understood as a reasonable explanation , but it will stand out as foreign . If you are n't from such a country , then it will look bad .
Jennifer Finney Boylan , Professor of English and Department Chair , Colby College , Maine . Jenny wrote " She 's Not There " and other great books . My heroine ( happily married to a woman ) Dr. Lynn Conway . Lynn invented both VLSI and superscalar architectures . Professor Emeritus , University of Michigan . My heroine ( happily married to a man ) Dr. Deirdre McCluskey , University of Chicago , Professor of Economics . Very famous economist from Milton Friedman 's old school . Want more ?? You are in the SAFEST profession to DO the transition !! Read Jenny books and Lynn 's website and you 'll learn how to do it , step by step .
<URL> might help or <URL> Here is the crux of the information : The period of stay is quoted as 3 years/1 year with the following documents needed : This visa applied for Long-term stay for the following occupations : Working visa : professor , artist , religious activities , journalist , investor/business manager , legal/accounting services , medical services , researcher , instructor , engineer , specialist in humanities/International Services The algorithm for obtaining the visa is given on <URL> .
I do n't think it is inherently unethical to do this . If all relevant parties know about it and you scrupulously acknowledge this other person 's work , then I see no specific problem . Whether it is advisable is a different question ... and one you should certainly ask your advisor . I have to say that it does not sound like such a good idea to me . Your thesis work is for you to do ... almost by definition . It is perfectly fine to get help from others on your thesis , and some people are better programmers than others ( even in CS , I imagine ) , so getting some pointers from a friend is actually a good idea . But paying someone to do a part of your thesis work just does n't sound good to me . Either the programming is an important part of your thesis or it is n't . If it is , you should do it yourself . If it is n't , maybe you do n't need to do it at all , or do n't need to do it to the degree that an outside professional would . There is also the issue of the impression this subcontracting would make on others . Perhaps the cultural norms in your field are very different from mine ( again : ask your advisor ) , but I would have a rather negative impression of a PhD student who did this : they do n't seem to be very committed to their own work . Added : To be clear , I am interpreting the question as meaning that the doctoral student himself is doing the hiring : i.e. , that this is his idea and he is using his own funds . ( If his university is giving him funding and simply asking him to pick someone to work with , then even asking the question " Is it ethical ? " becomes less plausible . ) In terms of suspecting that this is not a good idea , I hope I was clear that this is my personal opinion , with experience from a field ( mathematics ) which is rather closely related to CS but is not necessarily identical . As I said , the OP should consult their advisor about this . However , for what it 's worth I find it hard to believe that the reaction will be " Sure , spend your money . " While not unethical on the OP 's part , it seems , shall we say , suboptimal if both advisor and student feel that this is the best way to proceed .
I know this question was asked a while ago , but I found it while searching and ca n't believe it was n't answered . My mentor and I helped his team to analyze their data in that time and the project is still going on and sometimes , if his team needs , I work on their project which is not paid . It sounds like you helped in research and also have a personal relationship with him . Of course this is exactly the kind of person who can probably write a great recommendation letter or give a great reference , especially if he liked your work . Even if he is n't in exactly the same field as you , he can probably write a very specific recommendation letter pertaining to research you helped perform .
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
You should discuss this situation with your department graduate chair or a similar authority . It is important to give your program feedback so that they can improve . However , keep your feedback constructive . The word " report " is excessively negative . I think you should adopt some perspective . Often , graduate level courses are not treated as seriously as undergraduate courses because graduate students are expected to spend their time on independent research , not course work . Also , while you may be paying a lot of tuition , it is unlikely that an adjunct professor is receiving very much pay . Many adjuncts are working many jobs to pay their living expenses . They often receive no training from employers . Poor teaching by adjuncts can reflect problems with the structure of the institution rather than with the individual adjunct .
In my experience on many search committees I 've never looked in detail at the coursework or grades of an applicant . We have however required transcripts as proof of the academic degrees that the applicants claim .
If the student wishes to be self-sufficient in PhD research , then she/he ought to express that the student is competent to do so . There are supervisors who tend to give sufficient freedom for the student to do their research in their own accord . There are some others who feel much more procedural in their approach to build and shape their scholars to their view . Both are actually fine as long as they confirm to the type of their respective students . There are some who require more attention that others , and some others less so . If the student feels that she/he does not require to be spoon fed , then it would be up to the student to show that she/he is capable of producing valuable result by him/herself . The student ought to exhibit active involvement in the research and request for suggestions to the advisor . Here are a few examples . There is this new problem I 've just came across while doing this work . It 's about ... May I look further into this ? or There is an idea I would like to discuss regarding ... Shall I try this one out ? The point is to show how eager you are to be able to do research with lesser support . Of course this might not work all the time ( depending on your advisor ) . This would , however , show how capable you are and is certainly worth a try .
what the speaker is seeking by giving such small talks ? One word : exposition . As a rule , the more senior a researcher gets , the less of her/his attention is devoted to writing single research papers . It becomes more central to be known for a specific niche , a specific topic where ( s ) he is the world 's foremost expert . One does not become such a figurehead for a specific niche by writing good papers in the area alone ( although , clearly , this is still required ) . One also needs to be an ambassador for the niche . This includes giving keynotes at conferences , as well as giving seminars and colloquia . Also , who can give such talks Everybody who gets invited by somebody . However , typically , one does not give keynote-level talks before senior postdoc or assistant professor level , simply because most PhD students do not have all too much of a vision going beyond their thesis yet . And , frankly , the keynotes of most postdocs also suck . Like most skills in academia , giving good exposition talks is also a skill that comes with training . ( there are exceptions , of course - I can think of at least one outstanding PhD student in software engineering who was regularly invited to give keynote talks at conferences midway through her dissertation )
While I do n't really like adding answers to questions that have too many already , I also think it 's a little hard to cut through the arguing any other way . It 's not rude to ask for a letter of recommendation . Ever . ( I mean , if you do it rudely , then yes , but the bare fact of asking is n't ) . It might be unlikely to succeed , or unrealistic in some cases , but it 's not rude . You should try to ascertain whether this is a normal thing to do in your field . In my field ( mathematics ) , it borders on inconceivable that an undergrad would carry out and publish truly impressive work without an established researcher in the field supervising them and able to write a detailed letter about it . Maybe there are some other fields where that can be the case , though I ca n't say I know what they would be ( perhaps some of the other answerers are ) . Similarly , JeffE 's advice to try to create a dossier of the level that might be appropriate for a faculty position sounds completely preposterous to me , but I suppose it must not be in computer science . Whenever you ask someone for a letter of recommendation , think about what you are hoping the person will say , and whether they are placed well to say it . So , I would only consider asking for a person to write a letter based purely on having read my research if I knew they were familiar with it , and could place it in a context that is not obvious to the people reading the letter . It can be very valuable to have a letter saying essentially " this paper is actually really important . here is why . " I 've read such letters , I 've written such letters . But the paper has to be really important ( in the view of the author ) for such a letter to work . I suspect a lot of the argument here is based around whether the answerer really thinks this is an impressive publication or not ( which we are all guessing about ) . So , if I were you , I would ask some of your professors whether they really think this potential letter writer will be impressed by the publication . If they think maybe yes , then you can email her/him , and say : Dear Prof. X , I 'm a student at the University of Y and am applying to graduate schools in country Z ( or maybe be more specific ) in underwater basket weaving , with a focus on the use of hemp . Prof. W thought you might be interested in this publication of mine , since it relates to your work on macramae at the bottom of the Mariana Trench . I was wondering if you thought you could write a strong recommendation for me on the basis of this publication . Thank you very much for your time . Sincerely , Joe Schmoe Asking someone if they think they are able to write a strong letter for you is good way of leaving them an easy out , and not getting a terrible letter since someone finds it easier to write a terrible letter than to say no ( it happens ) . I would almost certainly reject such a request since I really would n't feel like I could write a strong letter . But if the publication really is that good , maybe someone will feel like they can .
Yes and no . Student status does not lead to reduced taxation in Germany ( that should hold for non-locals , too ) . Instead , low incomes and scholarships are not subject to tax , which is probably what you are referring to . The maximum amount for scholarships before they are subject to taxation is said to be higher for non-Germans , though . As a student , health insurance is also cheaper . You are unlikely to get the cheaper health insurance as a PhD student as well . Depending on the state in which you do your PhD , you may or may not be allowed to enroll as a PhD student , so you may lose benefits such as cheaper food in the student canteen . Other than that , see the links provided in the comments to your question by Wolfgang Kuehne , as the taxation situation is very much dependent on how your PhD studies are funded . However , being subject to taxation and full-fee health insurance is not necessarily bad , as if you manage to find a 100 % paid scientific employee position ( which is not uncommon for CS ) , you will see that the net income is actually quite ok - even if you take the higher accommodation cost in Munich into account .
In writing , there is a general principle of " show and do n't tell " which applies . It 's not the question of to anecdote or not per se , but whether the illustration provides some insight into how you are unique . If a ( short ) anecdote can illustrate something important about your creativity , initiative , or problem-solving skills , then it will help you stand out and can be useful to include . For example , compare these two statements : I founded a student group that teaches underprivileged high-schoolers to program . When I was growing up , an important turning point in my education was when a friend 's older brother taught me programming . I wanted other people to have the same experience , so I organized some friends and reached out to local teachers . Together , we founded a student group that teaches underprivileged high-schoolers to program . The second is longer , but it tells a lot more about why what the writer did was significant and shows how they expressed initiative and motivation .
The value is going to be hard to quantify , as it will likely depend on you , the people reading the application , your field , etc. . It will range in the eye of the reader somewhere between " 0 " and " Less Than a Published Paper " . Things a Paper " In Prep " Does Do : It shows you 're thinking about research enough to want to write a paper about it , and have engaged in actually doing so . How big of a deal this is alone likely depends on your field , institution , etc. . If you give an interview , it gives people a targeted thing to talk about . I 've been asked questions about a manuscript ' in submission ' before , because the interviewer thought it sounded interesting . These kind of directed questions , in something you 're hopefully very comfortable talking about , are probably more useful than " So ... tell me about yourself . " Things It Does n't Do : Critically , it does n't actually show that you can write a paper . It shows that you can write something you 've decided to call a paper , but the key act of academia , getting it published has n't happened yet . Depending on how well your advisor is known by the admissions people , you might get some credit for " Dr. Superbigdeal would n't let anything come out of her lab unless it was solid gold ... " but I would n't count on it . Or alternatively , I could submit my draft and wait for the reviewer 's opinion , so I can put mark the paper as " in review " . This will serve as a proof that my work is mature enough to be seen by others . But is it worth it ? I 'm not sure this will meaningfully change the value of a paper . Getting it published ? Major shift in its value . Shifting from in prep to in review ... distinctly less so . Because again , it 's lacking that last critical piece of being actually accepted . The difference between the two can be as trivial as a few buttons on a website , and personally , I would treat the difference as such .
Adobe Acrobat has a feature called <URL> . It lets multiple people in real-time comment on a single PDF so long as the PDF is hosted in a single place ( e.g. , if your department has network storage or there are services online to host such files ) . It works pretty well and is already built-in . Alternatively , you can email them each the PDF and then use the <URL> features to combine them , then send out that PDF . Not as nice but it does n't have to be hosted .
I disagree . There are very little differences between medical schools so long as you do well on your STEP I through STEP III exams . Basically what really matters is how you rank compared to the national average . I have interviewed residency candidates from around the country-their alma mater means very little to me . Their STEP scores and extracurricular activities matter as well as their personal statements . Do n't worry about medical school ranking-just worry about Step exam scores-that will really help you get into any residency program you want .
Please feel free to edit the answer to improve it . Generally , PhD programs in the US have many more applicants than they can accept . The number of positions is limited by finances ( a department can only afford a limited number of RAs and TAs ) , space and resources ( students often need offices and access to equipment ) , and the ability to supervise the students ( there is a limit to the number of PhD students a faculty member can effectively supervise ) . The admissions committee must decide which of the qualified applicants are most likely to be successful researchers while taking departmental " politics " into consideration . These politics include things like the start up package for Professor X included a funded PhD student and a particular resource is already at capacity . The admissions committee bases its decision on a number of pieces of information including GPA , GRE scores , statement of purpose , references and interviews and for international students TOEFL scores . There is no formula ( e.g. , 6 * GPA +1 * GRE +2 * References + Publications ) by which applicants are ranked , but some universities and/or departments set minimum requirements ( e.g. , GPA over 3.0 or a TOEFL over 85 ) . The admissions committee looks at the entire application to make an informed judgement . This means that being strong in one area can , and does , offset being weak in another area . GPA and major/background When admissions committees consider the GPA they are considering a number of factors including the grades , the strength of the school and major , the types of classes , and trends . An applicant who did poorly in 1st year general electives will be looked at very differently from a student who did poorly in advanced specialized classes . The major is not nearly as important as the relevant classes . For example , an engineering department might look more favourably on a math major who took , and did well on , engineering and applied math electives than an engineering major who took humanities electives . As with everything in the admissions process , the admissions committee is trying to judge the potential for research success . Compensating for a low GPA and major/background mismatch A low GPA can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GPA . Similarly , the SOP and letters of reference can be used to address how your major and background prepare you for research in the field that you are applying to . Strong GRE scores can also help offset a low GPA , and a strong GRE subject test can compensate for mismatches between majors . The best way to offset a low GPA , or a mismatch in area of specialization , is to consider enrolling in a terminal Master 's degree and getting a good GPA in difficult classes . I would like to add that an excellent way of improving a low GPA is by taking a senior thesis course , which is almost always available . Not only is this a proven way of building close ties with one or more faculty members ( who will supervise you in your thesis ) and getting those strong , personalized recommendations , but it could lead to a publication , or at the very least , a technical report published by the department . My senior thesis experience was life-changing : I ended up doing a Ph.D. . BECAUSE it made me realize that I was a better fit for doing research than I might have originally thought . In terms of grades , getting a good grade on the senior thesis course is usually not difficult ( especially since you 're not evaluated on an exam performance ) , assuming you put in the effort . GRE There are a number of limitations to the GRE in terms of predicting research success , but it is the only standardized metric admissions committees have access to . The weight given to the different sections of the GRE and the subject tests can vary substantially among departments . Compensating for low GRE scores A low GRE scores can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GRE scores . A Strong GPA can also help offset low GRE scores . The best way to offset a low GRE is to retake the GRE . The GRE is typically offered year-round for applicants . Upon receiving a lower-than-expected GRE score , you can , and should , immediately register for another GRE exam and begin preparing . Because of the short turn-around time , any preparation you did for the previous GRE should allow you to prepare much more quickly this time . You are technically permitted to take the GRE once every 3 weeks , or 5 times a year . However , repeat testings are detrimental to your schedule , morale , and finances , so it might be best to keep taking the test only until you receive a satisfactory score that you feel will rep
This all depends on what is offered in the new position and on your negotiation skills . Generally one tries to go up-hill , so to speak , or at least stay on the same level . The new institution hardly will expect you to make the transfer if they offer you a lower position and tenure track when you have tenure already . If you are forced to move , then you have a weaker bargaining position and might have to take a tenure track position , and go through all the evaluation process again . But this would probably mean that you have bargained poorly or accepted bad working conditions , or it simply could be because there are so few academic jobs these days . I have heard of one case where someone traded in a tenured Associate Professor position for an untenured Assistant Professor position at a better institute . ( The risk paid off in the end . )
end question
start question
Applying for graduate programs , will missing classes count against me ?
It 's probably inappropriate to say it always " count against you , " but it is fair to say that it will be taken into consideration . For instance , some schools may not admit you officially to the master 's or doctoral program in a field if you are missing classes normally expected of students in a given program ( for instance , if you 're missing analytical chemistry and applying for a chemistry master 's ) . In still other cases , you may be admitted to a program , but with no allowances actually made for the courses missing -- that is , you 'd be expected to pass the graduate-level courses just like everybody else enrolled in the program . On the other hand , if you are missing too many " core " classes , then you will probably find yourself struggling to gain admission , since the admissions committee may ( rightly ? ) feel that you have too much prior work to make up .
At every level of education , the purpose of office hours is to give students an open-ended opportunity to discuss the material that they are learning with their instructors , and particularly to get help and clarification in their understanding . As an instructor , I found it greatly frustrating when students ( or any level ) reduce this opportunity into simply asking for help on homework questions . I believe there are many other instructors who feel the same . In fact , I felt so strongly about this that I personally had a policy of refusing to help with homework questions per se , and would instead offer to work a related but different problem in order to try to get the student to learn the material rather than just solve the problem . I find this attitude most widespread amongst undergraduates , but many graduate students have it to . Hopefully , you are actually interested in the material that you are learning , rather than just your grade . That attitude , then , can easily translate into requests for help that are about the material , rather than the problems . For example , consider : " Can you help me with problem 5 ? " vs. " Problem 5 made me realize I do n't really understand Urysohn 's Lemma . Can you help me understand that better ? " Whether graduate or undergraduate , if you ask questions of the second sort , any good instructor who cares about their students ' learning is likely to appreciate it .
I think not . Ask yourself what the editor of the journal would think if your CV crossed their desk , and they saw you listing yourself as a reviewer and they 'd never heard your name before . Having a review delegated to you does not make you a reviewer for that journal . The journal chose your professor , not you , so you should not muddy the waters about what you 've been asked to do . If someone asks you about your reviewing experience , feel free to tell them that you did some subreviewing for your professor .
At least in mathematics ( and presumably in other fields , although I have no direct experience with that ) , they are evaluated in the same pool as all the other proposals . In practice , there seem to be two key differences in how they are treated : Panel members can be a little more forgiving for certain aspects of RUI proposals . For example , if the PI publishes excellent papers but not very many of them , then this low publication rate would probably be considered a bigger drawback in a non-RUI proposal . The NSF may give some degree of preference to a few RUI proposals , as described below . The review panel classifies proposals into three categories : roughly 10 % that are highly recommended for funding , 30-40 % that are recommended for funding , and 50-60 % that are not . The available funding is never sufficient to cover all the proposals recommended for funding , so further decisions need to be made after the panel . The ones not recommended for funding are automatically eliminated , and the ones highly recommended for funding are more or less guaranteed to be funded . The ones in the middle are ranked in order by the panel , but the NSF is not required to follow this ranking . They largely follow it , but they adjust it based on their own criteria ( for example , balance of fields , geographical diversity , etc. ) . My understanding is that if no RUI proposal in a given panel would otherwise be funded , then the highest-ranked RUI proposal may be bumped up in the rankings . However , this is not guaranteed , and it depends on having a high enough ranking from the panel . The program officers may also compare how panels in different areas ranked their RUI proposals , to see which ones seem most worthy of funding . However , there is no RUI-only panel .
Never hold your own recommendation letter ( looks unethical ) , let your current lecturers send the recommendation letter to the universities directly ( via email for example ) , that you applied for . Most universities , ask for two recommendation letters , by asking the information of the lecturers ( e.g. , email , address , phone , etc. ) who do that for you . So the recommendation letters will be sent by your lecturers ( e.g. , email , mail , online form , etc. ) to the universities you applied for ; without you seeing/holding the letter .
The details will certainly vary from place to place , but , as your questions suggest , what is required is not coursework per se , but knowledge of the material . The Math GRE subject test is perhaps not the most convincing way to demonstrate competence in calculus and linear algebra . Instead , you should directly negotiate with your target undergrad institution to see how they 'd want to be convinced that you 're ready to do upper-division coursework . They may have advanced-placement exams , or may have you take the final in Calc IV , etc. . It will vary , and it might be a mistake to invest time and energy in doing the GRE subject test , since this might not suffice . I ca n't speak for " typical " grad programs , but mine and many others look much more seriously at upper-division coursework ( or equivalent ! ) than lower-division . It is not at all unusual that people destined for math grad school tested-out ( or whatever verb applies ) of a year or two of calculus , due to taking good courses in high school , or from a community college while in high school , or self-study . The coursework ( or equivalent ) that matters much more is top-end upper-division or beginning graduate level .
ETS , which develops and administers the GREs , <URL> of all of the institutions that are officially licensed to receive GREs . If you look through , you will notice that almost all of these institutions are in the United States . Now , there are a bunch of other universities around the world that at least are willing to receive a GRE . As noted in the other answers , however , the fact that an institution is willing to receive a GRE does not mean that it is required or even particularly helpful . It is primarily a US test , and even within the US it is not used by many departments and given little weight ( unless one does horribly ) in many others .
If you can make an accommodation that allows the student to participate without violating his religious observance , and without compromising the educational goals of the class , and without requiring an extreme amount of effort on your part , then it is reasonable to make the accommodation . I regularly miss classes and exams due to religious observance . My school has a very clear policy on the matter : If students have to miss a class session , exam , or are otherwise unable to participate in a course requirement due to religious observance , they must notify the professor and a certain dean in a timely manner ( the definition of " a timely manner " is further specified in the policy ) If said student follows the above requirement , they can not be penalized for their religious observance and the professor must offer a fair alternative ( e.g. , makeup exam or assignment ) If your university has no policy on the matter , feel free to adopt mine , and specify it in your syllabus at the beginning of the semester . However , I would not take a class where I know the main requirement of a class would violate my religious observance . Indeed , I know people who have refrained from pursuing a career because a non-negotiable required class for that field would require something that violates their religious observance . * So , if the course is Figure Drawing and someone registers knowing that he can not draw the human figure ... I do n't think you are required to let him pass the class by doing still lives instead . If the course is Introduction to Art for Non-Majors , it may be possible to offer an alternative to the portrait assignment . This applies more generally as well . If a student in good faith ( i.e. , not to get out of doing work ) considers an assignment illegal , unethical , compromising to his health/safety , etc. . it seems reasonable to offer an alternative assignment if it does not compromise the educational goals of the course . * See : <URL>
I disagree with Dave . An invited talk is , by definition , a talk that you 've been invited to give . Yes , interviews count . ( More-or-less inviting yourself is not necessarily different than a non-interview invited talk . ) I agree that you should n't reveal which of your invited talks are actually interviews , but that 's only an issue if all your invited talks happen in the last semester before you submit your thesis . ( And maybe you should wait until after interview season is over to add them . The people who are interviewing you are desperately curious about where else you 're interviewing . )
Describe yourself accurately enough to let the program organizers decide if you will benefit from the course . In that sense , yes , you should admit your weaknesses , but it 's indeed counterproductive to actually phrase things that way - you are the applicant ; it 's not your job to decide what is a significant weakness . You obviously think you are ready for the course and would benefit - let the organizers know what your reasons are , and why you are enthusiastic . If you are applying on the strength of being a good software developer in general , including a link to some public code you 've written might help . ( And if you are feeling self-conscious about not having an undergraduate CS degree , go and get something like Cormen et al. 's " Introduction to Algorithms " and go through it cover to cover . You will hit most of the things you would be expected to know cold . )
When I look at an application there are four aspects that count : grades cover letter earlier written work ( BS/MS thesis ) Recommendation letters Out of these , I focus most of my attention on the latter two : if the thesis is well-written , has received a good grade , and the letters of recommendation support the candidate in terms of ability to do research ( from reading up on the field to writing everything up ) and independence ( how much ( or little ) support the candidate needed . The cover letter would not make the application , but could break it if it is unfocussed and does not show any skills in expressing the interest in a structured way while avoiding irrelevant information . The grades would , in most cases , be the least interesting since they primarily show one 's ability to read and understand , not necessarily reasoning and deduction . The exception is the grade for the thesis . So , to answer the question , I am not sure which might be more important but anything that supports your ability to do research is of prime interest to anyone evaluating an application . EDIT : To follow up on Gerrit 's suggestion , my personal ranking list would be ( in falling order ) : Earlier written work Recommendation letters Cover letter Grades ( although the grade on the written work is included in 1 ) But , all parts are useful and in the end some mix of all will be used . I would also add that 1 and 2 will " make " the application while 3 and 4 will mainly help to " break " the application .
Yes , the references/notes/tables are to be included in the word count .
Yes , you should start applying for jobs . You should have started several months ago , since it can take time to find a job , and after you do it may still take some months before the job actually starts . This depends strongly on what kind of job it is . Of course , if you are looking for an academic job in the US , the interviewing season is roughly November-March , so you want to time things around that . For industry jobs and academic jobs elsewhere , there is not usually a particular season to focus on .
The practical aspects of detecting plagiarism in text probably fall under the purview of Computer Science as @Davidmh discussed in <URL> , but developing these kinds of tools and actually applying them to detect malfeasance are very different things . <URL> is the professional career path that pertains most directly to the issue of detecting and exposing plagiarism . Many universities offer degrees and fellowships in journalism with exactly this focus : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Applying to Masters Program does not really depend on one single factor but a variety of factors . The above sentence is very important before we move on to the answer . The decision on your admit depends on your application as a package and will be evaluated in its entirety . If your are a local student and then you attend Google Summer Of Code as part of the general trend of your location , then its obvious that most of the people from your school would have done so as well . In that case , what factors in is your school an its culture . But say , if your are an international student and from a non-reputed institution , then the grad schools does not really know a lot about your institution , but then what matters is how you have excelled in your institution . Are you an student , who just want to finish of your course work or wanting to do beyond something ? Here what you have done matters a lot . Now the school where you are applying counts in as well . Some programs in a school would need a certain kind of attitude to survive . So it all boils down to how you project your resume , SOP ( statement of Purpose ) and how can good you have come up with what you have ? So most of grad schools know students dont have the luxury of doing all things needed for a program , but will seek to know how the applicant has fared in his life . So it does matter a lot unless you did study in school where just most of them would have done something beyond just academics or apply to a program where you expect to see a lot of these performers apply too . Just highlight them in way that is appealing to the school . Like ' I am 2 of 100 people in my school who participated in Goodle Summer of Code ' . Strike it like its still hot . Source : Personal Experience/Opinion when applying . I did focus on highlighting things I did and my other folks in college did not . .
Unlike a resume , the contents of your CV should typically be comprehensive and complete , including both research experience and service . You might want to reshuffle the positions of sections within the CV for a target where you want to emphasize one aspect vs. another , but the content should be no different .
The importance of any single metric is binary and its value ( important or not ) depends on the size of the department . If the department is big admissions committees use metrics to weed out candidates . Basically anyone with GPA/GRE below X is triaged ( does n't matter what school you went to , how good your references are , etc ) . Smaller departments generally look at all applications . Once your applications is looked at , it is considered as a whole . There is no formula by which good GRE scores can offset a bad GPA . Obviously a better GPA does n't hurt , but you really want to worry about the things you can control . For example , good research experience tends to trump everything else .
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
The answer to your ( real ) question is : Apply anyway . A department 's hiring strategy is many times not fully expressed by an ad , never mind the fact that it 's something in constant motion .
It definitely is n't unheard of to have a short resume/CV coming out of undergrad . Also , having just one page is perfectly fine and is actually about what I would expect from most people . If you must fill space , I usually recommend adding course projects or personal projects relevant to your field .
end question
start question
What are the responsibilities of a Program vs. General Conference Chair ?
Conferences in theoretical computer science like the ones you mention typically do n't have general chairs . They have a local arrangements team for organizing the event , and program chairs to manage the review process . Many conferences in CS outside theory have a general chair because they have many more activities . The general chair might be in charge of selecting The workshop program chair The posters chair The tutorials chair Publicity ( and social media ) chairs Treasurer Local arrangements And so on . The general chair can be viewed as being in charge of everything except the technical program and then delegates . But this may vary even within iterations of an individual conference .
The following answer is based on my understanding of what it means to organise a symposium in a conference ( i.e. , commonly a conference session of about 60 to 120 minutes with around 3 to 8 talks all with a common theme , where the chair is the one to invite and arrange the talks and often provides a more general introduction to the talks ) . Obviously , I 'm not talking about the more mundane task of merely chairing a session , which can be as simple as you being the designated person that ensures that each talk keeps to time . You can build relationships with the other presenters in your session . If you are organising a symposium , then you will be contacting other possible presenters who you think may be attending . This often provides an excuse to connect with people you may only know through their research . For people you already know well , it can provide an excuse to catch up at the conference , which in turn can flow into research collaborations or other opportunities . You are likely to get more people to your session , and those that come may be more interested in your topic . If attendees see that your session is all about your topic , then people interested in your topic are more likely to attend . In contrast if you present an individual paper , it may get lost in a more general session . Chairing a session can help people see you as a person active in the topic . Chairing a session can be something you put down on your CV , performance review , promotion application , grant application , etc. . It 's generally not a huge thing . In many , but not all , fields , conferences are more a means to an end . In these cases journal articles and grants are more important . That said , chairing a symposium that you organised does show some academic leadership that would count for something .
One of the wonderful things about your thesis is that it is one of the few documents that there is very little constraint on how you are allowed to arrange it . Once you have satisfied the university 's formal requirements ( of which there are often few ) , it is up to you ( with , of course , the consent of your advisor ) . So arrange things however you feel makes the most clear and accessible presentation , and it will be OK .
Universities offer all sort of " benefits " to its employees . Some of these " benefits " do not have a monetary value ( e.g. , flexible work schedule ) . The benefits available to faculty are often different from the cleaning staff . Further there are differences in benefits between tenured/tenure track and adjunct faculty . I can only think of three benefits , that have a monetary value , for which there are differences between tenure track and tenured faculty Sabbatical : Some universities do not permit pretenure sabbaticals . It is often hard to differentiate if sabbatical eligibility is tied to tenure or time in service . <URL> provides different sabbatical benefits pre and post tenure . Housing Assistance : Some universities provide housing assistance ( discounted homes , mortgage assistance , loans , etc ) . Portions of the <URL> requires tenure . Parking : Some universities provide parking passes . <URL> provides reserved spaces for tenured faculty while other faculty and staff simply get a parking pass . In terms of perks that do not have a monetary value , this varies widely by department . Tenured faculty often get to be chair of the department ( which may or may not be a perk ) . Departments may also give tenured faculty priority in terms of teaching schedule , departmental and university service requirements , office space , and lab space . The sabbatical system , internal funding , and administrative support may be skewed in their favor also .
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
I know of no American university in which any tenure track faculty member works under any other tenure track faculty member in any official capacity . The main difference between assistant professors and full professors is that assistant professors do not have tenure . ( Going far enough back in the history of my department , one sees " tenured assistant professors " . I do n't know what that 's about . I am not willing to claim that nowadays no American university has tenured assistant professors , but I do not know of any . ) " Associate professor " is ambiguous on this point : in most cases associate professors have tenure , but at my university the promotion and the tenure are distinct processes with slightly different rules , although they are similar enough and onerous enough that candidates get pressured -- perhaps a little unfairly , in my view -- to carry them out simultaneously . There are a few really good places where " associate professor " is a title awarded to young faculty for which their future tenure is by no means assured -- I 'm thinking of you , MIT . But that 's rare . You write that an assistant professor is " with a lower salary and possibilities " . I wanted to let you know that this really need not be the case . Academic salaries are most competitive now at the assistant professor level ; since annual raises have been meager or nonexistent in many recent years , an associate or even full professor can not be counted on to have a higher salary than a new-hire assistant professor . In fact the amount of our first offer to new-hire assistant professors in my department is very close to my current salary ( I am an associate professor not so far away from promotion to full ) . This means that if the candidate negotiates at all , they will get offered a higher salary than mine . This has certainly happened . ( All this is a matter of public record . ) I think that there are no full professors in my department making less than new hire assistant professors , but there are some who are not making substantially more . Also , in my department and at many others , assistant professors do not have fewer " possibilities " : with the exception of certain voting rights in faculty meetings , they have identical privileges with all other faculty . They may begin with less " service responsibility " than older faculty ; that is probably an advantage .
There may be some confusion here about the difference between 9 and 12 month appointments vs. arranging to have the salary for a 9 month appointment paid out over 12 months . In the U.S. , the typical faculty appointment is a 9 month appointment . Under this arrangement , a faculty member is required to be present on campus and teaching ( and doing research and service ) from September through May . They typically do not have formal vacation or sick leave but in practice can stay home ( and cancel classes ) if sick . They can also go on personal travel when classes are not in session . Faculty do n't have to formally request time off as long as they attend to their responsibilities . In this system faculty do not have to work over the summers , although many faculty do teach summer school or work on research grants and earn additional salary over the summer . Faculty will also often work on unfunded research projects over the summer . Many faculty with 9 month appointments choose to have their annual salary paid out over 12 months . This does n't create any obligation to work over the summer and has no significant tax consequences , but it is more convenient for household budgeting since summer salary can be quite variable and unpredictable from year to year . For example , I just learned today that I will be able to earn a month of summer salary teaching a course that starts on June 8 . I 'm still waiting to hear if some research funding for this summer will come through . I 've designed my personal budget so that I 'm not dependent on summer salary , so I have my 9 month salary paid out over 12 months . 12 month appointments are quite common for academic administrators and some full time researchers . These typically do accrue sick leave and paid vacation , which has some advantages but also has some disadvantages such as having to explicitly request time off .
The UK graduate schools are officially ranked through <URL> ( being currently phased out to be replaced by <URL> ) , so you can get a full list of programs that are of any worth <URL> . In the US , rankings are produced from time to time by the National Research Council . <URL> is from 2009 . The methodology and reporting format are beyond weird , but at least the list of programs is useful ( albeit difficult to navigate in the Excel file format ; I found my area , statistics , under " Physical sciences " , for instance , which is a very distant shot ) . The <URL> were done with involvement of real statisticians , so I trust them better .
Chaired positions are generally endowed , in that the money provided for the salary , and some other benefits ( e.g. , a dedicated assistant ) or increased research funds comes from the interest on principal donated by the person or people the chair is named after , which is part of the school 's overall endowment ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Being named to a chair is a prestigious award , and in many cases it is a lifetime ( or at least , until retirement ) position . Some chaired positions are given on a rotating basis ( e.g. , for five years ) , but nonetheless it is prestigious to be named to an endowed chair . While it is not strictly true that professors in chaired positions are paid more ( because in most cases pay is negotiable ) , because universities use a combination of pay and incentives such as an endowed chair to lure highly sought-after candidates , the pay is probably on average higher than the average non-chaired full professor would have at the same institution and department . Finally , some schools use chairs at the university level ( versus the departmental or school level ) that they dole out throughout the university . The positions can therefore be used as an enabler for some departments with less money to attract particularly important faculty members that they might not have had an opportunity to attract otherwise . For a specific example of the policy for endowed chairs at one university ( Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ) , see <URL> .
The title is your bait , the first paragraph is your hook . Make the bait big and tasty , make the first paragraph catchy . A poster is primarily an advert for you . Secondarily , it 's an advert for your research . Thirdly , it 's an advert for your department . And it will succeed at those things best , if it gives the casual reader an easily accessible introduction into what 's novel about your research . Know the flow : it should be clear to anyone reading , what they should read first , then second , and so on . Make it clear that it 's your work . Get your name and affiliation in big letters , with a photo of you . Include your contact details , and make sure you can be reached on them during the conference . Do n't use powerpoint . A poster is graphic design , so use a graphic design package such as InDesign . If you do n't have an eye for graphic design , design the poster with someone who does . Most departments have at least one natural talent . It 's often the person who keeps winning the " best poster at conference " prize . It 's orthogonal to ( i.e. independent of ) quality of research . Use a big , clear typeface . Not everyone you need to reach has the healthy , clear vision that most students have . Briefly state the problem , the method , the results , and the implications . Pretty pictures are crucial . The words are there just to supplement the explanation of your work given in the pictures . Test , test , test . Print it out life-size ( tiled sheets &amp; sticky tape are your friend ) , show it to a couple of colleagues ( one hot on your area of research , and one hot on design ) , watch the order in which they read things , ask for feedback . Implement any advice on content that comes from the one who is hot in your area of work . Implement any advice on design that comes from the one hot on design .
The advantages are that you get to stake a claim to some sense of ownership of the work ; it 's a way of inviting feedback and collaboration from others by showcasing your work in progress ; and it 's a quicker way to publish your work than submitting to a journal or conference . So when do you publish your work as a working paper ? When the following conditions are met : You 've done some work . And some combination of : you want feedback on it from a wider group than your immediate colleagues ; you want to showcase your work to get new collaborators , new funding , or improved career prospects you want to publicly stake a claim to the work you 've done And some combination of : the follow-up work is something that you 've already got sufficiently far advanced that it is very unlikely that you will get scooped by your competitors ; you 're not bothered about being first to publish the follow-up work yourself . And publishing your work in a working paper wo n't prevent it from appearing ( possibly in modified form ) in a journal .
Good question . Here are my thoughts . If you can have both , then you should . If you can only have one or the other , then I would weight it up like this . If both are going to say good things about you , then pick the one higher in status . If one is going to say much better things about you than the other , then pick that person . If you think that can get a somewhat better recommendation from the assistant professor than from the head of the department , then that is a bit of a quandary . As status of a student 's referee and their level of supportiveness both affect acceptance decisions to uncertain degrees , you will probably just have to make a call based on your own intuition .
This is normal practice these days at universities . In the old days , doctoral students could drift away from their program mid-stream and people would n't really care . They might return after 20 years to submit their dissertation , but otherwise there was no attempt to track these zombie students down . Unfortunately , many places are now using average time-to-degree ( TTD ) as metrics to a graduate program 's quality ( purportedly a lower TTD is better ) . Zombie students are problematic as you can have someone who is 15 years into a program without graduating , dragging the average up . Note that there is a difference between a nominal TTD and actual TTDs -- for example , in my old university the nominal TTD was 5 years but very few people actually graduated in that time , the average was closer to 6.5 years . In my experience , provosts are asking departments to track the zombies down and determine whether they should be terminated or not . Being terminated is n't a bad thing , it means that you will be left with your last degree ( e.g. , M.Phil ) and you should n't really call yourself ABD as you wo n't be permitted to submit . I 've been through a few of these cullings and as faculty I think they are a good thing as zombie students on the books really help no one . If you have any hope of submitting , I would ask that you be given some time ( 1 year would be reasonable ) to submit . Otherwise , I would take your MA/M . Phil and be happy with it . I do n't think there are any negatives for a career in industry . Again , you technically should n't call yourself ABD ( rather you " withdrew from program after meeting all qualifications for the doctorate but the dissertation " ) but I really do n't think anyone is going to check . Think of it as a general discharge , under honorable conditions .
I 've been publication chair of an IEEE conference before , and it 's pretty straight-forward . IEEE has a well-arranged process for managing conference publications , and you basically just need to hold up your side of the deal and make sure that nothing falls through the cracks . In particular : you should have an IEEE CPS publications contact . You can get this from the current general chairs , since they 're dealing with IEEE , or ( since its usually the same from year to year ) you can ask the previous publications chair . Set up a meeting with that person ASAP and they can walk you through the process and make plans with you ; I 've had very good experiences working with their publications personnel . The key responsibilities that you should expect to fulfill are : Set a schedule acceptable to IEEE and the conference chairs Work with the general chairs to fill out the required forms and get them to the IEEE on time , so that you can get the publications <URL> contract signed . This will include setting the various different types of publications ( e.g. , main track , short papers , workshop papers , tutorial abstracts , etc ) , as well as pages sizes , expected number , delivery method ( I recommend USB sticks ) and budget . Send information about camera ready from IEEE to the various conference chairs that need it ( general , program , workshops , tutorial , etc. ) . Work with chairs to get all of the front matter prepared in a timely fashion and within the schedule negotiated with IEEE ( cover , index information , introductions , sponsored material , etc. ) . Immediately after the conference , report to IEEE whether there were any no-shows ( who should have their papers removed ) . One month after reporting whether there were and no-shows , everything should appear online in IEEE Xplore . If it does n't , then you need to keep pinging IEEE 's representative to make sure things get into IEEE Xplore as promptly as possible .
Talk to someone at a media relations , public relations , or press office at your university . Most universities will have folks who work in this area ; they are the experts and have a ton of experience , and you should take advantage of them . They will likely be glad to help . Here are some tips that I have learned from public relations folks : Identify your message . What 's the takeaway lesson ? Can you write it in one short sentence , in a form understandable to the average person on the street ? Take a lot of time to craft this carefully . Then , your entire press release should be centered around supporting this message . Look for three facts or points that support the message . Numbers and statistics are very powerful . Stay on-message ! I can not emphasize this enough . Everything you talk about should be focused on your message . Avoid the temptation for digressions or tangents . Yes , you are a witty raconteur and can wax on enthusiastically for hours about your work , but this is not the place for it . Avoid unnecessary details ; give a spare answer that provides just enough for folks to understand the message . Yes , I know that you and your fellow researchers are fascinated by all of the details of your experimental methodology , the alternative hypotheses you considered and rejected , the details of why your finding is correct , your calculations , and so on . Sorry , but the average person on the street does n't care . Your top priority is to explain your bottom-line finding , why the average person should care , and maybe a teeny bit of something to give some intuition about why your finding is true ( enough to make it sound plausible to an average person ) . Edit ruthlessly . You want as many eyes on it as possible , and ideally people who are not involved with your project . Lean heavily on your press office . In many universities , the press office will help you draft a press release . They 'll talk to you informally , ask you a bunch of questions , and then work with you to write a press release . If they 're available to do it , grab the opportunity ; it can be very helpful . Brainstorm a list of about 10-20 questions that you expect reporters might ask you . Next , for each question , draft a candidate answer . Your answers should be concise ( at most a few sentences ) and simple ; and , the chance to throw in an analogy or fact or figure can help , too . When you are talking to a reporter on the phone , have this list in front of you . This way , when they ask you a question , you can refer to the list and give your honed , crisp answer -- or at least , you have it to refer to if you need it . The reporter will never know . Remember that the purpose of talking to a newspaper reporter is not just to educate them about your project . It is also to supply them with as many pithy quotes that they can use in their article . The more quotable you are , the more likely it is that you will be quoted . They will be listening for those great quotes . Take the opportunity to brainstorm in advance a few short quotes , and make sure to throw them into every conversation with every journalist . Read a bunch of newspaper articles in advance so you can see what kinds of statements tend to get quoted . The public relations folks may also be able to offer media training . If you can get the chance to take a media training course , take it ! This is especially important if you might be on TV , where you have to make every second count . There are some powerful but non-obvious techniques that they can teach you .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
I think it 's important to set boundaries with students , with colleagues , and with yourself about when and where you 're available for meetings . It 's also important to find environments that most effectively support different types of work , and give yourself permission to use them . Like you , when I 'm in my office , I expect to be interrupted ; so when I 'm working at my desk , I can only productively work on tasks that survive interruption . Put bluntly , the office is where I have meetings ; if I need to think , I find a whiteboard in an empty conference room ; if I need to write , I go to a coffee shop . ( Suresh is correct ; I am in a coffee shop right now . ) As Daniel says , all three places allow for productive work , but of very different types . Even in the computer science building , for small meetings where I do n't want to be interrupted , I prefer to go to the other person 's office . And because my undergraduate office hours are occasionally very popular ( especially right before exams ) , I do n't hold them in my actual office , but in a larger room down the hall with couches and whiteboards . You express two points of concern , which I 'll exaggerate : My students wo n't like me if I 'm not available on their schedule . I agree with DQdlM and Nate . Spread out your office hours to fit as many students ' schedules as possible , be in your office ( or " office " ) for every minute of office hours even if nobody shows up , and be willing to offer occasional off-schedule meetings . It might help to announce in your syllabus times that you 're willing to schedule sporadic meetings . ( " I 'm also available for occasional meetings Tuesday or Thursday afternoons ; send me email to set up an appointment ! " ) Consider moving ( not adding ) your office hours if student demand does n't match your announced schedule . But then stick to your guns . Yes , some students will be unhappy , but that 's inevitable ; do n't take it personally . Your availability outside regular office hours will not be the most significant bit in your student evaluations . My colleagues wo n't like me if they do n't see me in my office . I agree with DQdlM and Suresh here . Yes , it 's important to be visible and active citizen of your department ; that 's not the same thing as being constantly on call . The amount of time you spend at your desk will not be the most significant bit in your tenure evaluation . The danger is not that nobody sees you in your office , but that nobody knows what you 're doing . Give regular talks to your colleagues and their PhD students showing off the results of your out-of-office effort . Go to faculty meetings , and occasionally offer an opinion . ( Careful , that gun is loaded . ) Attend seminars , especially for faculty candidates , and ask questions . If there is a regular departmental social event ( " Tea " in many math departments ) , be there . And so on . Finally , I strongly encourage you to raise these concerns with your department chair or your senior faculty mentors . ( You do have a senior faculty mentor , do n't you ? If not , find one ! ) They can help you navigate your department culture far better than Some Guy On The Intertubes .
Though a Ph.D is not necessarily a disadvantage , depending on the field and the nature of the Ph.D , it may also not be as competitive as the equivalent number of years in industry . Think from a perspective of a hiring dev team leader who needs a good systems engineer yesterday to help integrate some obscure API from a vendor into their product . You 're choosing between a pile of resumes . On one , you have a candidate who has 3 years as a junior engineer in a company that worked on image sensors , 2 years of work as a systems developer II , and one year as a lead developer on a computer vision project . He 's delivered seven projects in total and has worked in a highly cross-functional team of hardware and software engineers , salespeople , and on-site support staff . The products he worked on brought the company revenue of $ 86.3 million dollars over seven years . On another , you have a candidate who has done 6 years in a Ph.D and 1 year worth of internships in total . He 's worked on a computer vision project and has contributed a novel algorithm to solving " Line tracing under low UV light conditions " ( I made that up , I have no idea if that 's a real problem in computer vision ) , and has written six publications . He also has taught a course on 3rd year systems programming and has TAed robotics three times . While they are both good candidates , chances are that unless you need someone who does " line tracing under UV light " , the first candidate might be more attractive . Less training , less having to work with that person to integrate them into a product-based flow , proven record of delivering product and making sales , etc. . . I personally feel that the " disadvantage " of a Ph.D is more about lost opportunity cost than an actual disadvantage . In many cases , the culture of academia vs. industry are different enough that it 's like switching fields even if the technologies are similar . Basically , someone with 7 years actual work experience has enough to basically go from a new grad hire to a project team lead , whereas someone with 7 years of Ph.D is proven to deliver in an academic setting but not in a for-profit product-based one . However , at the same time , there are many industries that want to have Ph.Ds on their staff as well because they are long-term , deep thinkers who are rigorous and detailed .
( edited to extract the key points from the main reference ) <URL> were always essential for me . Firstly I will give a personal replies to your answers and subsequently I will extract the main points of the Ian 's guidelines which are the basis for my answer . Personal perspective What is an effective ratio of introduction / methods / results / conclusion slides ? My own rule of thumb is to allocate 2-3 minutes per slide , which gives max . 6-8 slides including the envelope ( the " title " and the " end + questions ? " ones ) . That is , we have about 5 real content slides of which for introduction I allocate 1 for motivation &amp; context , and 1 to problem definition . The body gets whatever it needs , but should n't exceed 4 slides , with at least a single one dedicated to a sketch of a worked example . The audience does n't need to know how exactly I am doing the magic , I must however make them trust me and see what I am doing as plausible . The summary/conclusion/future work gets 1 slide . How can I balance the details of research without loosing the audience on key points ? Stress the motivation , the relevance of the problem and only sketch your solution so that an example which you provide will be plausible enough . Your talk is an advertisement for your paper . You are doing your best to assure that people learn something and you imprint some key points in their heads ( the problem description and a sketch of the main idea solving it ) . You do n't need to explain the details , just sketch the main principles . You want to compel the audience to either read your paper that day in the evening and base their own work on it ( hence citations ! ) , or ensure that sometime in the future when they will face a problem , they 'll remember that there was this guy speaking about something along the same lines , so let 's check it ( hence possible citations ! ) . What makes a " great " talk ? For me , it 's grounding in reality . Show me what impact your stuff has on me . Speak about an application I might care for , even if it will be only a hypothetical one . If the result can not be framed as a machine , or software , such as a lot of ( non-computational ) game-theory , then speak about implications to the society . Strike whatever chord , which makes your results tangible . It all boils down to answering a single question for every single person in the audience : Why should I care ?! But even if you do the all the positive advice right , there 's a more important point , namely what you should n't do . For example I tend to speak a lot ( see my posts at this site :-) ) . My main drill during preparation of a talk is to throw away everything non-essential . Moreover , I am often writing down notes about what not to say . Many otherwise great talks are ruined by the presenter speaking too much * and ** showing off . I do n't want to be impressed by your smartness , or charisma per se , I want you to simply educate me ! And finally the key points from the <URL> for giving a good talk , emphasis mine . General advice Communicate the Key Ideas : select 1-2 main high-level ideas and present them in a crisp and crystal clear way . Do n't get Bogged Down in Details : do not even attempt to discuss the details , unless you you have brisk answers to possible questions you open that way . Structure Your Talk &amp; Use a Top-down Approach : go the least-surprise path , i.e , the audience needs a story a wants to be able to follow it . The structure should stay crisp : 1 ) solid motivation/intro , 2 ) main points/body , 3 ) technicalities , if really necessary , 4 ) conclusion . Know Your Audience : allows you to skip some common-knowledge in the audience , as well as select what is important to them and what do they care for . Structure of the talk I added the emphasis to the points which I consider crucial . The Introduction Define the Problem Motivate the Audience Introduce Terminology Discuss Earlier Work Emphasize the Contributions of your Paper Provide a Road-map The Body Abstract the Major Results Explain the Significance of the Results Sketch a Proof of the Crucial Results Technicalities Present a Key Lemma Present it Carefully The Conclusion Hindsight is Clearer than Foresight Give Open Problems Indicate that your Talk is Over
I am currently the Graduate Coordinator of my department ( mathematics , UGA ) , and it is the season for me to get a lot of emails from would-be or might-be graduate students . Variations on " Will my application be competitive if I apply ? " are the most common question I 'm getting . It 's okay to ask this question in the sense that it does n't bother me at all and I will reply with something . On the other hand , my reply in most cases has been along the lines " Thank you for your interest in our program . I encourage you to apply . " I do n't think it 's in anyone 's best interests -- mine , my department 's , or the questioner 's -- for me to try to evaluate the degree of competitiveness of an application based on very incomplete , self-described information . I can ( and do ) address the required components of the application . If based on the information provided it seems like applying to a graduate ( usually PhD ) program at a top 50 math department may be a mismatch -- e.g. the applicant 's undergraduate major is in something other than mathematics ( or a closely related field with many mathematics classes taken ) -- then I might explore that a bit in the reply . But the bottom line is that the application process is relative and competitive , so more than likely we ca n't know how any given applicant will fare until we see all the applications : i.e. , until we go through the application process . ( However , if the self-described profile of the applicant sounds very strong , then I may mention that and encourage them more enthusiastically . ) A few final comments : 1 ) I can see that it is frustrating to apply , perhaps repeatedly , without knowing one 's chances . But in fact the state of applying for a bunch of things without knowing whether one will get them is a quite common one in later academia , so maybe it would be well to wrap your mind around it now . ( It is not a trivial thing to wrap one 's mind around . I was a really excellent high school student . When I took the PSATs I expected to become a National Merit Scholar , and I did . I applied to the University of Chicago not just because I expected to get admitted but because I expected to get a merit-based scholarship , and I did . I had enough of this kind of expected success that when it came to optional academic competitions / scholarships for which the outcome was in real doubt -- and especially when I did n't see success improving my life in any clear way -- I often did n't apply / show up / give my best effort , to the point of occasionally disappointing my mentors . Looking back at all this , I must say that I find my behavior quite rational . But it 's not the way that " grownup academia " works . ) I spend weeks every year writing a big national grant application ; thus far , I 've applied for the grant five times , gotten it once , not gotten it three times , and the latest time is pending and will be for many months . For this grant ( NSF ) , I do get feedback every year , which is helpful overall ( though sometimes frustrating in its particulars ) . On the other hand , I have applied twice for a smaller , privately funded grant ( Simons ) . When I did n't get it the first time and got no feedback about it , I was pretty taken aback and felt like complaining about it . But I thought it through : it was clearly to my advantage to suck it up and apply again . I did , and I got the grant the second time . That 's grownup academic life -- relatively successful grownup academic life , in fact . 2 ) There is a kernel of advice lurking in point 1 ) above . The best time to ask for feedback is soon after someone has carefully evaluated your application . If you 've applied to a program and did n't get in , you have every right to ask why and how you could improve your application . It sounds like you think that the reason you did n't get in were your GRE scores : is that what you were told ? If so , given that you improved on the thing they told you to improve upon : that sounds good , you should probably reapply . Finally , if you already spoke to someone at the program , they told you to improve your GRE scores , and now you have , then it makes considerably more sense to me to continue that conversation with the person who told you to improve your scores : given that your GRE scores have improved so-and-so much , do they think you should reapply ? In that situation you have a better chance of being told something substantive , I think . 3 ) My program is relatively small ( we generally enroll no more than 15 students per year ) . In quality , the distance from the very top programs and from " less than serious " PhD programs are each rather large . Once in a while we " steal " a student from a top twenty program , and sometimes for various reasons we take chances on students with inferior backgrounds . So our admissions process really plays out a bit differently every year . I could imagine that a program which is significantly larger , better or worse than ours might have less variation . I suppose I would nevertheless be surpr
end question
start question
What are good principles for creating figures ?
There are many books on this subject , as <URL> points out , as it is something of an Art/Science in its own right . However , if you do n't feel like buying and reading one or more books on the subject , here are a few basic things that I consider both important , and easy to follow : Consistency : While people can generally argue for hours over the merits of one colour scheme over the other , what is more important is that you use a consistent one for all your figures . Same goes for fonts and line styles . Also , if you 're going to use blue squares to represent some thing in a figure , be sure to use blue squares for nothing else throughout your entire paper . Conciseness : Try to reduce each figure to making a single point , i.e. try to think in terms of " what is this figure trying to say " . It 's tempting to pack more and more data into a single figure , but in the end this will usually dilute the message . One figure , one statement . Clarity : Once you 've decided what it is that your figure will say , remove anything from it that does not contribute to this single statement . E.g. do you really need every data point/curve you 've drawn ? If your statement refers to part of a flow chart or class diagram , do you really need all the other , less relevant boxes/labels/methods there too ? Also , if the salient feature of your figure is not immediately clear , do n't shy away from adding an arrow or something to highlight it . Completeness : Holding the balance to clarity 's minimalism , make sure there is also nothing missing from the figure which is needed for the statement you want to make . Figure axes labels are a favourite . Funny how they all start with " C " . This is not intentional .
There are many books on this subject , as <URL> points out , as it is something of an Art/Science in its own right . However , if you do n't feel like buying and reading one or more books on the subject , here are a few basic things that I consider both important , and easy to follow : Consistency : While people can generally argue for hours over the merits of one colour scheme over the other , what is more important is that you use a consistent one for all your figures . Same goes for fonts and line styles . Also , if you 're going to use blue squares to represent some thing in a figure , be sure to use blue squares for nothing else throughout your entire paper . Conciseness : Try to reduce each figure to making a single point , i.e. try to think in terms of " what is this figure trying to say " . It 's tempting to pack more and more data into a single figure , but in the end this will usually dilute the message . One figure , one statement . Clarity : Once you 've decided what it is that your figure will say , remove anything from it that does not contribute to this single statement . E.g. do you really need every data point/curve you 've drawn ? If your statement refers to part of a flow chart or class diagram , do you really need all the other , less relevant boxes/labels/methods there too ? Also , if the salient feature of your figure is not immediately clear , do n't shy away from adding an arrow or something to highlight it . Completeness : Holding the balance to clarity 's minimalism , make sure there is also nothing missing from the figure which is needed for the statement you want to make . Figure axes labels are a favourite . Funny how they all start with " C " . This is not intentional .
end question
start question
Preprint citations + Paper citations = ?
The answer depends on what you mean by " count " . If we consider whether they should be counted as citations : yes definitely . Afer all , the citations reflect how your science is read and then cited by others . It is then clear that these " count " . A problem occurs when using the citation counts provided by different services such as Researcher ID through Web of Science . Then it is not certain that the " in press " version is counted . I , for example have papers where in press citations exist . In Web of Science , I can actually see them but the connection is not automatically done so I would have to add them to the appropriate paper count manually . I know it is possible to write to Web Of Science and have references corrected or coupled . I , for example have another paper that occurs in four posts because people have written the wrong volume number , the wrong year of publication etc. . Since I am senior and these extra citations are not critical to me I have not tried to get them corrected but they can of course be more important in an early career case . Other services such as Google Scholar may work differently . I have opted for providing measures from services to which I can link and thereby have others verify my numbers . So in the end this becomes a technical problem , the citations certainly count .
There is nothing special about the initial date of submission . As such , it is entirely acceptable to add new citations , including for recently published papers , at any stage except for some journals ' final proofing ( where they really just want to confirm their formatting and copy-editing ) . Moreover , in many cases it is not just acceptable but required , especially given that review may be a very lengthy process . For example , I am in the middle of a revision right now of a paper that had an unusually long initial review for my field -- from first submission to submission of the revision will be nearly 18 months . In the revision , we will most certainly be citing new work , including some of our own other recently published work , as a necessary part of addressing the comments of the reviewers . So , in short : yes , cite whatever is useful to cite , regardless of its publication date .
In general , ' comments ' can be comments in support or comments in disagreement . Usually people tend to only submit comment when they are moved strongly to point out a disagreement . But , as question specifically referred to Nature 's " <URL> " ( BRA ) the answer is NO . The BRA notes that " Submissions should challenge the main conclusions of the Nature paper and contain new , unpublished data to support the arguments . " . ( i.e. , pointing out errors , reinterpreting conclusions , coming to a different end result , comments to refute ) . Showing that there is an alternative method that is better than that presented in the paper does n't seem to fall under that ' challenge ' to the paper . ( Unless perhaps you can write it as challenging some final conclusion that their method is the best possible ever ? ) They offer the option to add extensive comments under the paper on the website . But then it will be difficult for others to be able to cite or even find your work . It sounds as if you should find a journal and submit your your method as improvement in XX algorithm/method , citing the original Nature paper . For comments and criticism there is a brilliant new service of pre - and post-publication reviews called Publons . For example , a <URL> of a sensational paper in Nature . Each review is assigned a DOI , so others may easily cite your comments . Also , it is well covered with Altmetric , which provides quite a visibility to your comment . Yet , no official impact factor for you reply publication .
Your affiliation as far as the work goes is where the work was done . You should perhaps add a footnote giving your current location , and ( obviously ) update any contact information given . Or do it the the other way around : give current affiliation , and in acknowledgements or at least a footnote state where the work was done . I 've seen both .
I think the best answer to this question has already been given as a comment : You should ask your advisor . The fact that you are asking this question suggests that you and your advisor have n't discussed in detail what your thesis should consist of . It 's important to have this conversation , even aside from the particular question you are asking here . ( You do n't want to risk discovering much later that you and your advisor had different visions for what the thesis should be like . ) This is a good answer to so many questions on this site ( I have started to think that there should be an " Ask your advisor ! " closure option ) , but it seems especially true here . From the OP 's comment I can see that the master 's thesis is being done in mathematics . The expectations and requirements for a master 's thesis in mathematics are so highly variable across institutions and countries that I can think of almost nothing ( other than " Ask your advisor ! " ) which would be guaranteed to be universally applicable . In mathematics programs in the US , it is especially unclear what work constitutes a master 's thesis , especially in pure mathematics . Unlike the situation in many other countries , there are relatively few full-time master 's students in American universities , even compared to the number of master 's degrees awarded : in my experience , more master 's degrees go to talented , ambitious undergraduates who get them alongside their bachelor 's degrees , or to PhD students who have decided to drop out of the program and get a consolation degree . In my case I got a master 's degree along with my bachelor 's degree at the University of Chicago , and for such a top university you might be surprised to hear how minimal the requirements were : I had to complete all nine trimester courses that first year graduate ( i.e. , PhD ) students take ( I did so over two years ) and pass a pro forma foreign language exam . [ In particular I did not write a master 's thesis . ] When I went on to my PhD studies ( at Harvard ) I found that I was about as well prepared as most of the other students . I do n't recall that my having a master 's degree came up once during my five years in a PhD program ... with the possible exception that some students would , a year or two into their program , fill out paperwork and pay a small fee to get a master 's degree , whereas I already had one of those so chose to keep my money . Having been heavily involved with the graduate ( mostly PhD ) program at the University of Georgia in recent years , I can say that here a master 's thesis is whatever the advisor and student agree that it is , subject to the approval of two other committee members . Writing a thesis is one route ; there is another route involving more coursework and some exams . Among master 's thesis advisors I 've talked to , the sense is that the student should take the thesis as an opportunity to engage with some piece of mathematics at a deeper level than they have done before , to the extent that they have mastered it and can show this mastery with an original ( or at least , independent ) exposition . This description seems rather at odds with the one given in another answer to this question : NO . Undergrads may get away with using one ( or a few ) papers to synthesize the essence into their own viewpoint , but at the post-grad level you should be reading for width and depth , which means using every seminal work in your field as well as exploring the newer papers on the topic . This is probably a correct description of some academic fields , but not for mathematics . Very few mathematics undergraduates are reading " real " math papers at all . The task of reading , understanding and writing about even one " real " math paper may in fact be sufficient for a master 's thesis . There are even certain papers out there for which rewriting them so as to contain the level of detail and completeness that would satisfy a master 's thesis committee would be a real service to the mathematical community . I think that most PhD students in mathematics do not use every seminal work in [ their ] field : I did n't , for instance . I am not saying that just any old thing will suffice for a master 's thesis in mathematics : I am saying that the global requirements are very few , so it becomes more important to talk to your advisor . I have so far supervised one master 's thesis . My student carefully read and wrote about two papers concerning geometry of numbers and Legendre 's Equation ax ^ 2 + by ^ 2 + cz ^ 2 = 0 . She then tried to extend the techniques of the second paper to diagonal quadratic equations in n \ geq 4 variables . Much of this was easy , but the key was the existence of a " magic sublattice " defined in the three-dimensional case by the necessary congruence conditions for Legendre 's Equation to have a solution . After much trouble ( and some help from me ) , she was eventually able to prove that for more than three variables such a magic sublattice did not exist . She wrote up a thesis which contained exp
Yes . If an applicant to a doctoral program has written a master 's thesis , it will be assumed that the thesis is the applicant 's best work . Therefore admissions committees will expect to receive the thesis as the writing sample . If your thesis is long , you may wish to send a polished excerpt ; the expected length may be field dependent .
Most journals require that the submitted manuscript has not been submitted total or partially to any other journal . Of course different policies apply to open access journals . If I were you I would check the journal 's policy regarding this issue and contact the editors if necessary to get their opinion ( probably they will require details on what will be duplicated ) . To the very least discuss this with your supervisor . You can find yourself in a very unpleasant position if you are not careful ( not to mention having your papers rejected ) , as indicated by @Enthusiastic Student
If the goal of your paper is to show that your code solves a particular problem or performs a specific task , then it is your responsibility to prove to the reviewers that your code does what it claims to do . The easiest way to do this is to include the code as part of the supporting information for your paper . However , reproducibility -- which is what you 're asking about , to a certain extent -- is a not-so-simple question when it comes to showing codes do what they 're supposed to . For instance , a code that runs one way under one configuration may return a slightly ( or perhaps _ very ) different result when run under another configuration . This does n't mean that one result or the other is wrong -- it just means that this behavior needs to be taken into account when evaluating the correctness of software . One way to help this is to provide as much information as possible on your testing environment , so that any differences between the system on wich you were working and the conditions the reviewers and future potential users of your code will have can quickly be identified . This would be included , perhaps , as a text file that accompanies the code in the supporting information .
There is no consistent terminolgoy in this respect . <URL> , a database for publisher 's pre-print policies and probably as close to an authority as you can get on this matter , <URL> : The terms pre-print and post-print are used to mean different things by different people . This can cause some confusion and ambiguity . One usage of the term pre-print is to describe the first draft of the article - before peer-review , even before any contact with a publisher . This use is common amongst academics for whom the key modification of an article is the peer-review process . Another use of the term pre-print is for the finished article , reviewed and amended , ready and accepted for publication - but separate from the version that is type-set or formatted by the publisher . This use is more common amongst publishers , for whom the final and significant stage of modification to an article is the arrangement of the material for putting to print . [ ... ] To try to clarify the situation , this listing characterises pre-prints as being the version of the paper before peer review and post-prints as being the version of the paper after peer-review , with revisions having been made . Publisher 's policies on what authors may post on a preprint server vary a lot and Sherpa/Romeo maintains an overview over these policies . However , authors may not adhere to these policies or make the most of them when publishing their papers . Thus it is usually not possible to tell which version of the paper is published on a preprint repository . When you want to publish your own papers , I recommend to check both , <URL> and the copyright agreement -- most of them are suprisingly human-readable .
Nobody will notice or care , unless you share a last name with your wife , in which case the strongest reaction is likely to be , " aw how cute , a husband and wife published a paper together . "
The point of a survey paper of the type you are discussion ( as distinct from a systematic review ) , is to provide an organized view of the current state of the field . As such , you should not be attempting to cite every paper , but only the ones that are significant ( which will still be an awful lot ) . Writing a good survey paper is hard , and there really are n't any good shortcuts : you do need to become familiar with the content of a very large number of papers , in order to make sure that the view you are presenting is sane . My suggestion , based on my own experience in this area , is to use the following iterative process : Begin by collecting a large pile of papers to survey . Based on your experience and a few initial readings , hypothesize an organization schema for the field . Start reading ( mostly skimming ) and organizing your collection of papers you read using this schema , including noting which ones are most important and which do not fit the schema well . As you find significant numbers of papers that do not fit the schema well , adjust the schema to better fit what you are actually finding and shift the organization of your collection to match . Add new papers to the " to be read " collection based on the adjusted schema , then return to reading and organizing . When the process converges to a stable schema and an empty to-be-read pile , you will have a well-developed view of the current state of the field and be in a good position to write a survey . Note , however , that this may take a number of months ...
You should certainly cite paper A in any case . One way this is commonly handled : state your Lemma B. 1 and give the complete proof . At the beginning of the proof , write something like " This closely follows the proof of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] . " Now your paper is self-contained and you have given appropriate credit . It is fine if your proof is similar in structure to theirs ; in some ways this is better , because a reader who looks at both will more easily be able to see the similarities and differences . But do not simply copy and paste their proof and change the necessary words . Your proof should be your words , even if it is from their ideas . Or , state your Lemma B. 1 , but instead of giving a complete proof , say " The proof is very similar to that of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] " . This saves space but will be more annoying to the reader , who in order to check your result will have to find the paper [ A ] and read through the proof , adapting it to prove B. 1 instead of A. 1 . ( The referee may be similarly annoyed . ) Some people would omit the statement of Lemma B. 1 altogether , and when they need to use it , would say " By a slight modification of the proof of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] , we have blah blah blah ... " . This is even more annoying . Worst of all is to just say " By Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] , we have blah blah blah " where Lemma A. 1 claims something different from ( and not obviously implying ) the statement you want .
From an ethical point of view , you must cite your original source appropriately . Clearly indicate when you are using ideas , words , or figures from another work by citing the source when you use something verbatim ( typically by putting it in quotation marks or blockquotes ) As long as you attribute your sources properly , there is n't really an ethical problem with excessive use of a source . From a legal perspective , it can be trickier . In summary , Copying large amounts of text verbatim : may violate copyright Copying small amounts of text verbatim , for academic purposes : typically allowed under <URL> , though like everything legal , this varies by jurisdiction Paraphrasing text : does not violate copyright . The intellectual content of a paper is not subject to copyright ( as opposed to the words used to present it , which are ) . Reusing figures : may violate copyright . Check the policy of the source 's publisher . From a " best practices " standpoint , work that involves an excessive amount of paraphrasing is often lacking original intellectual content . Even if your work is expository , you 're supposed to be adding some value for the reader , not just stating the content of the original source in other words . So be careful of this , too :)
The exact manner of how you should cite the communication may vary from style to style ( often the date is included ) , but it 's entirely reasonable to cite such a communication in a paper or thesis . Typically this is referred to as a Personal Communication . Obviously , wherever possible , you should look for information in published sources , but where this is not possible citing such a personal communication will suffice . From memory , I think there might be one in my own thesis . A specific detail of an experimental method used in a published article was not discussed , but I thought it relevant to my argument so I contacted the author to get the information I needed . Edit : Typically personal communications should not be included in the reference list as they are not evidence that can be readily recovered by anybody reading your work . This is made explicit in several prominent styles ( e.g. , Harvard , Chicago , APA ) .
A review paper is likely also known as a " survey paper " , where you read ( i.e. survey ) related works in the field and then comment on them . Usually , a review paper should be able to contribute a small amount of knowledge in its own right to the field by providing a taxonomy of work . Another type of paper that reviews extensively related work but is n't actually a review paper is a <URL> in which you usually ask a meta-question about the field . If it appears in a refereed , peer-reviewed journal , then yes , it is a publication . In fact , if done well , these works can often have pretty high impact and can be cited very frequently . However , as already noted , since they do n't usually involve substantial original research they need to be augmented with traditional research papers . If a graduate student has only survey papers or systematic review papers , I 'd wonder as a search committee reviewer if this student did nothing but read related work rather than working on research . With respect to MS or PhD applications , I 'd think that the fact that you have a publication at all is already a bonus point for you . Most students who apply to these programs do n't have publications .
You 're required to acknowledge grants and grant agencies in your publications . Right now , all you have is a submission . If and when the submission becomes a publication will be the time to add the grant information in , especially if the venue has a strong anonymization policy for submissions .
I have just checked that changing authors when replacing a paper is technically enabled . I am pretty sure I have seen this happen : those with more searching savvy than I will surely turn up with actual examples . And yes , the arxiv maintains all previous postings and their authorship . I do n't see any ethical problems with what you propose . But I 'm not sure I understand the message that you 're seeking to convey : are you saying that you attach some meaning to an initial posting by your student only followed by a replacement jointly authored with you ? To me that does not have a clear meaning ( and by the way , some people will look at the first posting and many wo n't ) . If anything , that would look to me like you realized that what your student uploaded was not satisfactory , so you stepped in to salvage the situation . If that 's not what you 're going for , maybe do n't do this . Why not just upload a jointly authored posting the first time around ?
No , cite it as you would any other paper . You do not mention the paper status ( " invited paper " , in your case ; " review paper " , " perspective " , " editorial " , etc. ) in the citation , unless that is formally part of the title ( which it typically is not ) , or unless the citation style explicitly calls for it ( IEEE does not , and I know no citation style that does ) . In IEEE 's templates and LaTeX classes , the only place which mentions invited papers is a command to indicate when your paper is an invited paper ( here for <URL> ) : Special paper notices , such as for invited papers , can be declared with :
To answer your particular question : When trying to read it from home , it tells me " To read this story in full you will need to login or make a payment ( see right ) . " ( costs : 30 $ US ) . You can easily check this by logging in from home , some public WiFi , or even with your mobile device ( as long as it is not using WiFi in your university network to connect ) .
This answer is under context that the OP 's preprint was submitted primarily by him as a game piece in a competition with another group . . We uploaded the manuscript because we were scared of being scooped . We thought that by uploading the manuscript , it would make it impossible for another group to publish the same results . This answer uses the context that two or more groups were working on similar measurements in competition , simultaneously and independently ; likely there was awareness of each other as the competition for this result ; and that the only effect on group B ( if they even saw the preprint ) is ' lighting a fire ' under someone to finish the write up the results to try to either beat a submission date to publication ( just in case the OP 's preprint was prematurely posted to try to bluff the competition ) or to try to show how close both groups were in time and get an ' also ran ' credit . Notice that there was no mention of which group thought of these experiments first , or giving credit for the ideas . Yes , It is ethical for group B to submit a paper for work done independently even knowing that there is a ' preprint ' floating around from group A who appear completing their independent results simultaneously . Most of the fixup would occur after one or the other published articles appear . Giving everyone in this particular situation the benefit of doubt ; a solid assumption is that each group expects the other to submit any solid results for publication . ( and that both would prefer the published articles to be citation-of-record ) . It might be nice to cite a preprint in this case as a placeholder . But , the real issue occurs when the first paper gets ' in print ' and the still-waiting group can compare submission dates . Will group A or group B do their duty ? ( As it turns out from additional comments in the OP 's post , group B submitted their work before the OP 's preprint appeared . . The OP should add a citation to group B in his in-review paper . ) . To expect the preprint to be treated as the priority game changer between the two groups in this very artificial situation is not fair . It was posted as a game-piece in the race to establish priority between neck-and-neck groups doing the same experiment . Either group here could have abused a preprint posting ( e.g. , putting something out that is not ' ready ' or full of minor or major errors to establish claims like a patent troll ) and then fixing it up in a later version . If we are using traditions still mostly in play , when it is a ' race ' for priority , what will count to the community in establishing priority is when was the paper submitted to the journal . ( If someone tries to publish to early , and their work is not ready , there is chance it will get rejected , giving some checks and balances ) Finally - Journals will care about the submission date , not a preprint posting date . OP 's paper is still in review , with group B 's paper appearing first . It is usually is not a reason to reject group A 's paper . Group B 's paper had not appeared when the referees started reviewing . Traditionally , what would happen when the dust settles is that group A and/or group B 's paper would add citation or corrigendum . Pretty much for everyone else , if two papers with similar important results appear about the same time , they both will be cited more or less equally and/or together . The moral being , ( in this case ) that if one is worried about establishing priority in a race and trying all possible gambits , the ( ready to publish ) paper should be submitted for publication immediately after being posted on preprint server . Then it has what protections are currently possible under traditional model and any newly evolving models . * I likely will get negative comments saying that I imply to ' ignore at will citing or acknowledging unpublished ( but reliable ) preprints ' . ( No , I am not ) . But this case seems to be about independent , simultaneous competition where the preprint was used by group A to either 1 ) pretend they had already had version ready to be submitted for publication to psych out competitors from submitting their own , or 2 ) indicate to community that version was just submitted for publication and anyone who thereafter submitted would not have the priority when the dust settled . * In clarification - in later comments to the original posted questions , here is timeline deduced after my original answer was created . Group A ( the OP ) and group B at conference in their subfield . OP or member of group A shows their results in their presentation . From OP 's comments , it is pretty clear that any ' published ' conference abstracts available before or after conference do not present any details of results ( which usually means that presentations standard may be work-in-progress - no one in audience is going to complain or ask for a ' talk ' retraction later if results or understanding evolves between talk and a final publication . Group B submitted their work for publicatio
end question
start question
Is it a good idea to get involved with journals as an associate editor prior to getting tenure ?
I think my first recommendation would be , do not see editorship primarily as a career move/booster ( if it ever is ) . Become an editor if you enjoy that side of the publishing and you think you have something to contribute . I had some opportunities with editing conference proceedings and thematic issues which gave me the insight that I really enjoyed working on that side of publishing ( along with my research , admin , students etc , ) . Signing up to be an editor is a longer term commitment . You need to check with the journal if they have a " from now on " or fixed periods for editors . You should probably expect to be involved for , say , three years under most circumstances . You should also check the expected work load in terms of , say , papers per year ( but expect the workload to vary significantly over shorter time periods ) . Being an editor can be very fruitful since it may give you new impulses on scientific writing and thinking and other similar aspects that can help your own development . As an editor , you will perhaps also gain some reputation , your name will be seen in amongst hopefully respectable peers ( the other editors ) . Not that this may be of direct importance in terms of tenure or so but it may develop your network of contacts . There are many positives that follow from serving as editor , in my opinion , and it will be up to you to take the opportunity to serve as a fair and sound editor . There are no doubt tricky issues concerning ethics that will pass your desk but solving such issues together with other editors is a good and useful learning experience . So in the end , become an editor because you want to , the chore will take time from your other duties and you need to be prepared to provide that time on top of everything else over a longer period . As you become seasoned , the time you need to spend on each paper diminishes somewhat so initially , you may find the time consumption larger than expected . EDIT : I guess my point is that the editorial work takes time and effort but is also rewarding on a personal level ( how , is personal ) . How this spills over into your situation in terms of meriting is for you to assess . Does your workplace appreciate such efforts ? If you really want to do it , will the opportunity arise again any time soon ? Are you willing you sacrifice some spare time if need be , and over some longer term ? Clearly it should not reduce your other activities that are meriting for your career ( research , publishing , teaching supervising etc. ) so you need to balance between your own interest and what you need to do . That is why assessing how much time will be required ( on average ) is a good starting point . My personal view throughout my early career was to jump at opportunities that I felt strongly about and where I could see something good coming out at the other end . By good I mean both for myself or for my career . I figured , the only thing I had to invest was my time and I needed to invest it wisely to help me get a permanent position but also to do things I really liked . So on the whole , quite egotistical , but then I have not been much for spending much effort on stuff I did not like or saw a point in . Of course one can not jump at everything without the risk of hitting the wall . So , in the end , I think it is your interest and time keeping that decides . What you engage in can be either directly rewarding or indirectly so , and as long as it provides a positive , I think it is worth considering .
I think not . Ask yourself what the editor of the journal would think if your CV crossed their desk , and they saw you listing yourself as a reviewer and they 'd never heard your name before . Having a review delegated to you does not make you a reviewer for that journal . The journal chose your professor , not you , so you should not muddy the waters about what you 've been asked to do . If someone asks you about your reviewing experience , feel free to tell them that you did some subreviewing for your professor .
No , you should not , but there is of course no law that prevents it . Peer review is a process where the editor appoints reviewers because of their expertise to provide independent and knowledgeable views on the submitted manuscript . As such the reviews should pass through the editor since they are not only made to improve the manuscript from the point of the author but also prepare it to be worthy of publication in the journal to which it is submitted . Making such contact is thus breaking an understanding with the editor/journal and integrity of the journal review system and quality assurance . The correspondence needs to go through the editor .
It 's a little unusual . Typically you insert relevant material into the letter . Something like Dear So and So , I 'm awesome in these 10 different ways Now let me tell you about Candidate .
If I were you , I would just write why I want to study at TU Darmstadt . Have a look at their web pages , name a few courses you find interesting and a few professors you 'd like to study with . I think that may be sufficient .
If you have written the publication only with the resources and support of the former employer , then it is perfectly acceptable to do what you have written , and list the old address as your address for the " active " affiliations , and include a " present address " affiliation to show your updated physical location . However , if your new employer does provide financial support , then you should list them accordingly . This is especially important if any of the actual research that makes its way into a publication has been performed while working for the new employer using their resources .
Taking the job would probably mean permanently leaving academia behind , and giving up the prospects of ever finishing your Ph.D. . If you 're okay with that ( which you might well be ) , then I think it 's fine to take the industry job . I also recommend trying to figure out what your future job prospects are if you decide to finish your degree ( and conversely , what your future job prospects might be if you take this industry job and it does n't pan out ) . The comparison to your PhD salary seems a bit strange unless your circumstances are unusual ( e.g. you really need the money now ) . Whatever you decide , I recommend putting your own future first , and thinking less both about your present salary and about your PhD advisor .
I would start by asking the journal rep how many manuscripts ( MS ) other have agreed to , or what is typical . I would think that is what the journal reps would consider " normal " . You probably have a sense of whether they need you for something very specific , in which case a lower number might be quite acceptable . Once you know what they tyically load on their editors , you should think hard about whether you find the workload acceptable . There is usually no guarantee that the workload is evenly distributed unless all editors are able to handle pretty much all submitted MS. As editor you will likely need to at least browse the MS when you receive it , chase after persons willing to review , read the reviews and the MS carefully to provide feedback to the author , review the authors revisions , poissibly run the MS around again and then make a suggestion or decision on accept/reject . All this is within some time frame and chasing late reviews and authors who do not return revisions will take some time . I can also add that it will be the problematic papers that will take up most of your time , the good ones usually are not difficult to handle . You thus do not know how much time you will spend on any particular MS. A really good one could take half a day in total ; a poor may take at least a day or more . So having slightly scared you with this , I will add that the work also has potentially tremendous rewards ( reading brand new research and getting in contact with new persons ) . So , in short , how many MS per month is really impossible to answer , it will strongly depend on how you feel about the work and how you think you can accommodate the workload in your own time . I will leave you with this slightly unsatisfactory answer , but urge you to try to get a sense of what the journal expects and what they consider normal . You could also ask to how much time they think the workload corresponds .
There are several reasons to aim for good grades : You will probably want either a job or graduate school admission after graduating . The better your grades , the easier it is going to be and the more choices you will have . You are in college to learn . Why waste your time and the college place on not doing your best ? Think about those prerequisites . If you only just make the grade to go into the next class in a sequence , you may not be able to keep up and may fail some of the later classes .
Yes , it will make it harder to get a job as a professor of computer science . A distance learning PhD is not well suited for learning certain skills that one would learn in a traditional PhD , as described in more detail at <URL> . Some of these skills are important for getting a job as a professor and/or doing the job of a professor . For example , you would not get any teaching experience in a distance learning course , and most faculty applicants are expected to have at least some teaching experience . Furthermore , by doing a PhD by distance learning , you miss out on a lot of the networking and exposure to other academics that happens in a good computer science PhD program . This plays a major role in getting a faculty job afterwards . The exception to this is if you were to get a job where the PhD is necessary only as a formality . For example , if you are already so well known in your field that every university wants to hire you , but ca n't because their HR departments insist that faculty candidates must have a PhD , then a distance learning PhD might be sufficient .
It depends on whether the student on the F1 visa is already working 20 hours / week , which is likely to happen if he is an RA or a full-time TA ( typically grad TA ) , but unlikely if he is on a fellowship or pays the tuition fees himself . If the student is already working 20 hours / week , then he is not allowed to work , either it is on-campus or off-campus . Given the amount of experiments or other small jobs I see paid either in cash , Amazon gift cards ( sorry RMS ) , ice creams , and other kinds of compensations , the immigration law forbidding F1 visa holder from working more than 20 hours per week is broken every day . I am impressed so few people seem to care about this situation , given that violating the 20-hours-per-week rule can be a cause of visa termination and other troubles ( e.g. green card obtention ) . ( I need to check for volunteering work , but to me that 's work too . Any idea ? ) <URL> The only exception is if the Secretary of DHS suspends this requirement , by means of a Federal Register notice , due to emergent circumstances . The student must demonstrate to you that the extra work is necessary because the emergent circumstance has affected his or her source of support . Endorse the student 's Form I-20 with a reference to the Federal Register notice that announced the emergency exception before allowing the student to work more than 20 hours a week .
Thanks for clarifying . Do n't worry about the effect this would have on your future chances with this paper and this journal . If this pre-submission step fails , that is an indication that the classic approach would also fail . Either they feel it 's worth sending out for review or they do n't . But send the whole thing , not just the abstract . They need to be able to see the tables and figures . When you send the full long version to the editor , here 's a way to word the question : ask whether the work is appropriate for the journal . If you get an encouraging response , then you can start slashing , do a formal submission , and hope for the best ! ( Source : I have to give the credit to my spouse for this answer , who has about 250 publications . Edit : in case this helps -- in the field of experimental physics . )
When you are evaluated as a job candidate in academia , the first thing people will see is your PhD . That will tell them that you know how to dig into a topic , get the background knowledge that you need in order to conduct the research you are interested in . The next thing they will look at is your publication record . Because of the peer review process , they will feel confident that if you publish in reputable journals on a particular topic , you know what you 're talking about . So if you 're sure you 're headed for academia , I think you will be fine just cherry-picking the particular courses you think will be most helpful for you in Environmental Policy . ( Although if you find that you 're , say , only one or two courses away from satisfying the requirements for the masters , then I suppose you might as well finish it off . ) Think of how many PhDs veer off in a different direction during the course of their career ! They do n't bother getting a new PhD in the process , because they already have one . You can think of the PhD studies as the apprenticeship to do research , and the PhD as a driver 's license which was issued in one state , but which you can use in other states .
No , this is not possible , at least not with IEEE Xplore . In fact , they explicitly disallow this . See <URL> ( Point 4 of the " Do Not " s for Institutional Subscribers ) . So it is not surprising that there is no technical support for doing that . As an individual former subscriber of " IEEE Security &amp; Privacy " , they may have granted you that right . Interestingly , under the " Do Not " s for IEEE Member access to IEEE Xplore , the point about downloading whole issues is missing . So that may be part of the reason .
Writing grant proposals with your supervisors is great experience and good for your career . Writing in partnership with more experienced researchers is a great to to get " apprenticeship " experience and to become introduced to key funding agencies , program managers , and the expectations and practices in interacting with them . Moreover , even if you move on before the grant is funded , you may find yourself able to work on the project via a subcontract to your new institution or else to help supervise students on the project from afar ( I certainly had this experience ) . Thus , if there is a good opportunity for doing collaborating with your supervisors on grant-writing , I highly advise doing so .
In order for me to want to write a student a good letter of recommendation , I typically want to see two things : mastery of the material ( at least enough to earn an A - or better in the course ) engagement with the material Most often ( 2 ) comes through asking me good questions in office hours , although in one case that I recall , I was really impressed with the student 's final paper . Although she already had the top grade in the course , she went above and beyond on the final paper . I wrote her a glowing letter of rec , and she ended up winning at least one scholarship . Now to answer your question , I suggest that you approach a web-based course similarly . Obviously , work hard to do well in the course . But also make an effort to get to know the instructor a bit . Many web-based courses have some type of office hours ( perhaps a scheduled chat-room time ) . Whatever format you have available , take advantage of it ( possibly this could be only a forum ; not ideal , but still workable ) . Take time to think of good questions about the material , and ask them in office hours . If you have the chance , let the instructor get to know you a bit , too . It 's much easier for your instructor to write a letter of rec for you if they know you well enough to have something to say .
If you think your advisor made an error , then I would suggest you figure out how to prove he made an error . This is the first step to showing someone they 've made an error without being ignorant or arrogant ( the rest follows from general customs about politeness , but you absolutely must do this first bit . He supposes , presumably in good faith , that he proved something to you ; the " burden of proof " that he 's wrong now lies in your hands ) . Besides , this is a good exercise . Lots of things do n't seem like they make sense until you yourself figure out how to make them make sense to you . This can be a lot of work . This act of " hacking " someone else 's grand idea until it makes sense to me is how I spend most of my time . Thankfully this often leads to totally new ideas and directions that the first guy did n't see ( or thought too trivial or obviously wrong to mention , yes that happens too ... ) The problem is that , in very many fields , undergraduates are actually extremely frustrating to work with . They do n't yet speak the language , or have the baseline knowledge that all of your colleagues share . But nonetheless , this person is not the ideal advisor if he lacks the patience to put up with a lot of questions -- this is absolutely normal behavior for an undergraduate advisee , totally to be expected and many advisors find the interactions quite rewarding ! On the other hand though , you have some hard questions to ask yourself . Basically , you say that you want to ask questions without sounding lazy , but you must be honest with yourself about whether or not you are in fact asking lazy questions . The research process ( again , at least in fields I 'm familiar with ) is most emphatically not " do exactly what some famous guy told you to do . " It generally involves painfully slogging through material that no one really understands and proving everything you think you know to yourself repeatedly , and then to others , and then occasionally having it pointed out that you made a really silly assumption , or that some obscure paper already solved everything you had set out for . Again , the point is to create new knowledge , and so you have to know your tools inside and out . In fact , if your advisor is explaining anything at all clearly and to your satisfaction , what he is explaining is , by definition , old knowledge .
Absolutely , with no qualifications , approach the researcher and ask what it would take to do research in his/her lab . As a first-year undergraduate student , it 's very likely that you do n't have the knowledge to contribute to the projects . So approach humbly , asking what you can do to prepare yourself . Ask for suggestions for a review paper or a few research reports that would bring you up to speed . Ask if you can attend lab meetings as a fly-on-the-wall to absorb the controversies and decisions being made day-by-day . The very worst possible case is that you 're told , " no . " If so , you 're already there . Next worst is that you invest your time and get only an education out of it . That 's not so bad . You 'll be positioned very very well for next year . Good luck !
IMHO it depends on why you want to make it available . If your primary reason is that you want to make information available more publicly , you could produce a " revised edition " of the thesis and add a preface stating that this is a substantially revised and edited version of your thesis - just like other books do . If you just correct typos and grammar , just say that . There is also the possibility to comment on the conclusions you do n't see like that any more in a way ( formatting , footnote ) that makes clear that this is a point where your opinion now differs . ( like a commented edition of some work ) . If your primary reason is to give the text your online CV refers to , then leave it unchanged .
If the conference is well-known enough , then it is n't necessary to name the keynote speaker , because the conference will be recognized regardless . If the conference is n't well-known in the field , name-dropping is going to come across crass and not very helpful . So in either case , I do n't see any advantage to name-dropping .
end question
start question
Is there a way to check to which scientific journals a specific library has access ?
Since you ( marsop ) wrote Austria as place of residence in your profile , you may be interested in the <URL> that lists university library electronic journal subscriptions for most institutions in 5 countries ( Austria , Czech Republic , Germany , Slovakia , Switzerland ) and a few others ( including the Library of Congress in Washington , DC ) . It also supplies information for many non-university libraries that typically have electronic journal subscriptions . To use it , first click on " Choose Institution " on the left side of the page . Then select your institution ( if it is listed ) . If you then search for journals , you will see a color code next to the journal names indicating whether members of the institution have ( electronic ) access to the journal 's content .
Do as with any other person you do n't want to have on Facebook : ignore the request or cast a silent no ( pro tip : if you configure Facebook in pirate language , it becomes " begone , ye scurvy dog ! " ) . Most people will get the idea : you do n't want them there , and will not think further . If someone insists beyond reason , use Facebook 's tools to report harassment ( chances are you are not the first nor the last one ) . For anything in between ( a message saying " would you like to be friends with me ? " ) , a polite answer saying you do n't feel it is appropriate should work . If you are asked in real life about it you have two options : Be direct and say " I prefer not to disclose it " or " that is personal " . If you want a more diplomatic indirect way , claim you do n't use it much and change topic .
Often if not almost always , " International Editions " ( the monicker I know them under ) are copies of expensive text books printed in emerging market countries ( often India ) , whose legality I question ... at least they are not licensed by the publisher for all I know . Someone here might have more substantial comments on the legal aspect - in fact , <URL> in his answer to an earlier question . From the one I bought before understanding this , I would , in the future , stay away from them for their quality alone . I kept noticing that there were seeming errors where the text diverged in most cases from a supporting graphic ; and there were graphics on almost every page . I carefully made a list of errata for the first 100 pages , and submitted them to the author . He was kind enough to reply fast , expressing that he was puzzled : none seemed to be true . I eventually figured out that the graphics and text of my book were from different editions of the original book ... my version is essentially useless .
It 's not a myth . There are/have been some journals that pay peer reviewers . For example : The <URL> used to pay $ 5 per review , until some reviewers complained that " if that was the price that this eminent journal placed on their opinion , the New England Journal of Medicine should seek referees elsewhere " The <URL> reportedly pays for peer review " sometimes " Reviewers for journals published by the <URL> earn <URL> for each " timely " review . <URL> ( zbMATH ) pays 2.56 EUR per review , although this is for post-publication reviews that are then published . The <URL> offers " a review model in which selected peer reviewers may be paid to deliver high-quality and speedy peer-review reports " ( if authors pay an extra fee for the fast-track option ) The <URL> has offered an honorarium of $ 100 for each " timely " review <URL> pays its peer reviewers an honorarium of unspecified amount , supposedly " to motivate rigorous peer review " The <URL> ( which is on <URL> of allegedly predatory open-access journals and publishers ) pays reviewers for its journals $ 60 - $ 100 per review Whether the reviewer being paid , has more obligations to provide thorough in depth review is true or not is entirely uncertain , though .
With such a small budget ( less than 1000 US dollars ) , you 're unlikely to be able to commission professional work . You have three options that I can see . You might be able to find someone who 's just trying to get established as a provider of such services , who might be willing to do the work in exchange for publicity which you 'd have to drum up . Your project , and your department , would have to be seen as endorsing this person 's services . That can all be rather tricky . If you 're lucky , one of your recently-finishing students might be trying to build their business in this area . You might be able to learn the skills yourself , or get someone in your team to do so . Some data analysis packages do have the means to create animations from sequences of charts - Matlab has this , and I 'd expect its peers such as Mathematica to be able to do that too . The sort of thing that 's been done in a department closely related to the one I work in , is to hold a competition , with the prize being the funds you 've got available . It can be open to anyone , or to staff and students , or just to students : that choice may not make a big difference - most of your submissions might come from students anyway . Be careful with the competition terms and conditions : pay close attention to the ownership of the intellectual property of submissions ( to ensure you can use submissions without restriction ) ; and with how the prize is described ( because of potential tax implications ) . Your library staff may be able to help with the first of those two issues , and the finance team should be able to help with the second . What you 're after - the skill of creating high-quality data visualisations - is just the sort of skill that we look to encourage and develop in our students , so I 'd have no qualms in running this as a competition for the students . The tricky question is around extrinsic versus intrinsic motivation : should they be doing it for money , or for the intrinsic reward of developing excellent data visualisation . You might want to discuss that with the tutor who takes lead responsibility for the students ' academic development . It will depend , to an extent , on how close your subject matter is to their areas of study .
The definitive place to check is the IMS 's <URL> , which conclusively says : However , the author ( s ) reserve the following : All proprietary rights other than copyright , such as patent rights . The rights to use all or part of this work ( with appropriate reference to the journal and article ) in future works of their own , such as lectures , press releases , reviews , textbooks , or reprint books . The right to place the final version of this article ( exactly as published in the journal ) on their own homepage or in a public digital repository , provided there is a link to the official journal site . The right to provide a copy of the final peerreviewed manuscript to the NIH upon acceptance for publication , for public archiving in PubMed Central as soon as possible but no later than 12 months after publication . So the IMS follows the <URL> ( which is confirmed by <URL> ) .
If you do n't have the authority to change the textbook on your own , at least for your own section , then your target should be , not the publisher , but the person or committee that does have that happy power . * Show them this : <URL> and propose that you teach a section of your course using the appropriate open access textbook . ( Edited to add : Pick out the appropriate book and an alternate before you talk to the committee or coordinator and be prepared to defend your choice vs. the approved text . ) In the following semester , compare how well your students did in the next course in sequence vs. those who used the standard text . Your secret weapon : work like hell to be sure your students are well prepared for the next course . In the comments , Ben Crowell has said : " Here is a catalog I maintain of free books , including many open-source textbooks : <URL> " I 've edited it into my answer so it does n't get lost . Thank you , Ben . * Hat tip to Professor Severus Snape for " happy power . "
Your girlfriend could write an independent literature review in the same area that Elizabeth is working . She could publish this and then Elizabeth could use it as a helper with her own literature review . It 's still in a gray area , but it 's less unethical than being hired to write someone 's thesis . Rose would get a publication out of it and Elizabeth would have a citable guide for her thesis 's literature review .
During academic job applications , I did not hear back at all from at least two places ( in the UK ) , so I would not assume you will hear back . On the other hand , there was also the situation where I had not heard back from one of my top choices so I contacted them and they told me that someone was supposed to have contacted me two weeks earlier but somehow did n't . It was n't good news , but I had been stalling on agreeing to another position so ultimately it was helpful to just ask , politely obviously . I really do n't think it would hurt your situation , and as others have mentioned , may even help it .
In my opinion , yes . You paper will prove that those techniques are useful and usable by using them to solve a practical problem . I consider it a contribution to human kind , thus valuable to get published . Whether or not it will be accepted by journal/conference is another issue . You should try . Please send it to be peer-reviewed .
A common approach is to have separate sections in your CV listing academics works by type . I.e. , thesis , peer reviewed journal articles , peer reviewed full text conference proceedings , book chapters , books , conference presentations , etc. . Particularly for early career researchers , it is common to also include journal articles that are under review . These should be presented in a section distinct from published journal articles and should generally indicate what stage of review they are in ( e.g. , submitted , revise and resubmit , etc. ) . It is also often useful to make each section a numbered list , so readers can quickly ascertain how many works you have of each type . Using this approach you would list the journal article under the journal article section of your CV ( or in the " submitted journal articles " section as the case may be ) and list the conference presentation under the conference presentation section of your CV . Typical readers of an academic CV will know how to interpret this . In general ( and this may vary by discipline ) , journal articles ( and other full-text works ) speak to your lasting academic contribution . In contrast , conference presentations show that you are actively presenting your work . Typically , people evaluating your CV ( e.g. , for a job , promotion , grant , etc. ) would give different weight to different sections . Thus , organising your academic output by sections makes their job easier .
I favor acting in the following way : If you 've only read one of the versions , cite that one . God knows what 's in the one you have n't read . If you 've read both versions : if they are identical relative to the information you need , publication in a journal or proceedings volume takes precedence over ( re ) publication in a career collection ( e.g. , " Selected works of Jones " ) , which takes precedence over arxiv , which takes precedence over non-arxiv manuscripts . if they are not identical relative to the information you need , cite whichever one contains the best version ( where best probably needs to be decided on a case-by-case basis ) .
I am not aware of any absolute measure for this . However , you can have a general idea by : Some schools provide last year ( s ) statistics about their programs ( usually in the prospective student section ) . For example , program A has attracted X number of applications and Y applications were accepted . Also , some programs have a fix limit ( i.e. due to number of equipments available ) for number of applications to be accepted . Sometimes online admission results like the one in <URL> give you a sense on how strict the school is .
I am not sure that this is a good question , because the length of a thesis is obviously highly dependent on factors such as line spacing . Having said that , it is possible to give a definitive answer to the question as written , even in the restrictive form asking about pure mathematics : Yes . From MathSciNet : Lan , Kai-Wen Arithmetic compactifications of PEL-type Shimura varieties . Thesis ( Ph.D. ) -- Harvard University . 2008 . 1077 pp . <URL> .
Since I 'm not really sure what is available in the GIS field for research I wo n't try to answer that part , but when I was in university I did some consultant work for a GPS company called <URL> . They had me in to help with some database stuff , but much of what they did seemed to be making custom gps/gis maps for various clients . For example they might have a client who is a fisherman that needs a map of all his fishing areas , or where his traps are . Another example could be a wildlife preserve where they need to keep track of the animals with gps trackers in realtime . Either way it would fit both your skillsets . This is just a industry example and you seem to me more looking for a research position or ideas .
I do n't know if this is universal , but I do know that some programs require background checks for anyone interacting with individuals under 18 . For example , from the <URL> ( bottom paragraph on that page ) : Special note for Applicants to the Clinical Psychology Program : Consistent with Pennsylvania law , all students in the Clinical Psychology Program must satisfactorily pass required background checks that are intended to protect children from contact with individuals who have abused children or have been convicted of certain felonies ( including drug felonies ) , as is further explained here : <URL> . FBI , Pennsylvania State Police , and Pennsylvania Child Abuse clearances must be completed during the fall term of the student 's first year . Students may not continue in the Clinical Psychology Program if they fail any of these background checks or decline to submit applications to obtain them . Cost of the clearances is to be covered by the student . Given that many undergraduate students are underage , and given that as a graduate student you will almost certainly be interacting with undergrads as part of your teaching assistant and undergraduate mentorship duties , this is required for basically all grad students . I know that , at Pitt , this is n't just for the Psych program ; lots of programs have a similar requirement . Much of this is new since the <URL> events .
The biggest problem that you face when writing a programming language paper is explaining why the world needs another programming language , rather than a library or an API or something of the sort . I would thus recommend skipping " standard " examples such as " Hello world " and recursive factorials entirely , and instead going straight to a set of minimal examples that illustrate the value of the new language . Only in the case of a <URL> will the standard examples be necessary to help understand the scientific concepts . Note that documenting a programming language is an entirely different matter .
According to the <URL> at the Colorado School of Mines , which also requires international students to enroll in the school insurance plan , it is legal . The legal rationale they offer is : It 's not considered discrimination to have different policies for U.S. citizen vs. international students , so long as the requirements are the same for all international students regardless of country of origin : " The University may impose such a requirement on all students who are not United States citizens . Such a requirement is not regarded as discrimination on the basis of national origin by the courts . See Espinoza vs. Farah , 6 FEP 931 ( November 19 , 1973 ) . This is true so long as no distinction is made between citizens of different foreign countries " ( Joseph Goldhammer , Resident Legal Counsel , Office of the Attorney General , Dept. of Law , State of Colorado , regarding Foreign Student Health Insurance ) . Federal immigration law itself imposes certain health insurance or other requirements on foreign students : Most students come to U.S. institutions under an " F " visa . Federal immigration law requires that this subclass of non-immigrants provide proof of their financial ability to support themselves and the cost of their education . These requirements have not been found to violate the equal protection amendment to the constitution . ( Anwo vs. Immigration and Naturalization Service. , 607 F. 2d 435 D.C. Cir 1979 ) . Colorado School of Mines considers medical insurance an integral part of the students ability to support themselves . Federal immigration law also requires that exchange visitors and their accompanying spouse/dependent ( s ) coming to the United States on a " J " visa carry medical insurance . ( 22 CFR 515.14 ) ( Note that J-1 visa holders are required to have health insurance meeting certain minimum requirements , not just any health insurance . ) Courts have recognized that specifically mandating health insurance for foreign students is not discriminatory : Equal Protection Analysis/14th Amendment to the Constitution : The U.S. constitution requires that " no state shall ... deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law . " Is requiring health insurance of international students discriminatory ? Does it violate those students ' constitutional equal protection rights ? Case law differentiates the legal rights of U.S. citizens and permanent residents from the legal rights of non-immigrant aliens , those persons who are in the United States for a short period of time and for a particular purpose . Courts have recognized that requiring health insurance protects the students ' ability to exist in the community , realizing the high costs of health care in this country ( Ahmed v. University of Toledo , 822 F. 2d 26 6th Cir . 1987 ) . Further , courts have acknowledged that requiring health insurance is consistent with , and supports the purposes of , federal immigration law . " International students do not have a constitutional right to attend American universities without complying with the institutions ' reasonable regulations . " ( Plyler v. Doe , 457 U.S. 202 , 1982 ) .
Recently , I have had a very similar situation occur . The original paper discussed and explained the theoretical and practical aspects of a scientific technique that we adapted ; the second discussed and explained the programming automation of the technique . My advisor and co-author advised me at the time that each paper has got to be unique , taking the lead from the previous one and adding new information , techniques etc. . The journal that I published in are quite happy to take on a follow up article , just as long as it is sufficiently unique . So , in answer to your questions - it would most likely be a new paper for publication , make reference to the previous one , but place the emphasis on the new developments .
I will direct my answer at an American academic career in the sciences . You certainly have a right to make your political opinions known . Unfortunately the internet makes it possible ( indeed , trivial ) to search through every public remark someone has ever made , and this means that everyone can be held to a higher level of scrutiny in this regard than in the past . As others have said , there are situations in which remarks people have made have had a negative impact on their academic career . Most academics believe that " academic freedom " should ensure immunity from retribution for a range of such political remarks ... but certainly not all of them . In fact , it is not entirely clear what constitutes a political remark as opposed to something else . For instance , one of Steven Salaita 's tweets was Israel : transforming ' antisemitism ' from something horrible to something honorable since 1948 . This is taken from <URL> in which he explains the context . The additional context he provides convinced me to view it is as a truly political remark that should come under the protections of " free speech " and " academic freedom " . However , without that context ... in that it contains the claim that antisemitism is honorable , it looks pretty bad . If my colleague had posted this and asked me to defend his right to keep it there , I would on the contrary ask him to take it down . Here are some thoughts on how to be politically active in a way which is not to the detriment of one 's academic career : Do n't post on twitter . Really , " do n't post on twitter " seems close to being universally good advice . [ Added : David Z disagrees . I can see that if you want to post academic/scientific content only then the twitter effect would be at least non-negative . I can not agree that twitter has had a significant effect in disseminating work in my field , especially in comparison to so many other electronic media . But maybe it is different for others . ] But the combination of telling the whole world and strict character limits make it anathema to academic discourse or even , I would advise , to discourse by academics . In general , young people need to use social media carefully : political articles are different , but one 's off-hand political , social and religious comments are best not shown to the entire world . Make sure that your political remarks can only be construed as political . This is the moral from the above example . Political remarks advocate policy , support or criticize governments , or support or criticize political figures on political matters . Salaita 's tweet ( intentionally , and even rather cleverly ) plays on the distinction between criticizing the Iraeli government and criticizing Jewish people . But do n't play with that . Do n't criticize or denigrate any ethnic group . When you want to criticize a group of people aligned around a certain practice , make sure you are criticizing the practice , not the people as people . For instance , if you are pro-life , do n't ( publicly ) paint women who get abortions as immoral or unclean : that 's not a political statement . Do n't ( publicly ) criticize conservative politicians who are against gay rights by saying that they must either have terrible sex lives , be latently gay or both . Try to have a clear separation between your political activities and your academic ones . The OP says that he has political articles published online . Sounds fine to me . I would think at least three times about incorporating these articles into your science classes . As a general rule , I feel free to discuss politics and religion in my ( mathematics ) courses because I feel these should not be taboo topics among human beings , but I always characterize them as digressions from the class , I never push a position , and in fact I try not to enunciate my own stance or position in a classroom environment . If someone wants to hear how I really feel about Islam or the midterm elections , they can talk to me after class . This " clear separation " should work just as well in the sciences as it does in math . Academics in certain other fields might have more trouble with this : e.g. women 's studies . Hiring committees doing significant digging into candidates ' extra-academic life is the exception rather than the rule . The OP specifically mentions graduate admissions and googling . I have done lots of graduate admissions and I can not specifically remember ever having googled an applicant ( and I often google their letter writers or their home institution ) . For faculty and such : sure , sometimes I get curious , but I do n't feel like such googling is part of the faculty search process . If I found some political activity about a faculty candidate through the job search , it would have to be extremely significant or specifically problematic in some way for me to bring it up to my colleagues at all . To give two examples of googling academics : I have learned for instance that someone had been a union organizer and s
end question
start question
Which institution 's logo to add to research poster when research was done at institution different to main affiliation as student ?
If both institutions have supported your project , you should acknowledge both in your poster . To save space , you have a variety of options : Make the logos smaller by scaling them . If available , use a small , square version of the logo rather than a larger rectangular version . Put the logos in a part of the poster that is underutilized . ( For example , left-align the title and authors , and put the logos over to the right side next to the author list . )
I wanted to see if there is any way to point out who was the main contributor in a graph paper or not ? Generally not . In pure mathematics it 's extremely unconventional to use any author ordering other than alphabetical . You could try , but it will look weird and attract negative attention , and nobody will be quite sure how to interpret it . In particular , you run the risk of having people think " this jerk insisted on being listed first despite the near-universal use of alphabetical order " . I virtually never see papers with any other author ordering , and I would not recommend it . It 's also rare and considered awkward to include any discussion in the paper of who contributed what . One reason is that it 's difficult to write such a discussion fairly . For example , suppose your collaborators try three approaches that fail before you find one that works . Reasonable people could disagree as to whether your collaborators were obviously on the wrong track all along , or whether they pointed the way to the solution by eliminating other plausible methods . ( The general principle is that if your collaborators are n't useful , then you should n't be working with them . Turning this around , if they are useful enough that you are happy to work with them before the problem is solved , then you ca n't retroactively decide that they were n't useful enough afterwards . ) The flip side of this is that the standards for being an author are fairly demanding , and coauthors should have seriously worked on the mathematics itself . In particular , supervising the project or editing the paper are not by themselves sufficient for coauthorship . But it 's reasonable for these people to be coauthors if they worked on the problem with you , even if you were the one who ended up making the decisive contribution . I think it may be a very deciding factor in being accepted by a good university for a master program because we can only have a few papers before graduation . The usual way this information is conveyed is a letter of recommendation from your supervisor , who can highlight the role you played in the project .
I do n't think there are any " official rules " . ( I ca n't even find a clause in my employment contract that officially requires me to list my university on my papers . ) But as long as you are a student , it 's a good idea to list your university as an affiliation . Even if the university is n't paying you , you do benefit indirectly from the intellectual environment and resources that the university provides : professors , fellow students , library , internet , health insurance , nearby coffee shops , and so on . It costs you nothing to be generous . Also , for better or worse , <URL> .
A poster of which you 're not the first author is such a minor thing I would n't worry about it ( even if it is listed on the conference website ) . I do n't have a huge publication list but still only include posters I presented ( aand only at major conferences ) . They do n't have anything like the CV impact of a peer-reviewed paper . Either : You were accidentally omitted and should be included . In this case the author should contact the conference organisers ( but it 's probably too late ) . Or your contribution was rather minor -- perhaps it only became apparent that your work made it onto the poster at all at the last minute . In this case while you 're named as an author it 's closer to an acknowledgement in practice . Listing it as a publication , if the title can be searched for but you 're not named , does n't seem like a good idea . Realistically no one is ever going to look . But if you just happen to come up against someone who 's interested in something very specific about the poster that you do n't normally do , it is n't going to help you .
It does n't matter what the supervisor 's Ph.D. was in , originally : fields are protean and careers take all sorts of strange paths . What really matters is whether the supervisor 's knowledge is sufficient to supervise the research that the student will be conducting . That depends on the path of their career , the precise focus of the student 's research , etc. . My advisor , for example , had a Ph.D. in mathematics ( since computer science did n't really exist as a separate field yet ) , but has worked in artificial intelligence , electrical engineering , physics , VLSI , biological modeling , and astronomy , and would be quite appropriate to supervise students in projects in any of those fields , if their focus and his background had sufficient overlap . Likewise , my background in artificial intelligence was no barrier to supervising a biology Ph.D. ( which I have done ) , given the path of my own research over time .
The situation may be challenging , but you do n't need to be uncomfortable with it . In academic research , it is not uncommon that the one doing the actual project is more familiar with the material than the one supervising it . While it 's probably rarely the case in an undergraduate - PhD student relation , it almost becomes the norm in the PhD student - professor relation , at least as the PhD student becomes more senior . Keep in mind that supervising is not only about teaching the material , but also about how to act and conduct research professionally . I hope you feel more confident about the latter aspect ! In your specific situation , there seem to be two possible steps if you feel you need to do something about it . Talk to the student you supervise , explain that your background is in a different field , and openly state that you may not be able to fully help on the content side of the project . If the student is sufficiently confident in working more independently , you should be able to be more relaxed as well . Otherwise , you may need to talk to your supervisor again and explain the problem . Maybe he can point out an additional member of the group who would be able to help with the aspects you ca n't cover .
In my experience , such declarations are typically defined in terms of authorship . Thus , you will see , for example , a prize to be awarded for papers with a student first author , or for papers with only students as authors . I would therefore generally interpret " solely written by " as meaning " all co-authors are . " If you want to be certain , however , it should not be any problem to request clarification from the organizers .
I would ask a colleague which does speak Thai , and ask him if there are any relevant Thai publications you need to be aware of . Ofcourse this colleague needs to be in the same field you are interested in . If he or she does not know of any relevant literature , this might indicate that you are not missing any relevant research . In addition , when you are looking for papers yourself , I would Google translate the titles of the papers , and if they seem interesting I would ask a native speaking colleague to translate the abstract . If it still is interesting then you ask your colleague to read the paper together with you .
Yes , it 's ethical . Everyone applies to multiple positions . Everyone knows this . At least this is my impression from the US . You do n't say which country , so it 's unclear who might be funding your position if you 're eventually accepted . It 's also unclear if you apply to the university , department , or professor directly . This might have some slight influence on whether you tell A and B about your cross applications . If they are going to be meeting together in committee to decide about applications , it might be better if everyone knows that you 've applied to work with two different professors but really only once to the university . If each professor has sole discretion as to whom they hire , and only they see the application , then it probably does n't matter .
Absolutely you can add a coauthor in revision , if there is good reason for doing so : in fact , I have recently done so myself on a paper where revision involved some new experiments with the aid of a colleague not previously involved . Most journals that I know consider authorship changes routine and even explicitly support such changes by asking you to review and , if necessary , modify author lists as part of submitting a revision through their system .
Yes , it is fair . The quality of reviews written by highly experienced researchers is low . Many manuscripts have obvious flaws that should be spotted by the inexperienced . Reviewers are ( in theory ) supervised by the editor . Novice reviewers are more enthusiastic than experienced reviewers . If the paper can not be understood by a PhD student , it will not be useful to very many people . PhD students may have more specialized expertise because they work on fewer projects , as compared to senior researchers ( per @nayrb ) Of course , it depends on the individual PhD student . Some are better prepared to review than others .
Good on you ! I have a relatively simple suggestion : do a replication study . First , find a collaborator -- a fellow high school student or college student of similar skill and experience . You 'll learn more in a team than doing it alone . Second , read a dozen or so research papers ( probably conference papers ) in the field or sub-field that interests you the most . Pick one , preferably the simplest one you can find . Your goal is to replicate the methods as described in the paper and compare your results to theirs . ( Do n't pick one where you have access to their code . ) Once you have a paper picked out ( or a few ) , recruit an adviser/mentor -- either a college professor or an experienced researcher . You 'll want to meet with your adviser/mentor weekly to talk about progress and problems you encounter along the way . Mostly , this weekly meeting holds you and your partner accountable for progress . In my field ( Computational Social Science ) there are many simulation models that are simple enough to be replicated from their specification . This varies widely in subfields of Computer Science , so your mileage may vary . The point to all this is to get you an experience in the realm of research without requiring that you first go through all the preliminaries . By focusing on replicating one paper , you only need to understand the material and methods in this one paper . You are n't trying to break any new ground . Instead , you are following in the footsteps of other researchers . If they have done their job well , then you should be able to replicate their results . Replication is a valuable scientific endeavor in itself .
Based on what I 've heard and seen , most schools fall into the second pattern , with the first and third happening much less frequently . However , I 've known all three possibilities to occur . Ultimately , there is no " most likely " or " least likely " option , as it really depends on the rules for tenure promotions at the individual school at which the applicant is being hired .
At my large R1 state university in the U.S. , it might be impossible to get tenure without having an active grant at the time , even with an otherwise excellent record , since mathematics faculty disinterested ( or hostile to whatever the specialty or person in question might be ) would use this as grounds for doubting the quality . After all , supposedly , all the best people are funded . Supposedly , endorsement by the NSF ( or NSA ) is an external , objective test of quality . This is certainly a convenient assumption for arguments in certain directions . EDIT : and since a strong super-majority is needed for a " positive " tenure vote , even irrational ranting can sway otherwise uninformed or disinterested people to scuttle the vote . Issues of external funding are apparently even more identified with research activity by engineers ( and experimental scientists ) , who often dominate the college-wide tenure ( and promotion ) committees . That is , it is sometimes apparently unimaginable that a person would be doing research without a grant . Further , at my university , in other hard-science departments , often large grants are allowed to " buy out " faculty from any teaching at all . This is rare in my math department . EDIT : thus , in the minds of some engineers , " teaching " is stigmatized , since in their own depts it 's only the disenfranchised who have to do any of it . And then there 're the wildly different paper-count standards for experimental science/engineering versus mathematics . The literal " funding of research " usually is less critical , apart from the expense of travelling to conferences , and extra summer salary .
It varies tremendously , based on the type of talk . To a first approximation , anyone can invite a speaker if they have grant funding to pay for the travel costs ( or if there are no costs ) . The limiting factor is getting an audience - it 's embarrassing for everyone if few people show up - so this typically happens only if it 's clear there will be real interest in a talk . Departments in research universities typically have a number of ongoing seminar series , and often a departmental colloquium as well . There will be one or more organizers for each of these , who invite speakers and introduce them before the talks . How the organizers are chosen varies : sometimes they are volunteers , sometimes they are appointed by the chair , and sometimes they got a grant that 's paying for everything . The organizers can then ask whoever they want to speak , although they often solicit suggestions from other department members . There may also be special distinguished visiting positions or lecture series . These are quite a bit more prestigious and speaker selections are often made by a special committee . How far in advance invitations are made can vary : typically many months in advance for a prestigious lecture series , but a seminar invitation may have less advance notice . As for how often an invitation is turned down , it 's rare for someone to express a lack of interest in principle , but it 's common for them to be too busy or for it to be impossible to arrange a mutually agreeable date . I often suggest that someone should come speak sometime in a seminar I organize . Sometimes they immediately start arranging a date , sometimes they defer it to another time but eventually come , and sometimes it never works out , but even in that case it 's never certain it wo n't happen someday . If a speaker ca n't make it , it 's no big deal : you just invite someone else .
Absolutely ! There are a number of talks that I 've given that are n't related to my own research that I consider to be some of my most influential talks . In particular , I think talks about academia in general , or about the publication system , or recently , a talk about open access and open science . Taking the time to speak to younger academics about things about which you are passionate ( like for me , preprint servers like arxiv.org and biorxiv.org ) is very important . I have also had the opportunity to give a few talks not even at academic institutions that I consider to be worthy of ' academic credit ' . Specifically , I spoke at TEDMED a few years ago , talking about the medical education system , which you can see here : <URL> and also at an event called Pint of Science ( pintofscience - podcasts from me and many others here : <URL> ) . I 've been asked more about these talks at interviews than any others ! I think especially in a world where all academics applying for jobs/tenure have excellent CVs , having some ' non-academic ' stuff on there can help you stand apart - and show another dimension of you that folks could be interested in .
Updated to address comments . If Project XYZ is simply a funding agency or entity that may have provided funds or materials but no intellectual contribution , then you use the phrase " We acknowledge Agency XYZ ( Grant # ) for financial support " or " Funding provided through Project XYZ ( Grant # ) . " For example , if your work is supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health ... " Funding for this work was provided by the NIH , Center for Work on Really Interesting Science ( # 1234567890 ) ... " If project XYZ has defined the research problem/scope , you could say " This research was inspired by Project XYZ " or " This research follows from Porject XYZ . " If Project XYZ is an institute , center , or other entity that worked with you on your project , then you use the phase " in collaboration with " . For example , if your computational model was run on at the <URL> , you might say : " This work was conducted in collaboration with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center [ ref ] ... " Lastly , if the intellectual contribution from someone at Project XYZ was large , that person needs to have their name on your paper ( with placement in the order according to the customs of your field ) : Grad Student who did the work * , Grad Student who did less work * , Grad Student at Project XYZ # , Collaborating PI at Project XYZ # , Your PI * Affiliations :
Just do n't . As an applicant to a scientific PhD program , if you were n't doing a lot of scientific reading , that would just be weird . Thinking it 's something special to be reading scientific literature every day , is a small warning sign in itself . And the interests section is there to indicate some kind of balanced personality and the existence of a life away from narrow study .
Rtisan is probably right about a local conference carrying somewhat less weight and prestige on a CV . However , there are some other benefits of presenting at a local conference : It 's usually free . With the travel money you save , you can attend another conference far away later on . Now you have two conference talks on your CV instead of just one . ( In other words , " present locally " versus " present far away " is probably a false dichotomy . Even if the local conference conflicts with a faraway conference , there is very likely another faraway conference in the near future that 's just as good . And if the conflicting faraway conference is , like , the one and only awesomest conference in your field , then the organizers of your local conference probably should n't have scheduled theirs to conflict with it . ) Less travel : you get to save a day or two of travel time , sleep in your own bed , see your family , etc. . This may make the conference much more relaxing . Being the attraction : People may be saying to themselves : " Hey , there 's a conference at Podunk University . I think that 's where gman works , so I 'm sure he 'll be there . I was just reading his paper and it will be great to hear his talk and ask him questions . " Networking : as a local at a conference , people are more likely to want to talk to you . For instance , " Hey gman , you live here , can you recommend a good restaurant in town ? Would you like to join us for dinner ? " The opportunity to talk to other researchers informally can be very valuable to a career . Even fielding mundane questions like " How do I connect to the wifi ? Where is Room NNN ? Can you help me turn on the projector ? " can start good conversations . ( Make sure you know the answers to these questions ! ) It can be harder to initiate interactions like this when you are a stranger in a strange city . Help organize : Try to join the organizing committee , or at least offer to help them out . Organizing a local conference is a lot of work , and by contributing to this you will gain the appreciation of your colleagues . It 's also valuable experience , and " conference co-organizer " is a nice line to have on a CV . Finally , conference organizers tend to have more contact with the visiting participants , contributing to Networking as above .
You forget one consideration : do you enjoy using that skill ? To take your own example , I enjoy programming , and even though I might not learn or get anything technical from it , I enjoy solving someone 's else problem with some lines of code :) Of course , one should be careful of the time spent and the reward you can get from it , but doing something you enjoy is very different than doing something you can , but do n't particularly enjoy doing . For instance , I can probably install a server and manage a website ( with a CMS ) for someone , but I do n't enjoy it , so I would be very explicit about the benefit ( I do that for you if you do that for me ) . But I could do some cool coding on my free time . On a completely different aspect , it also depends if you intend to stay in academia : it 's a very small world , and the person you 're doing a favor to today might be the one sitting on your tenure committee in 20 years ( if you work in the same department and all stay in academia , it 's quite likely that your paths will cross again at some point in the future ) .
end question
start question
How to write a brief author biography for a journal article ?
Ca n't you look at author biographies from other papers in that journal ?
I think I have a similar process to the one described by Artem ( apart from the popular talk , which I never had the opportunity to do ) . In any case , I never write a script . Actually , for my first talk in English , during my first year of PhD , I learned the talk by heart , which was terrible , and made me finish the talk in 12 minutes instead of the 20 minutes . However , I try to carefully prepare my transitions , especially between different parts of the talk . I find it particularly annoying when a speaker finishes a part with a blank , moves to the next slide , and says something like " OK , next section now " . Moreover , I usually include in a transition a brief summary of the key points of the previous section , and the motivation to go to the next section , which ensures that I do n't forget any important point . About how early should the preparation be ready , it depends on the kind of talks . For a 20/25 minutes conference talk presenting a paper , I usually already have a pretty clear idea of what I want to present and how to structure it ( since I wrote the paper ) , so I start the slides about a week before the conference , have a decent draft 2 or 3 days before ( i.e. the final number of slides , the correct titles ) , and the final version the day before . As Artem 's said , after a while , you can project pretty accurately the duration of a talk from your slides , so there is no need to repeat to make sure you are in time . For a 45/50 minutes seminar-kind talk , it 's a bit trickier , because usually the audience is not the same as the one at a conference , and it 's harder not to bore them . So I start preparing the slides about a month before , but only to get the outline , and I start working on the talking part , not so much the slides , to try to find nice ways to present the ideas ( such as nice examples , nice analogies ) . So , in summary , to answer your questions : It is not very common ( I actually do n't know anyone who does it ) . It can help if the speaker is very nervous , and tends to forget a lot of important things ( which often disappears with experience ) . It depends on the experience , and the ability to evaluate your presentation . If you feel very confident , you can start preparing the presentation the night before . But in general , I 'd say that something between a week before and the day before is good . EDIT : As aeismail mentioned , my answer is quite subjective , and just describe what works for me and for some people I know . However , just one point I would add , concerning the " awkward pauses " : I think that the quality of my presentations has tremendously increased when I stopped preparing my presentation around my slides , but the other way around . So I dropped all sentences like " this slide presents ... " , " on this slide , we have the definition ... " , etc. . Actually , I even try not to say the words that are on the slides . I do n't know if my presentation are better for the audience , but at least , I feel much more comfortable with them .
Sentence casing would be my personal choice , but actually it is just a matter of preference . Academic CVs exist in either title casing or sentence casing in publications . Both are prevalent in practice . Whatever be your choice , make sure it is consistent throughout the CV .
( this is rather long : I wrote it for one of my students , who had a similar question ) BASIC UNDERSTANDING When you 're processing a paper , ask yourself : what is their precise problem formulation what is their solution what larger issue are they trying to address with their paper Do ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) actually fix ( 3 ) ( for experimental papers ) do the experiments tell a convincing story to bolster their claims . Be suspicious of what they claim unless the line of reasoning is clear . SYNTHESIS Once you 've done this for a set of papers , you should start trying to connect them together : is there a linear progression of ideas ? How do the tools connect up Is there some way to simplify and explain what groups of papers are doing under a common theme ? CRITIQUE Once you have the above , then you can ask what are the gaps in what people are doing Are these gaps important or minor ? Does some union of the papers essentially solve the problem ? if so , why and if not , why not ? Are these papers even solving the right problem ? ( this last point is both tricky and critical - it is very easy for a line of research to be internally consistent but get totally derailed from the original motivation for the problem ) DIRECTIONS Now you 're ready to suggest new directions and new ideas . note that critique comes AFTER basics and synthesis - you must understand very well before you can judge .
Disclaimer : I base my answer on my familiarity with the IEEE . Other societies may follow similar conventions . For members of the IEEE , the notation in your example is a " shorthand " way for indicating when the author achieved a certain membership status within the society . For example , ( S ' 73-M ' 76-SM ' 81-F ' 87 ) means that A. N. Author became a Student Member ( S ) in 1973 , a Member ( M ) in 1976 , a Senior Member ( SM ) in 1981 , and an IEEE Fellow ( F ) in 1987 . If you are not a member of the IEEE , then you do not use this shorthand in your biography .
In the journal where I am an associate editor , there is an unofficial policy that editors do not review . The reason for this is simple and pragmatic : if somebody is an editor , they are doing a whole bunch of work of the journal in that capacity . Asking them to review as well is double-duty , and the journal wants to spread the service load more broadly over the community . Now , there are special cases where an editor will do a review , particularly when there is difficulty obtaining a sufficient number of qualified reviewers . In my experience , though , this is rarely due to difficulty finding people with sufficient knowledge to review , even in highly specialized fields . Instead , it is most likely to happen with a certain species of dreary borderline paper that is very badly presented but possibly salvageable -- confronted with such a beast , reviewers suddenly all become " too busy at the present time " and an editor may end up having to review it themselves . So , returning to your question : I would suggest not bothering to suggest an editor as a reviewer . If you have a choice to suggest a handling editor , that 's fine , but your suggestion of editor as reviewer is likely to be simply ignored .
How good is your data ? If you truly have amazing unpublished data that could readily form the basis for multiple top tier publications , then with some persistence you should be able to find academics who are interested in writing publications based on that data . However , are you able to truly judge the suitability of your data for academic publications ? In general , if you are not in academia , you are likely to have a poor to modest understanding of what makes a great dataset . For example , I sometimes work with industry datasets that look at the characteristics of workers ( traits , job performance and so on ) . There are all sorts of academic reasons why a given dataset ( that the consultant may think is interesting ) will not yield a good publication : e.g. , the sample size is too small ; there were issues with data collection ; the measures used are insufficiently reliable or valid ; the measures used do not map onto the theoretical constructs in the literature ; the questions that can answered by the dataset have been examined many times already in the literature ; the meta data is incomplete . Even if you have a dataset that could be used for a publication , there is still the issue of whether the dataset is good enough to persuade an academic to work on it . In general , more established academics have a large collection of studies and datasets sitting around waiting to be potentially written up . In this case , the academic is likely to strategically prioritise their publications in terms of some sort of effort-reward trade-off . So , your dataset needs to not only be publishable but sufficiently aligned and interesting to an academic to persuade them to work on it . Thus , my advice would be to start to connect with a few academics in order to assess how suitable the datasets are for publication . How to find a suitable academic ? There are many strategies for finding a academic who might be interested in analysing your data for publication . Ideally , you 'd have a sense of the kinds of publications that could be obtained from the data , and therefore which academics are working on these topics . A targeted email to some of these people explaining the data you have and your interests in sharing for publication should help to start a conversation . You can then have skype chat or face to face chats ( with people in your city ) . If you 're lucky you might have existing social networks with existing academics ( e.g. , where you did your studies , or in your town ) . As you interact with these academics , you can get a better understanding of whether the data is suitable for publication . Also , if you have good data , but the first few academics are not interested in it , such academics may be able to refer you to other academics who are interested . You also mention that you want " experienced researchers " to write the papers . In this regard , there is a trade-off . More high-profile researchers are more capable of getting quality work published . However , they also have many more opportunities . So there is a trade-off . For example , early career researchers may be more interested in your data , if they 've had less time to obtain a broad range of research options . Your dataset might also be useful to form part of a PhD project . How to negotiate co-authorship ? Based on respected criteria for co-authorship ( E.g. , <URL> ) , merely providing data is not sufficient to warrant co-authorship . You generally need to contribute to some degree to the writing and conception of the paper . That said , if you make co-authorship a condition of sharing your data , then academics are free to take or leave your proposal . If collecting the data in itself involved some degree of academic contribution and you also agree to contribute to the writing and analysis process ( even if not leading ) , then such a proposal is likely to be more palatable to academics .
At least in my field , it 's rather uncommon to mention an author 's name in a paper . Rather it is something along the lines of the following ( somewhat depending on the citation style ) : Ref . [ 42 ] showed that discombobulators can facilitate banana transmogrification . Recently it was shown that discombobulators can facilitate banana transmogrification [ 42 ] . Recently it was shown that discombobulators can facilitate banana transmogrification ( He et al. , 2014 ) . That does not mean that it would be wrong to mention an author by name , but I would find a paper that intensively does so somewhat strange -- even if the paper heavily builds upon this author 's work . At least I would find it totally acceptable if such an author was mentioned only once or twice . So as a first step , I suggest to change your writing style as to mention He and other authors less often . If you have a whole paragraph where you refer to He 's work in every sentence , it should suffice to mention this in the first sentence , e.g. , like this : The method we are proposing is an extension of the method proposed by He [ 42 ] , which briefly works as follows : [ ... ] Mentioning any author in such a paragraph repeatedly , let alone always at the beginning of a sentence is something that I would consider bad style anyway . Be sure to check as to whether this is not totally uncommon in your field . For the remaining occurrences of He 's name , rephrase the sentences such that the name does not occurr at the beginning of a sentence such that it does not happen at the beginning of a sentence or after an abbrevation . Capitalisation should suffice to make the distinction here . You may hold some subconscious ideal that it should be possible to tackle such issues without rephrasing sentences , but it 's a totally viable approach . Also , as explained before , this should at most apply to a few sentences . Some thoughts on alternatives and what I consider problematic about them : Mentioning the author 's full name . This is still likely to cause confusion , in particular among those who do not see the issue and wonder why this author is mentioned with a first name . Also , in some situations , the reader may not be aware that the first and last name actually belong together . Prepending the initialised first name of the author . This makes reading your text even more difficult , as one will likely think at first that a sentence ends after D. He 's first name , in particular if it 's grammatically plausible such as in this sentence .
When you change job , you do n't erase your memory ( well , not in all jobs ) , nor do you all your responsibilities related to this previous job vanish . It is true that leaving a position creates certain obligations in the data you can retain , and how you can use non-publicly available information pertaining to your older institution . However , in the particular case of a reference letter , I do n't think it should cause trouble . Moreover , reference letters are confidential . Actually , I 'd go further than saying it should not be a problem . In fact , I think if you can honestly write him a good recommendation letter , it is part of your responsibility to do it . This responsibility is not to your former institution , but to the student and the academic system as a whole .
About your first question , I do n't really know if there is a difference , or if those are just different terms referring to the same document . In context of a training program done at my university , one of our assignments was to write a personal teaching statement . We had several inputs to help us in doing this task , and one I found particularly useful was the following list of questions ( credit to the Staff Development Unit of Newcastle University ) : What Higher Education is for : what are students supposed to learn or how are they supposed to develop whilst studying ? How do you think students learn in your discipline , or in aspects of it ? ( You may of course be part of an inter-disciplinary area ) So , based on ( 1 . ) and ( 2 . ) what teaching methods do you use that reflect this position ( with examples ) ? What has informed your thinking here ( experience , literature , colleagues , students ) ? You can note that 1 , 2 and 4 do not require strictly speaking to have teaching experience ( although it 's clearly helpful ) . For the point 3 , you can replace the " do you use " by " could you use " , and that should work . Two aspects of this assignment that were really important for us were to use pedagogy literature ( as Dave Clarke pointed out ) and to be reflective . Of course , such an assignment is not necessarily evaluated as would be a teaching statement by a recruiting committee , but I think the point was that , as a young academic , you can not really be expected to be an expert in teaching . But you are expected to learn how to become one , and to reflect on your past experiences , interactions , discussions , etc , in order to improve your practice .
If your collaborator is not technically inclined , then there are a few possibilities : <URL> It is very simple , robust and real-time ( no need of thinking ' which version is the most recent ' ) . I created a lot of documents with it ( though only 1 scientific article ) . A good idea is to use different colours so that it is clear who wrote what . One drawback is that it may be not as simple for equations and than you will need to copy things from there to LateX manually . Annotating PDF files with <URL> or sth equivalent Also simple and robust . However , as it is not real-time you need to keep track of which version is current and it is not possible to make changes in the same time . Here you are the only person responsible for changes in LaTeX file . Annotating or changing with <URL> , MS Word or another office package ... Another variant which allows you collaborator to make direct changes , at cost of some robustness . As a practical remark for the two last : always keep track of the version , e.g. , where you add both date of the last edit ( not ! ) and name of the last editor . When exchanging things by e-mail it is easy to loose track which version is the most recent and in fact lost changes ( often not knowing about that . ) Other possibilities , requiring some technical knowledge : <URL> or sth similar ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> - the one using GoogleDocs , ... ) Tools for editing documents collaboratively ( in real-time ) and compile it within one 's browser ( so no need to install anything ) . Though some knowledge of LaTeX is required ( at least to know how not to spoil a file ) . ScribTeX ( the only one I used ) gives version control and you can see which lines were changed ( as in version control system ) , so not need of guessing what might have been changed . EDIT : ScribTeX is being replaced by ShareLaTeX . writeLaTeX has live preview and may be the most suitable for beginners . <URL> or another version-control system , e.g. at <URL> However , it may require technical skills beyond edition of LaTeX . While it is not hard to use it , I never did <URL> it for writing papers and I would never try to use it with someone with low computer literacy . When it comes to <URL> - it is a good stuff for sharing files for a project but NOT for making changes in files . First , you never know when the changes happen . Second , you do n't know where the changes happen . There is also an article on it : <URL> . See also a few questions : <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL>
If we momentarily disregard from discussions regarding the cons of ISI and Thomson-Reuters who run the service etc. and focus on the usefulness of ISI indexed journals for ones career , the answer is yes , at least to some extent . The importance is in part depending on your discipline since ISI indexing is not evenly distributed over disciplines . But generally speaking the ISI listing means the journal publishes papers that are referenced , which is an indication that it is research of some quality and importance . This does not mean non-ISI-listed journals are not " honourable " . But , when choosing a journal in which to publish , you need to make sure it is read by other in your field so that your research is seen and your ideas known by others . You should make a survey of journals that are of reference and if you find ISI-listed journals there is a reason to consier them if your papers fulfl their quality criteria because they will be seen as presigeous references when you are evaluated for a position etc. .
The point of a survey paper of the type you are discussion ( as distinct from a systematic review ) , is to provide an organized view of the current state of the field . As such , you should not be attempting to cite every paper , but only the ones that are significant ( which will still be an awful lot ) . Writing a good survey paper is hard , and there really are n't any good shortcuts : you do need to become familiar with the content of a very large number of papers , in order to make sure that the view you are presenting is sane . My suggestion , based on my own experience in this area , is to use the following iterative process : Begin by collecting a large pile of papers to survey . Based on your experience and a few initial readings , hypothesize an organization schema for the field . Start reading ( mostly skimming ) and organizing your collection of papers you read using this schema , including noting which ones are most important and which do not fit the schema well . As you find significant numbers of papers that do not fit the schema well , adjust the schema to better fit what you are actually finding and shift the organization of your collection to match . Add new papers to the " to be read " collection based on the adjusted schema , then return to reading and organizing . When the process converges to a stable schema and an empty to-be-read pile , you will have a well-developed view of the current state of the field and be in a good position to write a survey . Note , however , that this may take a number of months ...
As far as I 'm aware there is no obligation to provide a translation of a published paper from one language to another . I think it would be rude to ask for a translation of a paper . However , it would generally be fine to enquire as to whether such a translation exists , or whether similar work has been published in English . More broadly , it may be in the author 's interests to provide an English translation in order to increase the impact of his or her work . If the work is really important to you , you could always pay for a translation . At the extreme end , perhaps where there are a large number of important works in a particular language , you may even want to learn the language .
Ideally , you 'll discuss the first few letters you write with a mentor , who can offer feedback and keep you from writing an ineffective letter ( getting advice certainly helped me tremendously ) . The same situation can come up again later in your career , for example the first time you write a letter for a liberal arts college if you are used to recommending people for jobs at research universities . If you are n't confident that you can write an effective letter in certain circumstances , then you should seek advice from someone with more experience , even if you are used to writing other sorts of letters . Serving on hiring and admissions committees is extremely valuable , both in figuring out what people reading letters want to know , and in calibrating how strong the competition is and how much enthusiasm one should express in any given case . Trial and error does not seem useful , at least in my experience . There 's just too much randomness in the decision-making progress and too many unknown factors that differ between students . Writing good letters also gets easier with age , as you develop more experience and have a broader basis for comparison . As an incoming faculty member , you have n't seen how careers progress over time , and you 've never had the experience of finding out which of the smart young people you know will live up to or exceed their early promise and which will not . Of course you 'll never be able to predict this with certainty , but over time you 'll start to see patterns , and you 'll be able to make more nuanced and illuminating comparisons in letters .
When you cite an article it does not mean that your work stands on the cited article in its entirety but rather it might be a particular result , an interpretation or an interesting question someone else has come up with before you . Let look at it like this : you ( Y ) cite a finding ( f1 ) by a person/group in some paper ( P1 ) , who in turn cites another finding ( f2 ) some other person/group in some paper ( P2 ) . later turns out that something in P2 does not add up and the paper gets retracted . The interesting question is whether or not the mistake or error etc in P2 is related to your work . If : scientific grounds for f2 is still valid despite the error that causes the retraction , or your f1 is independent of f2 then you are essentially safe , since the reasons for retraction does not reflect on your work/findings . In other words , you have not built your work on erroneous foundation . That beings said , I can only assume that citing a retracted paper is n't particularly nice , and if you can avoid it ( if someone else has also mentioned that same finding without going through the retracted paper ) then it 's probably better . Hope this was n't all too convoluted . . I had to rewrite it a couple of times already :)
This is a fairly simple assignment . To answer your questions : Obviously your name and class information should appear at the top of the assignment ( unless otherwise instructed by the professor ) . The " title and authors " referred to by the professor are in reference to the paper that you are discussing , not you ! You are told to write in complete paragraphs . That means no bullet lists , so write everything as complete , well-structured sentences . Spacing and font are up to you , but in general , I 'd use at least 1.5 times normal spacing and 11 pt or larger font ( unless you 're working with LaTeX , in which case the formatting is handled for you ) .
I would say co-first author : First authorship is more important : if a professor both led the work and made the biggest contribution to the paper , they will generally choose first authorship rather than last authorship . Early in your career , making a big contribution to the research itself is likely to be most important , and first authorship shows that . The " last author " signifying the leader of the work is less widespread ( <URL> ) . Even in fields that use this convention , it is not always used . Thus , your last authorship might not mean as much . Especially if someone knows you are not a professor leading your own lab , they might not give you much credit for this . " co-first authorship " is a clear idea : you are one of two people who equally made the largest contributions to the work . But " co-last authorship " is not so clear . What does it mean ? Especially if the other last author is the professor who runs the lab ? It 's not clear what this would say about your contribution . Of course this is referring to fields where authorship ranking by contribution is used ; this is n't universal .
That 's pretty common , a lot of journals offer to move your submission to other journals of the same publishers . Why do they do it ? Well , if they think that publication is worth anything ( will get cited ... ) they can indirectly make money with that , so the publisher wants to have it . Now why would n't they just accept it then ? There are two reasons . One would be it 's not good enough for that journal but it 's good enough for another , which does n't seem to be the case here . The second one would be that it does n't fit into that journal for whatever reason ( likely here ) . In both cases they will offer you the possibility of that other journal . For Wiley an example would be Angewandte Chemie and Chemistry - A European Journal . The latter is somehow a collecting tank for rejected publications in Angewandte Chemie and it 's also the journal for Full Papers , as Angewandte Chemie does only accept Communications . ( And well , all the editors there are in a certain field of chemistry , so nowadays submissions which were in scope some years ago now get rejected with " not in scope " ... )
First , look at previous press releases from your institution and department . This may give you ideas . But use the press release as an opportunity to speak to the public about things you deserve to be publicized . You 're right , it does n't have to be about you , but getting the fellowship is the award that gives you an opportunity to speak up about things you care . Press releases often contain quotes . In this case these could be quotes of other people talking about your involvement in a program you helped launch , or a quote of yourself praising whatever it is you want to praise . In short : use that opportunity to promote something you believe in , in addition to pro outing yourself !
end question
start question
What should a student look for in an undergraduate thesis topic/supervisor ?
I am in math , and have some experience with undergrad research ( from both sides ) , and there are lots of different ways you could have a good experience with undergrad research . What would be good for you will depend a lot on your individual situation ( mathematical maturity , background , independence , etc ) and your goals ( do you want to get a paper out of it ? just get some research experience ? learn something new ? help your case for grad schools ? ) . For getting into a good grad school , what 's most important is how well prepared you are in terms of background and how much potential you show . This is evidenced by your transcript and recommendation letters . Doing novel research or writing a paper is much less important ( unless it 's much more impressive than typical undergrad math research ) . ( Note : many undergrad theses in math are just an exposition of an important topic . Some of these are very good . ) So in terms of grad school , the most important thing out of this project will probably be ( 1 ) what you learn , and ( 2 ) the impression you make on your supervisor , who should write you a recommendation . For being able to get a paper out of it , research is never certain , but it 's important that the project is well thought out beforehand . More open-ended projects may sound interesting , and teach you a lot , but may not be conducive to having a finished project in the time available . I generally find ones that involve some calcutions/computation have a higher rate of " success , " in the sense you should at least be able to do the calculations , whereas projects that require you to develop some theory may just leave you completely stumped . ( Though some types of theoretical projects where you can follow the method of another paper closely also have high rates of success . Conversely , try to stay away from projects of the form " look for pattern in this data . " ) Hopefully you can get a sense of how well thought out the project is from the description ; also knowing how successful the supervisor was with previous students may suggest this person gives high-percentage or low-percentage success problems ( but if you 're more concerned about grad school , where the students went for grad school is more important than if they published papers ) . For learning things ( which helps with grad school ) , a project where you have to learn some theory ( even if just to do computations ) is better . Both to make progress and to learn things , an accessible advisor ( say is willing to meet you once a week or so ) is better . Apart from that , I would say put some value in your general impression from talking to the potential supervisor . If you have a chance to talk to former students of the supervisor , that could also be useful .
In my opinion and experience , it is relatively rare for an MSc thesis to yield truly original research resulting in a paper . The primary goal of a MSc thesis is to teach you important research skills : come up with a general idea of what to do , researching literature , coming up with a specific question that you want to address , performing research ( computations , fieldwork , lab experiments ) , and finally writing it down in a thesis . If you successfully complete this cycle , I think your MSc thesis is a success . If the thesis , after some editing , is original enough to end up as a journal paper this is a big bonus .
How long does it usually take to publish a first research paper ? That question depends on a lot of factors . Here are a few of them : What is the significance of your research ? How much of your research is unique , novel , and relevant ? Will other computer scientists be interested in your findings ? How well can you write ? How well can you organize your paper ? Where do you intend to publish ? Some conferences and publications are more competitive than others . ( Put another way , some have a lower acceptance rate than others . ) Much of that depends on who sponsors the conference or publication . First , you have to do the research ( this is not trivial ) . Significant findings need to come from that research ( this does n't always happen ) . You have to write that in a way that will appeal to the community ( the community can be rather fickle sometimes ) . Lastly , you have to find some venue where the work can be presented ( it 's not always easy to find a good match ) . If a paper gets rejected , it could be because : The research does n't report anything new or significant The research does n't report anything of interest to the community The paper is poorly written The paper does n't cite other related research , leading to a credibility problem There simply was n't room for your paper in the publication , or it was n't a good match for that venue Getting back to your original question , you might be able to publish in a year , if everything goes very smoothly . However , that 's a huge " IF . " Even established researchers can spend years getting ready for a publication , only to see it be rejected by a committee . Publication can be a long and arduous process , with plenty of opportunities for obstacles , setbacks , and dead ends . It can be very hard to estimate a timetable , particularly for a first-timer going from start to finish . Your best bet might be to see what 's going on at your university , and see if you can get involved with an established , ohgoing research effort . Before you do that , it might be worth doing a self-evaluation first , so that you 're prepared to tell a faculty member what you can offer the research team . For example , perhaps you 're a crack programmer , and a research project at your institution needs some software written , in order to complete an experiment or simulation . That might be a more realistic way to get started as a researcher .
I have had some pretty good success advising undergrads by : Making sure that the problem is extremely well-defined . That is , do n't throw them into the water and see if they swim . Think a lot about what the expected outcome will be , and what the foreseeable steps , challenges and problems will be . Yes , this is a lot of work and means that you could ( almost ) " do the work yourself " in the same time , but for undergrads you can typically not yet expect that you can just drop them a research question and see them run with it . Have regular meetings . Make sure that there is progress , and if there is n't , make sure that you know what the blocking issues are . Do n't expect them to necessarily come to you first with any issues . In my experience , undergrads often are a bit shy about asking for help , and sometimes get stuck on ( for you ) relatively easy problems unnecessarily . Make sure that you would be able to do the project yourself given enough time . I know that this is somewhat controversial , but for grad students , I am perfectly happy to accept projects where I myself would n't know how to do every part myself . That is , I expect a grad student to be able to solve her/his own problems . For undergrads , I do not do this . I want to be able to help undergrads in a meaningful way if they get stuck , technically . Conversely , make sure that the work is not just random grunt work . In my experience , the best way to make sure that the undergrad research project is not interesting for the student is by letting them do something that everybody else either considers unimportant or terribly tedious to do . Undergrads are not yet experienced , but they are still colleagues and not some sort of scientific minions . Somewhat related : make sure that you are excited about the project , or at the very least be able to convincingly pretend that you are . Again , having the feeling that nobody cares about their project is a surefire way to make for a terrible research experience . Integrate the undergrads into the lab . When there are talks , the undergrads are invited ( i.e. , expected to come ) . When the grad students are expected to regularly speak in the internal seminar , the undergrads need to do this as well . If there is a regular lab beer night , the undergrads are invited as well . If the lab usually goes to lunch together , the undergrads are asked to come along . You get the idea . If at all possible , give them a fixed work place in the lab , and require them to be there at least some percent of the time . To summarize , the best undergrad projects in my lab always worked on a well-defined project , which was still an integral part of the research agenda for the lab that others were enthusiastic about . On concrete example from my research : some members of my lab are currently working on benchmarking compute cloud providers . That typically means hacking up some automation scripts , deploying benchmarks , gathering some data , and analysing the results . This is rather tedious and error-prone work . Hence , I got a computer science bachelor student to build a web-based platform , which students could use to define , schedule and execute benchmarks using a relatively simple DSL ( domain-specific language ) . The platform the student built technically was n't terribly complex , but the solution worked well , tackled a common community problem , and most importantly saved multiple grad students a ton of time . We also published the tool as open source software and wrote a small paper about it , allowing to student to go to a conference to another continent . During the conference , a number of professors asked the student for details on his tool , and expressed interest to also use it for their research .
I had to submit undergraduate and graduate transcripts to several schools each time I applied for jobs in mathematics . I believe the main reason is simply to allow the school to verify that you really have the credentials you claim . There have been examples where faculty and administrators were caught claiming credentials that they did not possess , so schools are more cautious about such things now . The same is true for background checks - many schools now run a background check before they make an official job offer . At my institution , when we have a mathematics job search we do n't really look at the grades on the transcripts . The cover letter , reference letters , teaching statement , and research statement are scrutinized , but the transcripts just get a cursory glance to make sure the person has the right coursework ( e.g. if we want to hire someone in a specific subfield , we might check that they have coursework in that subfield ) .
Full disclosure : I originally planned to go to medical school , but things happened and I received an MS in CS instead . The question on whether you should attend weighs heavily on something you have n't clearly specified : how serious is medicine for you ? If you 're just " Oh , I might do something medically related and want to attend " feel free to attend . However , unless you 're actually studying biology or other related medical topics , this conference will not provide you very much besides being a CV stuffer . Both medicine and CS alone are full-time education paths . If you 're learning 10 CS courses for 1 intro to biology course , then I would say medicine is not really an associated topic of study . I would say , at the very least , you should have enough credits to have a minor in Biology or some other medically related field to indicate an actual understanding of the medical field . If you are super-interested in the topic of medicine and feel that " Yes , this is what I want to do , " then this is a program you should attend . You will meet people , make connections , and possibly end up doing research with them . The conference is a source of opportunities . You have to back up that dedication with actually learning biology , chemistry , and physiology . Like any set of study , learning medicine is a commitment . That being said , medicine and computer science together tends to be more towards the Bio-Medical Engineering field . Or Bioinformatics , both of which are graduate-level programs as well . Plenty of things in these fields , like robo-surgery or automated diagnosis , and all great research-friendly topics . Electronic medical records software and clinical trials software , however , medical knowledge is usually not required and can be provided by people trained in the medical field .
I would like for students to rapidly acquire flexible , durable analysis skills . Your criteria are quite stringent ! I think you are going to have to compromise at some point along the line . If you want them to acquire the skills rapidly , then they are probably going to have to use menu-based software , which will be limited in its flexibility . The long-term and more flexible solution would be for the students to learn statistical programming , but that of course has a steep learning curve . In my opinion , R has a lot of advantages . [ I imagine you have already come across it , so I may be stating the obvious here and you may have a good reason for ruling it out , but ... ] It is free and open source , and therefore once learnt , the skill can be taken anywhere . It 's massively flexible when you take into account all of the add-on packages Students can " ease " into it using R commander , which gives a menu-based interface but also outputs the corresponding code . It is popular and therefore very well resourced . The best compromise that I can think of would be to start the students off using the menu-based R commander package , but encourage them to inspect and customise the code where possible . If you are not able to give training yourself , it would probably be a good idea to arrange for someone else ( either in your department , or pay someone external ) to give a course . There are lots of good self-learning resources available , but a course ought to speed up the learning process . When they see how powerful the software is , it is likely to encourage them to put in the time and effort to learn to use it well .
Ask one of your professors or the administration about what the best course of action is . Most likely , you should publish as affiliated to the university as the work was conducted while you were at university . In any case , you have nothing to lose by doing so .
Most if not all scholarships for studying in Japan are listed in the <URL> brochure published by the Japan Student Services Oganization ( JASSO ) . Most of them are aimed at students enrolled in a degree program at a Japanese university , however . For a short-term visit , there is in particular the <URL> scholarship by JASSO ( which I have received in the past ) . You apply for it through your host university , so do ask them about it if they have not mentioned it to you . Note that the amount is " only " 80,000 JPY per month , which is certainly not enough to live on : the goal is to help cover your costs , not to cover them fully .
Ok I did this before . This is actually quite simple and straightforward , so without sugar coating it , you should have three main parts : Introduction and Conclusion : The reader should be able to go only through your introduction and conclusion chapters , and see what is going on . I 'm hoping you know what chapter numbers they are by now ! Background and Related Work : After introduction you should have a solid background and related work chapter ( s ) . Do n't introduce something that you do n't use and do n't hide some background read here . Ok ok , the last two parts you did n't ask for but I wrote it to be a complete reference for others . Ok now to your questions : ' I 'm a qualified PhD ' chapters ! : Now two to four chapters should be explicitly cover your own work . So : 3.1 Separate theory from practice : I do n't want to see some theory stuff and then suddenly a pipeline to a compiler . It has many advantages in terms of defending it and then correcting it later on if necessary . Also the examiners will see that you are well rounded computer scientist ; therefore you know your practice as well as theory and vice versa . So basically , you do n't want to have an impression on examiners that you just injected theory/practice because you are weak in practice/theory . 3.2 Unify Your approaches : Can you find a common ground between all the techniques you used ? For example , you could have a chapter on code generation techniques , and then group all your work into one chapter . The pitfall here is to repeat the same approach over and over for different models . 3.3 Solid Evaluation : You need a solid evaluation , now that you used different techniques try to honestly evaluate them . Also , more importantly try to write a comparison between all of the techniques used and highlight each individual positive and/or negative outcomes . 3.4 Appendices : Moreover do n't just drop boilerplate code in your own chapters , try to use number of appendix for different parts of your code .
If the student wishes to be self-sufficient in PhD research , then she/he ought to express that the student is competent to do so . There are supervisors who tend to give sufficient freedom for the student to do their research in their own accord . There are some others who feel much more procedural in their approach to build and shape their scholars to their view . Both are actually fine as long as they confirm to the type of their respective students . There are some who require more attention that others , and some others less so . If the student feels that she/he does not require to be spoon fed , then it would be up to the student to show that she/he is capable of producing valuable result by him/herself . The student ought to exhibit active involvement in the research and request for suggestions to the advisor . Here are a few examples . There is this new problem I 've just came across while doing this work . It 's about ... May I look further into this ? or There is an idea I would like to discuss regarding ... Shall I try this one out ? The point is to show how eager you are to be able to do research with lesser support . Of course this might not work all the time ( depending on your advisor ) . This would , however , show how capable you are and is certainly worth a try .
U.S. Immigration Law : While doing a summer internship would be seen as compatible with still being a full-time student because of the extended American summer , if you did the 6-month internship you may have difficulty arguing that you are still a full-time , enrolled student . You need to ask your university foreign student 's office for advice as to how you can retain your F-1 status .1 French Immigration Law : You need to clarify with the French company that you will have a valid visa status while in the EU . University Policy : As with US immigration law , you need to make sure that your status in the program is not interrupted by the internship . 1 . Note that CPT ( Curricular Practical Training ) does not apply as you are not applying to work within the USA . The main concern is that your absence for 6-months is not seen as a disruption of your studies from the perspective of maintaining your F1 visa . Your international students office should be able to advise how to maintain your student status . The bonus is that you should be able to use your OPT year in its full since you did not take a CPT .
While ignoring might be an option as the impact of this student 's report is not so high , not doing anything will educate students that it is okay to plagiarize or follow incorrect citing procedures . As such , which is also as a <URL> , it is best to contact the author of this report and inform him of the issues . ResearchGate does not have the policy to intervene , but if such situation occurs with actual published articles , one can contact the editor of the journal to file a plagiarism complaint , after which further action by the editors will be undertaken .
My rule of thumb -- whether for Bachelor , Master , or PhD theses -- is to assume precisely the level of knowledge the student had when starting to work on this topic . ( I.e. , " How would you like to have had this explained to you ? " )
One approach is follows : Find one or two good recent PhD theses in your chosen area . Read these thoroughly . As you read , write down every question that pops into your mind , write down every time the author states that something is left for future work or needs further investigation . This will have a dual effect . Firstly , you will get a good introduction to a particular research field . Secondly , you will have a bunch of questions that need to be investigated . Prune trivial questions , non-sensible ones , etc. . Next , organize your questions thematically and see whether you can find a common thread to these questions , something that could form the basis of your research . Remove any questions that do not fit will with the others . Based on the remaining questions , formulate a couple of coherent questions that your research could address . Write a plan to address these questions . Work through plan . Write thesis .
Here is one rule of thumb : You should be sufficiently confident with the topic to be able to guide your student to success . This means in particular that you should know the topic in which the student is supposed to work in well enough such that : You are certain that the workload is manageable in the time outlined by the examination regulations . You know that there is enough low hanging fruit in the topic such that it is clear that even a mediocre student should be able to write a thesis that is good enough for the standards of your field and school . There are some types of results that a student may obtain during the thesis work that would suffice for the student to write a great thesis , possibly leading to a subsequent publication ( given interest by the student ) . You think that you can advise the student with the problems that you expect to occur in the scope of the project . You have sufficient time to actually advise the student and in particular have the time to read into the details of the subject in case the student needs some guidance on them . Depending on the field , it is debatable whether it is OK to hand out topics of which the advisor has comparably little knowledge , given that all requirements from the list above are fulfilled . Also , the list above focuses on the minimum requirements . Again , it is debatable whether satisfying all points on the list is enough already ( unless I forgot something important ) . As far as coming up with new thesis topics is concerned : probably everyone has their own approach for this . One way is to collect the ideas that you have in your own research into idea lists , and after some time filtering them by the criteria above .
When you change job , you do n't erase your memory ( well , not in all jobs ) , nor do you all your responsibilities related to this previous job vanish . It is true that leaving a position creates certain obligations in the data you can retain , and how you can use non-publicly available information pertaining to your older institution . However , in the particular case of a reference letter , I do n't think it should cause trouble . Moreover , reference letters are confidential . Actually , I 'd go further than saying it should not be a problem . In fact , I think if you can honestly write him a good recommendation letter , it is part of your responsibility to do it . This responsibility is not to your former institution , but to the student and the academic system as a whole .
This depends entirely on the type of physics you would like to pursue . If you would like to be a theorist , especially in general relativity or quantum field theory , you should learn lots of math , and you will find advanced classes in abstract algebra , topology , and differential geometry quite helpful . However , you say that you are interested in condensed matter . Certainly you will need lots of math , but it is mostly applied math , and you will be taught what you need to know in your graduate physics program . The admissions committee will look favorably upon any double major , but your statement of purpose in you application should speak to how your elective major has influenced how you think about physics , and helped you choose an area of specialty . You should also describe any cross disciplinary research you have done , as this will show that you know how to integrate ideas across fields and bring a new perspective to the department . You can do this with either math or chemistry as a double major , but it seems that chemistry is more closely related to your interests as a physicist , and a solid knowledge there will be beneficial in both graduate school and your career .
Should I have a conversation with him about his working hours ? Yes ! He gets paid to do a job . He does n't do the job . You need to talk to him , even though it 's an uncomfortable situation . Also , you say in a comment : Because the general culture in academia tends to be more like , " Work as many or as few hours as you want as long as you get your work done . " This is true , but you say that he does not get his job done . Frankly , if he only works like 25 hours , even if he would be supremely productive I would still talk to him about his work ethics if he puts in so much less hours than his peers ... and if he is not it 's all the more reason to make sure that he at least tries as hard as the others . If you do n't , the problem is going to be that sooner rather than later many of the 45-hours students are going to wonder why the heck they are actually not enjoying the summer . I have seen in my current group that various bad habits have a tendency to spread like wildfire if the students have the impression that not doing your job is n't in any way frowned upon anyway . If so , how to do it without sounding like a jerk ? In private , without getting emotional or accusatory . Tell him that you have the impression that he works considerably below the amount that was agreed upon , and that you have to ask him to change this . Tell him that you have the impression that his project is not progressing fast enough , and what will happen if he ca n't get it done in time ( you have some course of action in this case , right ? ) . Be prepared that he may counter with some sort of attack against you . For instance , this is a classic in such situations : " Well , since you never have time for me , I do n't know what to do half of the time anyway - so rather than just sit around I leave " . Make sure that you have a good answer in this case .
Disclaimer : This answer may or may not be different in Japan , due to cultural differences . If my answer disagrees with one with experience in Japanese academia , I 'd go with their answer . It may even be different between different labs and fields . But this is based on my experience and also on what I 've seen since in other labs I 've worked in . I was in Australia on a summer internship and I reached out to an academic at a local university who worked in my field of interest , after reading a few of his papers and checking out his website . I informed him that I was an interested potential PhD applicant who was about to enter their final year of undergrad , and I asked him if he 'd have some time available to chat with me in his lab . I attached my CV to the email and wrote a very brief paragraph with my history ( a few sentences ; do n't give them a huge thing to read ) . He replied immediately , very interested , and we scheduled an appointment for some days later . We ended up talking for a few hours and he took me around the lab , and introduced me to everyone . I was 100 % into doing a PhD with them -- it did n't work out for logistical reasons , but this is unrelated . An undergrad taking the interest and initiative to read papers , check out the research , and reach out to potential PIs is considered a very good thing . It means that you are taking the PhD / Masters as the serious and professional endeavour that it is . Especially when the undertaking involves moving to a foreign country , it implies that you are considering not only whether you are a fit in the lab , but also how living in the country could impact you . It 's always considered a good idea to reach out to your potential advisers in some way , and not everyone does this -- many advisers get blind applications . If you meet them , it gives you both a chance to see if you 'd be a good fit -- academically and personally . Both of these matter . If you do n't get along , working with them could be a nightmare ! And that goes both ways . That means that when the PI is looking at the pile of applications at their desk and designating their interest , they have something to look back on . It 's definitely something that will make you stand out . Enthusiasm is great . Of course , admission is n't decided by the PI themselves much of the time , but by an admissions committee ( not sure about Japan but this is usually the case in NA and EU ) . Especially so when you are applying for a scholarship . But an established relationship with the PI is certainly helpful and it indicates seriousness on your part . Finally : What 's the worst thing that could happen ? If you 're already going to be in the country , the worst thing is that they could say no , and you still get a nice holiday . Just do n't send many follow-up emails if they do n't reply . So personally , I 'd encourage you to reach out to potential PIs and ask , politely , if they might have the time to briefly meet with you to discuss their research and your research interests . But definitely either ask somebody who has been in Japan , or google social norms and etiquette since that is very important everywhere , but especially in Japanese culture .
end question
start question
What is reasonable expenditure on meals during a conference ?
Ask your advisor . Your university is likely to have a maximum allowable per diem that is based on the city that the conference is in . It varies from university to university , but mine just pays the per diem for that city regardless of how much you actually spend . Many universities do it this way . It saves time and money processing expenses on a meal-by-meal and receipt-by-receipt basis . If your university does this , then it does n't matter how much you spend on yourself . Also , given that the per diem is likely capped in the $ 40 - $ 50/day range anyway , you are unlikely to blow your advisor 's travel budget on food even if you hit the max every day .
Following the acceptance of a paper , I would not make any changes that go beyond " editorial " -- that is , improving the grammar , or adding a recently published citation . These do not change the " technical " content of the paper . Anything where you make edits that change the actual research or results presented in the paper should be presented to the editors of the journal or conference in question , with a request for guidance . The individuals in charge can then make a determination whether or not additional peer review is required .
I treat computational results as in silico experiments . They have been published in a peer-reviewed journal , so I trust them by default , unless I have a reason not to . I cite them without a need to recompute them . Sometimes , I have a reason to doubt them : they do n't match my intuition , or they do n't match my own results in a related case ; they seem incoherent ; they do n't match experimental data ; etc. . Then , I redo them , possibly in more than one way ( different software , try checking the effect of some of the assumptions , etc. ) . If I learn something from it , I consider publishing this study .
<URL> : " the title or abbreviated title of a volume printed at the top of left-hand text pages or sometimes of all text pages " It allows readers to determine which paper they 're looking at just by glancing at the top of the page . If your actual title is already very short , use your actual title . If your actual title is not very short , use an abbreviated version of it as the running title . ( The maximum length is often set by the publisher ; for example , <URL> sets the maximum length of the running head to 50 characters , <URL> allows 55 characters , etc. )
Is it normal to submit an abstract to a conference when the research is NOT completed ? Sure . There are plenty of fields where the purpose of a conference is to discuss research that is " still cooking . " In fact , many journal publications can be viewed as interim reports on larger research programs that are still in progress . You might use this opportunity to set a goal for ( roughly ) the piece of your thesis you want to have done by the date of the conference . It 's ok if that piece is relatively small , and nobody at the conference will hold you strictly to what you say in the abstract . In fact , some people submit abstracts on one thing and then talk about something entirely different ... I wo n't advocate that behavior as an intentional strategy , but I will say that many people ( myself included ) prefer a great talk to exacting consistency with the abstract .
A paper submitted to a conference can be accepted either as an oral talk , a poster talk , or a short demo/industry track , with variations ( small talks , long talks , plenary talks , e-posters , etc. ) . In some fields , the poster is considered less important , and will not be published as a paper in proceedings . In others , they have the same importance . Conferences have two main purposes ( I forgot about vacations in paradise places ) : present your paper , either talk or poster , attend other talks/posters , meet people . To me , " submitting a paper to a conference implies a moral obligation for one of the authors to present the talk or the poster , if the paper is accepted " . If one does not attend , the submission should be withdrawed , for different potential reasons : you ( and your co-authors ) do not need , or can not afford a poster presentation , the conference program is not good enough for your purposes , you should not fool attendees with papers that will not be presented . In the conferences I do summit to , both oral and poster are considered even . I now do : prefer posters when I present , as I have more time ( 1h-2h vs 15 min-20 min ) to present , to talk with attendees , adapt to their background , prefer attend to posters than to orals , except when I spot a specific point for a given talk . Plus , I do bring along with me small copies of the poster , copies of papers that are related to the work at hand , that I can offer to attendees . Reminder of the root : a " publication " means : make a research " public " . Posters are a good vector for that , and bring you more feedback ( very few questions asked in traditional oral sessions ) . Sometimes , somebody who can not attend your allotted slot can propose a specific meeting . I should admit I even went to a person presenting a poster , to ask him about her/his previous work . In those conferences , poster chairs spot " no shows " : poster panels without posters , posters without presenters , posters with a presenter who is not a co-author . <URL> No-show papers are defined as papers submitted by authors who subsequently did not present the paper in-person ( no videos , no remote cast ) at the technical meeting . Presentations by proxies are not allowed , unless explicitly approved before the conference by the technical co-chairs . No-show papers that were not withdrawn and were published in the Proceedings must be identified as " No-Show " in the files submitted to IEEE for further publication ( IEEE Xplore ) . No-shows will not be available on IEEE Xplore or other public access IEEE forums . IEEE will maintain an archive of no-shows . Authors of " no show " are sometimes blacklisted , and can be banned of publications in the scientific organization places ( future conferences , even journals ) for a couple of years . So it will be perceived poorly if you do not warn the organizers and withdraw the paper , is unethical to other attendees , and involves consequences for you and your co-authors .
You 'd have to ask the conference organization . You should try to get somebody to present the work for you , or ( just out of courtesy ) tell them it wo n't be presented ( so they can schedule talks correctly ) . What will happen is up to the conference . Some I 've attended just did not publish papers which were n't presented , others did publish in their proceedings regardless ( you had to pay any attendance fees , at the very least ) . What happens with " selected papers " also varies , one conference I went to selected papers only among those presented , including in their selection the presentation and questions and answers , asking selected authors for a revision based on the above .
LinkedIn certainly has some value , as a general professional networking tool . However , that value has been declining for quite a while and rather rapidly more recently due to various factors , mainly inability ( or lack of care/desire ) of LinkedIn 's management to manage the quality of the community , provide consistent user experience , fix issues and improve features , just to name a few . Whether the recent acquisition of LinkedIn by Microsoft will help LinkedIn to remain a major player in the market and improve its dominance or , vice versa , will enable its stagnation and transform it into Microsoft 's technology - and talent-focused support division , remains to be seen ( I make no bets ) . Having said that , the value of LinkedIn from the academic publishing perspective is quite bleak ( which is a nice way to say " close to zero " ) , in my humble opinion . The following are some of the reasons for my such assessment . Quality / scientific rigor . LinkedIn lacks a peer review process , which means that any published piece there should be taken with many more grains of salt than , if such process would be in place ( not that is expected ) . Relevancy . LinkedIn is not very relevant to academia . LinkedIn 's network of people from academic circles tend to be much less comprehensive than academia 's specialized networks due to some of their colleagues , collaborators , etc. using LinkedIn rarely , if ever , or just not having any presence there at all . Therefore , disseminating scientific information , using LinkedIn , is a much less effective option . Nevertheless , if one has important academic contacts on LinkedIn that are missing from the person 's other networks , it might make sense to publish there a brief post ( similar to an abstract ) with a link to a full-text article ( preferably , a DOI link ) . Information persistence . LinkedIn lacks a mechanism of persistent identifiers ( again , not that we can expect that from a general networking platform ) , which implies lack of guarantee that a link to an article published there will not become broken over time ( which jeopardizes scientific information dissemination ) . P.S. . There is no such term , as " job CV " - I understand what you 're trying to say , but IMHO it sounds pretty bad and , thus , I would recommend against using such word combination in any context . HTH
There may of course be differences between different academic cultures and systems but in essence you should be free to read whatever you want . Yes , you will of course need to read some literature to keep yorself up to date with your field to the extent that you can teach whatever courses you need to teach . I assume teaching is something you are ordered to do . Your own research adds the need to read other papers but since you decide your field you also decide what you need to read . If you find other areas of interest ( still within your or related fields ) then I can not see that as a problem . There are many aspects of science such as methodology that can be extracted from , for example , neighbouring fields . In my own case , I find I have a different problem : simply not time enough to keep myself updated to the level I would like . So , reading literature irrelevant to my major field is simply not imagineable . So in the end the answer will depend on what your job situation looks like and what the expectations are , what you are ordered to do and what is your own initiative as well as what might result if you do not fulfil the goals of your employer .
A major perk of being an academic are the long breaks between terms , when we have the freedom to travel and make our own schedules . However , this comes coupled with the responsibility to keep being productive during these breaks , and this is harder than it sounds . You are wise to be thinking ahead about how to manage this . I 'm not sure exactly what you have planned , but I 'm going to guess it may include extended visits to see friends and family . Here are some things I have found useful : Explain to them that , although you are glad to get to spend time with them , you 're not on vacation from work the whole time . ( Non-academics often do n't realize this and assume the entire break is free time for you . ) Look ahead to set aside specific times in your schedule for work . Ask your hosts to check with you before planning any family activities , to make sure they do n't conflict . Again , they should n't assume that all your time is free . ( " Oh , but you ca n't work on your paper tomorrow ! I 've just arranged for us to go on a picnic with Uncle Jrgen ! " ) Consider going somewhere else to work , such as a library or cafe . Trying to work with relatives around is often distracting , especially if some are children . Set specific goals for what you want to accomplish during the trip . If you share them with your family ( and can convince them that they are exciting ) they may be able to help encourage you to work toward them , and to arrange things so that you have the time to do so .
( edited to extract the key points from the main reference ) <URL> were always essential for me . Firstly I will give a personal replies to your answers and subsequently I will extract the main points of the Ian 's guidelines which are the basis for my answer . Personal perspective What is an effective ratio of introduction / methods / results / conclusion slides ? My own rule of thumb is to allocate 2-3 minutes per slide , which gives max . 6-8 slides including the envelope ( the " title " and the " end + questions ? " ones ) . That is , we have about 5 real content slides of which for introduction I allocate 1 for motivation &amp; context , and 1 to problem definition . The body gets whatever it needs , but should n't exceed 4 slides , with at least a single one dedicated to a sketch of a worked example . The audience does n't need to know how exactly I am doing the magic , I must however make them trust me and see what I am doing as plausible . The summary/conclusion/future work gets 1 slide . How can I balance the details of research without loosing the audience on key points ? Stress the motivation , the relevance of the problem and only sketch your solution so that an example which you provide will be plausible enough . Your talk is an advertisement for your paper . You are doing your best to assure that people learn something and you imprint some key points in their heads ( the problem description and a sketch of the main idea solving it ) . You do n't need to explain the details , just sketch the main principles . You want to compel the audience to either read your paper that day in the evening and base their own work on it ( hence citations ! ) , or ensure that sometime in the future when they will face a problem , they 'll remember that there was this guy speaking about something along the same lines , so let 's check it ( hence possible citations ! ) . What makes a " great " talk ? For me , it 's grounding in reality . Show me what impact your stuff has on me . Speak about an application I might care for , even if it will be only a hypothetical one . If the result can not be framed as a machine , or software , such as a lot of ( non-computational ) game-theory , then speak about implications to the society . Strike whatever chord , which makes your results tangible . It all boils down to answering a single question for every single person in the audience : Why should I care ?! But even if you do the all the positive advice right , there 's a more important point , namely what you should n't do . For example I tend to speak a lot ( see my posts at this site :-) ) . My main drill during preparation of a talk is to throw away everything non-essential . Moreover , I am often writing down notes about what not to say . Many otherwise great talks are ruined by the presenter speaking too much * and ** showing off . I do n't want to be impressed by your smartness , or charisma per se , I want you to simply educate me ! And finally the key points from the <URL> for giving a good talk , emphasis mine . General advice Communicate the Key Ideas : select 1-2 main high-level ideas and present them in a crisp and crystal clear way . Do n't get Bogged Down in Details : do not even attempt to discuss the details , unless you you have brisk answers to possible questions you open that way . Structure Your Talk &amp; Use a Top-down Approach : go the least-surprise path , i.e , the audience needs a story a wants to be able to follow it . The structure should stay crisp : 1 ) solid motivation/intro , 2 ) main points/body , 3 ) technicalities , if really necessary , 4 ) conclusion . Know Your Audience : allows you to skip some common-knowledge in the audience , as well as select what is important to them and what do they care for . Structure of the talk I added the emphasis to the points which I consider crucial . The Introduction Define the Problem Motivate the Audience Introduce Terminology Discuss Earlier Work Emphasize the Contributions of your Paper Provide a Road-map The Body Abstract the Major Results Explain the Significance of the Results Sketch a Proof of the Crucial Results Technicalities Present a Key Lemma Present it Carefully The Conclusion Hindsight is Clearer than Foresight Give Open Problems Indicate that your Talk is Over
The reason why it is difficult to tell what workshops are about is because it is a catch-all category that many different types of academic meeting are labelled as . To illustrate , let me give examples of the nature of some of the events that I have attended in the last two years that all use the same word " workshop " to describe themselves : A " baby conference " attached to a full-size conference , where the small meeting simply is n't large enough to meet on its own yet . A project meeting for researchers who are all funded by the same large grant A planning and discussion session aimed at helping determine the direction of a field A joint industry/academia fact-finding meeting sponsored by an industry consortium A specialty conference attended by around 100 people A premier conference attended by several hundred people A working meeting by a standards development group The length of these meetings ranged from a single afternoon to a full week . Their programs ranged from nothing but loosely structured discussion to a full-on tightly packed conference schedule . The level of peer review ranged from non-applicable to minimal to full-on single-blind review and revision . In short : a workshop is whatever it wants to be , and different ones serve different purposes in the academic ecosystem .
Have a look at the copyright transfer document that you have signed . Typically , it will only transfer the copyright of the conference paper that has been included in the proceedings . That means that you or your university / institution remain the copyright owner of the slides . Be careful , though . Often the slides contain figures that are also included in he article , and the copyright of those may have been transferred . Many copyright statements allow you to use figures and such on you own or your institution 's website , but not all . If you do have figures or other material in your slides that you do not own the copyright of ( anymore ) , then it is wise to either : ask the copyright holder for permission for them to be used on your own website , or leave that material out , or create a new version of the respective material ( which often can be done if you have the underlying raw data )
In general , postdoctoral positions -- unlike faculty positions ( in the US ) -- are considered to be 12-month positions , with the salaries determined accordingly . You are not normally expected to provide your own funding for the summer months , nor are you expected to find outside employment . If this is not the case , then it should be explicitly mentioned in the advertisement for the position . However , this is so rarely encountered that it would be very much outside the norm for postdocs .
How long does it usually take to publish a first research paper ? That question depends on a lot of factors . Here are a few of them : What is the significance of your research ? How much of your research is unique , novel , and relevant ? Will other computer scientists be interested in your findings ? How well can you write ? How well can you organize your paper ? Where do you intend to publish ? Some conferences and publications are more competitive than others . ( Put another way , some have a lower acceptance rate than others . ) Much of that depends on who sponsors the conference or publication . First , you have to do the research ( this is not trivial ) . Significant findings need to come from that research ( this does n't always happen ) . You have to write that in a way that will appeal to the community ( the community can be rather fickle sometimes ) . Lastly , you have to find some venue where the work can be presented ( it 's not always easy to find a good match ) . If a paper gets rejected , it could be because : The research does n't report anything new or significant The research does n't report anything of interest to the community The paper is poorly written The paper does n't cite other related research , leading to a credibility problem There simply was n't room for your paper in the publication , or it was n't a good match for that venue Getting back to your original question , you might be able to publish in a year , if everything goes very smoothly . However , that 's a huge " IF . " Even established researchers can spend years getting ready for a publication , only to see it be rejected by a committee . Publication can be a long and arduous process , with plenty of opportunities for obstacles , setbacks , and dead ends . It can be very hard to estimate a timetable , particularly for a first-timer going from start to finish . Your best bet might be to see what 's going on at your university , and see if you can get involved with an established , ohgoing research effort . Before you do that , it might be worth doing a self-evaluation first , so that you 're prepared to tell a faculty member what you can offer the research team . For example , perhaps you 're a crack programmer , and a research project at your institution needs some software written , in order to complete an experiment or simulation . That might be a more realistic way to get started as a researcher .
Have a look at this excellent memoir by a recent CS PhD : <URL> Although written from a CS perspective , many of his experiences transcend disciplines .
I see no reason at all to leave any reasonable skill or ability off of your CV . Play a musical instrument ? Won some medals in a sporting event ? Program an android app ? Have a black belt in a martial art ? Add a section called " Other skills " or " Personal Information " and briefly list these skills . There are two reasons for this . First , it can help a potential employer think of you as a real person , perhaps someone they would like to know . Second , many skills can take years of dedicated practice to master ; if you can master one such skill , then there is a good chance you can master whatever new skills may be required in the new job . Here is an example from my life . Many years ago I programmed a video game ( one of the old " text adventure " style games . I placed this on my CV , not thinking much about it . It turned out that one of the elder faculty conducting the interview had played that game and remembered it fondly . This alone certainly did not " get me the job , " but anything that can smooth the way can be helpful .
There is no good reason to simply copy large portions of an existing publication to make a new . By rewriting everything , you have the opportunity to rephrase your thoughts and most likely produce a better paper , at least from a writing point of view . Some journals definietly look at plagiarism and in this case self-plagiarism and the only way to avoid it is to rewrite . I think the benefits of rewriting clearly outweighs the possible time-saving by just copy-pasting . Just to provide an example . I have written tens of papers about the same natural physical object that I have studied . In each paper , I have to provide a descritpion of the locality and characteristics and not once have this been copied . It is in fact interesting to see how many dofferent ways the same ( dull ) information can be conveyed . As for a percentage of new material , I really would advice against relying on a numbr . It is possible this is a silent understanding in some fields but in general , only new insights and conclusion should warrant a new publication . Another year of data or something similar to that is in itself not enough . The paper might be published but such publication strategies are not looked upon favourably in the long term . So , I strongly recomend rewriting each paper and not rely on copy-pasting . I am convinced you will develop as an author and also generate better papers by doing so . consider each paper a separate new entity .
I do n't think that most candidates are very good at faking interest . So , ask the questions you are genuinely interested in , and your interest will show through . It is true that you have to give the best impression you can during an interview , but you do n't want to come across as fake or scripted . I would start by reading the university , college , and department websites . That may give you some questions . If you run out of questions , you can always ask other faculty in the department about themselves . It is rumored that academics love to talk about themselves . You can also talk about your research , which is an easy way to make small talk and show off your communication skills . Given that general advice , here are some questions that I think are common and " safe " : Ask about the tenure process . How long is the probationary period ? What is the general process ? Is there any form of mid-tenure review ? Ask about teaching . What courses do new faculty typically teach ? How tightly controlled are they ? Will you have a lot of new preparations ? Do faculty often teach over the summer ? What process is used to make teaching assignments ( seniority , rotation , etc. ) ? Ask about benefits . They can tell you about the insurance and retirement benefits , which vary significantly from school to school . Ask about housing . Where do most of the faculty live ? How far from campus do they live ? How expensive is it to live in the area ? Are there any particularly nice locations to live near the college ? Ask about living in the area . Is it a lively place ? A quiet place that 's " good for raising a family " ? Is there much nightlife ? Is there convenient local shopping ? Is it good for biking ? Here are some questions that you have to think about carefully before you ask them : Salary . Some prefer to talk about this during the interview ; some prefer to wait until an offer is made . Two-body problems ( if your spouse is also looking for a job at the university or in the area ) . Again , some prefer to wait until an offer is made , others mention it early . See these questions : <URL> and <URL> Unusual goals . For example , if you are being interviewed by department X , but you want to work mostly with people in department Y . In some cases , this sort of thing is a mark in your favor - in others it will doom your chances of getting hired .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
end question
start question
What do you do when you are asked to perform an official review for a journal of a manuscript written by your supervisor ?
If this is an informal request for internal review -- definitely go ahead . It is common practice to have close associates review work , and your thoughtful comments will gain you respect . If this is a formal invitation from a journal -- it is a clear conflict of interest . It probably should never have been sent to you , quite honestly . This is not to say you could n't provide an unbiased , thoughtful review , but to an outsider this would really be questionable . I suggest you take the high road , decline the invitation , and send a letter to the action editor reminding him of your close association .
As Marc says in his comment , the best thing to do is probably to incorporate the new proof into your revision , after you get reviewer feedback . A small extension not worth its own paper is unlikely to make a difference between reject and revise . If you send it now , it may annoy the editor and reviewers . Also , the reviewers will likely be just fine with more new material you add in revision .
I would pick a major that maximizes your future options . Not necessarily one that will get you a job , but one that gives you a strong foundation so it 's easy to pick up knowledge of other subjects . One good major for this is math . Once you have mathematical sophistication it 's a lot easier to learn other fields , like physics , engineering , computer science etc. . In general , I think it 's a lot easier to switch from math to a more applied field than it would be to switch from an applied field to math . ( Personally I majored in math , and then switched to computer science , which is another major I highly endorse . ) Besides , it is a very fun major . At any reputable university the homework assignments require original thought and no two problems are the same . In terms of career options , most math majors I knew either ( 1 ) went for their PhDs ( 2 ) became traders/took other jobs in the financial sector ( 3 ) branched into software engineering or data science .
I think : if I inform the professor right after I am aware of the decision , then I may hurt his/her feeling , because he/she was for me ; if I inform him/her later , then the same concern takes place and I can not justify why I procrastinated letting him/her know it . You should n't worry about this at all : Faculty members generally are n't particularly emotionally invested in these decisions . For the students involved , they feel ( and in fact are ) incredibly weighty , but faculty members are involved in dozens of cases per year , so they get some good news and some bad news and it all averages out emotionally . Even if this professor is unusually emotionally invested in the outcome , delaying reporting the result wo n't make it better . They might end up feeling unhappy with the unfairness of life or the poor decision-making skills of whoever turned down your application , but they wo n't be upset with or disappointed in you , so there 's no reason to worry or delay . I 'd recommend just letting your letter writers know when you find out , without stressing out about when or how you tell them . You could just forward the rejection e-mail with a brief note ( such as the " Many thanks for your support ; unfortunately I did not succeed . " suggested by iayork ) .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
You stop reading books cover to cover when you do n't need all the information between the covers of the books . If you take a textbook on topology and flip to the middle , it will probably be largely uninterpretable because you do n't know the terminology , previously proved theorems , and so on . You can still glance through the chapter on the material that you really need to know to get an idea of what you 're completely missing . If you can select a subset of earlier chapters that let you understand the later one , great ! If not , read the whole thing . If that 's still not enough , get another textbook or talk to someone who knows the subject well . You 'll have to make the call regarding when it 's better to proceed in this way and when it 's more efficient to simply start at the beginning and go through it all . If you need to know something well , this is often the approach to take not because the other would n't work as well in principle , but because in practice the temptation to be less thorough than one really needs to be is often too great .
Sometimes mistakes happen . Yes , it 's a pain to have to deal with this mistake now after the paper was accepted for publication , but it 's a good thing that you caught your mistake before the paper was published . Note : If you have coauthors , before doing anything , contact your coauthors and explain to them the changes you need to make . Do this before doing anything else . What should I do ? Should I send the errata to editor or copy editor ? As you mentioned that you are dealing with an IEEE journal , my response here is specific to the IEEE : Talk to the senior editor that you are working with currently . Tell them specifically the changes you want to make and that " the logic of the concluding remarks is still correct and the discrepancies only impact the affected numerical results and the specific conclusions drawn from them , " and that " the other numerical results are correct . " The senior editor will take it from there . Based on my past experience , you do not need to contact the editor-in-chief about this directly . Will it affect my paper 's value ? No , but I do n't really follow why you think correcting a mistake will affect your paper 's value . Correcting a mistake prior to publication is a good thing . Will it need to go through another review cycle ? This will depend on the steps taken by the senior editor .
Letters are interesting to write because they still have to be " complete " but the definition of " complete " is different ( and you often ca n't rely on throwing citations at the problem because there may be a limit there too ) . You need someone else to read it . Another PhD student in the group ? A postdoc ? They should read it as a reviewer rather than as a coauthor and point out any glaring omissions . You would of course return the favour at some point .
It does not make a difference whether your review would be positive or negative , and it is your duty to keep your discussions about the student confidential . Should you choose to review their application , you should not tell the student or anyone not involved in the process that you are doing so . You are being asked to help your university , or maybe just a professor who trusts you , to help with their admissions and hiring process . You should take it seriously and give an honest review if you can . If you do n't feel like you can be objective in your review ( maybe the student is a friend or colleague ) , then you should decline to do so . But I do n't feel like there 's an ethical issue in the applicant not knowing that you 've been asked about them .
Search the web for it : open archives , search engine , authors webpages , whatever ( you 've probably done that already ... ) Ask the contact author for a copy , which she 'll usually be very happy to provide . I regularly get such requests from other researchers in my field , and it feels very good to know that people are actually interested in your work . If the contact author does n't respond , try the senior author , then other authors . Try your local library . Look into their database , and also ask the librarian there if the document might be available through loan from other libraries . I 've never had much success doing that , but you never know ... Ask a few colleagues at different institutions if they can get it for free ( see <URL> ) . If you have friends at large/famous/well-funded US universities ( Princeton , Harvard , ... ) , they probably have a more comprehensive access than you . If it 's a really important paper , pay for it ! Whatever happens , make sure you make a copy for others in your lab/group , and archive it . When I started my PhD , there was a folder ( the heavy paper type , not the computer type ) labeled " important but hard to find papers " that the group had accumulated along the years . It was the most treasured object in the whole lab .
I would n't worry about this , unless you have some reason to think you are particularly at risk for having an idea stolen . Ideas are generally not the bottleneck in research . Any experienced researcher will have many more ideas than there is time to investigate , and the hard part is actually carrying out the research well . This means there is little or no incentive to steal untested ideas , especially in comparison with the risk of professional embarrassment from an accusation of theft . When I 've seen impressive ideas in graduate school or job applications , I 've admired the applicant more than the idea . Sometimes there have been cases where it would be exciting to work on this topic with the applicant , but I 've never seen a case where an initial idea was so obviously great in isolation that I wish I could take it up myself without involving the applicant . That 's not to say theft ca n't happen , but I do n't think it 's a likely or worrisome threat . There 's also not much you can do to prevent it in this scenario . You can create enough documentation to prove that you had the idea yourself , but it 's much harder to prove that the other person had n't already had the same idea independently ( which does happen on occasion ) . You might be able to prove that someone behaved like a jerk by not telling you that they were competing with you , but you probably ca n't prove that they stole your idea . Given that it 's not a big risk and is n't easy to address , I 'd recommend not worrying about it .
Plagiarism and self-plagiarism sound similar , but are importantly distinct things . Plagiarism is if you use other people 's work as your own . You deprive them of credit and claim credit for yourself which you do not deserve . Self-Plagiarism does not deprive the author ( you ) from credit , but the offence here is that the the " present-you " claims credit that the " past-you " already collected . This is an assessment offence because you would get a double mark for a single piece of work . You could , of course , quote yourself ( properly cited ! ) , in which case , you would be perfectly fine , but you would only gain marks for new work done , which , in case of a full copy , would still be zero . However , in a sensible school policy it should not be punishable for plagiarism in the conventional sense , since it was you in the first place who wrote the text . As a student , I have reused software libraries I wrote in other coursework , properly cited , of course . It would be a waste of time to redo mechanical work , and permitted me to get much further . With an essay , nothing stops you , of course , to build upon existing writing ( properly cited ) to develop your argument further .
No , you should not , but there is of course no law that prevents it . Peer review is a process where the editor appoints reviewers because of their expertise to provide independent and knowledgeable views on the submitted manuscript . As such the reviews should pass through the editor since they are not only made to improve the manuscript from the point of the author but also prepare it to be worthy of publication in the journal to which it is submitted . Making such contact is thus breaking an understanding with the editor/journal and integrity of the journal review system and quality assurance . The correspondence needs to go through the editor .
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
Allow me to strongly disagree with eykanal 's answer . There is no universal standard . You must ask your advisor in advance what her coauthorship policy is . In theoretical computer science ( and mathematics ) , it is generally considered unethical to list someone as a co-author who has not made a novel and significant intellectual contribution to the paper . In particular , merely funding the research is not considered an intellectual contribution . Adding a supervisor 's name to a paper to which they have not directly , intellectually contributed is lying . In practice , writing a good grant proposal requires at least as much intellectual novelty as writing a good paper . Most of the good ideas that PIs pour into their proposals also appear in papers ; as long as those ideas constitute novel intellectual contributions , the PI merits co-authorship . But that only works once per idea ; once an idea has been published , it 's no longer novel , by definition . To be specific and personal : I am not a coauthor on all of my PhD students ' papers . ( Of course , I still report my students ' independent work back to NSF as outcomes on whatever grants supported them . So I still get credit from NSF for having the foresight to fund the student . ) The same is true of all the other theoretical computer science faculty in my department . My PhD advisor is a co-author on only one of the papers I published as a PhD student . My PhD advisor does n't have a single co-authored paper with his advisor .
[ Note : my experience is from mathematics . I guess most will still be applicable in other fields , but I do n't have first-hand experience . ] It probably does n't matter directly . For any kind of job application , grant application , etc , you will be assessed on ( among other things ) the quality and notability of your research . How exactly people assess that will depend on how close they are to your work . Specialists in your own subfield will be able to judge your work on its own merits , regardless of where it 's published . People in related fields will have to judge it indirectly , and may look at ( among other things ) the prestige of the journals you publish in -- but they probably have a better idea of the journals ' reputation than just the impact factor . The impact factor may matter most when the assessment is by people outside your subject -- for instance , some government research agencies or university administrations have official criteria that include impact factors or similar metrics . For post-docs ( at least in my experience in maths ) , the main people judging your application will be your potential research group leaders , and their immediate colleagues . So they will be able to judge your work directly -- so impact factor probably is not too relevant there . Long-term jobs and grant applications are much more likely to be assessed , in part , by people not in your own field , or according to fixed criteria . So for these , impact factor and similar metrics are more likely to matter . ( How much they matter depends a lot on the specific country , institution , and field you are in . ) However , I 've never heard of the criteria being as crude as " the sum of the impact factors of the journals you published in is close to 10 " .
Step 1 : Do n't panic I was in a similar situation halfway through my MSc . I was in a panic , sure that my academic career was in ruins . My supervisor calmed me down , reminded that a negative result was still a result , and and told me that a for a master 's degree , it was not strictly required that I make a scientific contribution or have a publication . In the worst case , in my thesis I would present my negative results , explain why this technique did n't work , and suggest what could be done differently by future researchers . ( Once I was relaxed enough to think clearly , I came up with new things to try , and everything worked out grand . ) I suggest you discuss the " worst case scenario " with your supervisor ; you 'll probably find out it 's not as bad as you think . Remember that this is research : positive results are not guaranteed . Step 2 : Think about why this technique is n't working . I 'm sure you 've learned something about why your technique is n't working . That should give you some ideas for what to try next . If you 're out of ideas , sit a friend down and explain everything to them . The friend does n't need to know anything about machine learning ; they 're just a sounding board . The naive questions they ask may give you ideas . Maybe you need a week off to recharge your batteries . Step 3 : Try something new . Take those new ideas you got in step 2 , and apply them . But now that you 're more experienced , think about how you could find out more quickly if the idea is feasible , so you can change tack again if needed .
The National Science Foundation in the US has clearly articulated <URL> for what constitutes a conflict of interest for reviewers of grant proposals . These are probably safe -- and certainly defensible -- guidelines for you to follow . Specifically ( and for the reason you mention ) , research collaborations are considered to be a conflict only if they occurred within the last 4 years ( there are other rules as well , please see the document ) .
It is appropriate ? Sure , what is the harm ? It is always nice to see one 's work recognised and appreciated . Just keep it short , polite , and to the point . Is it expected ? Probably no . The staff is busy , and if your question was n't anything out of the ordinary , they would probably forget you asked soon . Edit : mbert adds in the comments some interesting inside information : I am an assistant at my university and answer a lot of emails through a ticketing system . Our signature says something similar about replying . This is because when I answer an email , the ticket gets closed and marked done . If you answer to this email the ticket gets reopened and somebody needs to close it again . So I would suggest to answer with a short sentence but only if you are not emailing with a team that shares an email ( like staff @ ... or support @ ... ) ( Emphasis mine ) .
I would say it depends : a ) If in medicine , you are the first one to replicate an effect in an independent study , then you actually did something original , namely confirming the effect b ) If in physics , you refine an experimental design to verify an uncertain outcome , or clean up a measurement to exclude artifacts , and make the effect more clear , it is also something original The rest is in the shades of what passed in the journals as " original " . But I guess as long as the experiment was set up freshly ( i.e. not in the same group ) and had any small improvement/change ( analysis method , amount of data , statistical uncertainty , control experiments ) over the original it would pass in many universities for a PhD ( and I will not give my personal opinion on the level or originality required for a PhD in an average university here ) .
end question
start question
Popular proprietary program or obscure open source substitute for reproducible research ?
I think there are two kinds of reproducibility : The ability of someone else to run your code and obtain the same output . The ability of someone else to write their own code that does the same thing as yours based on your description and on examination of your code ( reproduction from scratch ) . The second kind of reproducibility is much more convincing , since the main point of scientific reproducibility is to verify correctness of the result . For science that relies on code , it is usually impossible to include every detail of the code in the paper , so verification requires examination of the code . If you use proprietary software , your code probably makes use of closed source code , and therefore it can not be verified or reproduced from scratch . If you use open source software , then all of the code that your code calls is probably open source , so it can all be verified or reproduced by someone else from scratch . At present , it is probably true that the first kind of reproducibility is more achievable with proprietary , widely-used software . I am optimistic that the current trend will lead to open-source software catching up in terms of wide use ( consider <URL> , for example ) . Addendum , in light of Epigrad 's answer below , which I mainly agree with : The problem with relying on closed-source code is n't that someone else wo n't know what that closed-source code is expected to do . The problem is that if you have two closed-source implementations of the same algorithm and they give different results ( trust me , they usually will ) , then you have no way of determining which ( if either ) is correct . In other words , closed-source code would be fine for reproducibility if it were bug-free . But it 's not .
Yes . I took both German and French . I was already fairly comfortable with French from having studied it in high school and in university , so I 'll write about German instead . I prepared for my German language exam by going on to the <URL> ( a program to retroactively digitise documents , including a lot of classical mathematics papers ) and downloading some papers in mathematical analysis ( my field , sort of ) from around the 1950s to 60s ( when still a lot of the papers were published in German ) . I then went to the library and borrowed the copy of <URL> ( for the nouns ) and a copy of a normal German-English dictionary ( for the verbs ) and sat myself down and started translating word by word . After about a month I translated about 30 pages or so of math papers ( and at the same time learned about uniform spaces ) , and proceeded to take my exam . Not much . I have absolutely no conversational German , and only very rarely do I have to look something up in German that I can not find a write-up in another language . ( So far twice only , one a slightly obscure result in algebraic lattices that the only reference I could find is to a paper in the 30s . ) ( French on the other hand has been useful ; mostly because the abovementioned " write-up in another language " often turned out to be in French . ) Given how much I 've found French to be useful for me , I 'm sure that if I had actually properly learned the language , German would be just about as useful . Conversely , if you do n't really learn the foreign language , you will probably be able to get by through other means in this day and age . The canonical place to find French papers to read is <URL> . Of course , for practice , you can also check out Bourbaki from the library ; it may be slightly less intimidating to start working first on the language by reading something whose mathematics at least you are familiar with .
Yes , of course anyone can publish an open science project . As many of us in the scientific community wish would happen , the project should be judged on merit , not who initiated it , where they studied , or what their background or education is . These principles are enshrined in the <URL> ( DORA ) , which have been widely circulated and many ( unfortunately not a majority , yet ) organisations quick to sign up to .
Applying to Masters Program does not really depend on one single factor but a variety of factors . The above sentence is very important before we move on to the answer . The decision on your admit depends on your application as a package and will be evaluated in its entirety . If your are a local student and then you attend Google Summer Of Code as part of the general trend of your location , then its obvious that most of the people from your school would have done so as well . In that case , what factors in is your school an its culture . But say , if your are an international student and from a non-reputed institution , then the grad schools does not really know a lot about your institution , but then what matters is how you have excelled in your institution . Are you an student , who just want to finish of your course work or wanting to do beyond something ? Here what you have done matters a lot . Now the school where you are applying counts in as well . Some programs in a school would need a certain kind of attitude to survive . So it all boils down to how you project your resume , SOP ( statement of Purpose ) and how can good you have come up with what you have ? So most of grad schools know students dont have the luxury of doing all things needed for a program , but will seek to know how the applicant has fared in his life . So it does matter a lot unless you did study in school where just most of them would have done something beyond just academics or apply to a program where you expect to see a lot of these performers apply too . Just highlight them in way that is appealing to the school . Like ' I am 2 of 100 people in my school who participated in Goodle Summer of Code ' . Strike it like its still hot . Source : Personal Experience/Opinion when applying . I did focus on highlighting things I did and my other folks in college did not . .
As a PhD student you are not usually required to have significant collaborations outside your school or department , although it does happen . So , if you are thinking about external collaborations , the first think you should do is talk to your advisor about it . Your advisor almost certainly has many connections in the field . Thus , they might be able to recommend someone to work with . But , they might also discourage this . You are ( at least in theory ) being trained by your supervisor . This gives them a greater responsibility for helping you develop your research abilities . Working with someone externally can put some of this burden onto them if your advisor is n't also involved . For instance , I have a current PhD student that is part of an external collaboration , but I do some work to ensure that anything that we do that goes to our external collaborators is high enough quality that we are n't wasting their time . My colleague does something similar when his students work with me . When I receive an unsolicited research request from a colleague 's student , the first thing I do is contact their supervisor to see if they know about the request . I do n't want to be seen as going behind their back to work with their student , and I would n't want someone else doing this with students I 'm supervising .
You already have the answer from your advisor . He is the one who knows the circumstances and can make the call if he want to . You can ask , but be careful how you do it . Remember , if he wanted to do it , he would have done it already instead of asking you to cut the paper . Yes , if its close enough , and he feels that grant has been supporting his activities ...
No direct conversion of grades is possible between various systems . So , you will have to argue your way into their program , by presenting your results in the best light possible and making a convincing case that you would fulfill their requirements if you were in their system . Because in the end , your application will be judged by people , not computer . At least if you make it clear that your system is quite different . One of the ways to do it is , as you started to do , by comparing percentiles : figure out what their grade requirement equals to in terms of quantile , and start from there . " I am in the top 25 % of my school , which is equivalent to a grade of XX ( based on these official statistics ) " . That sort of reasoning .
I assume you are talking about a document that is part of your application to universities ( e.g. for a PhD ) , which would be called a research statement here in the UK . Then the answer is simple : you want to maximise your chances of each application . So invest the extra effort and make individual documents to maximise your chances . Different departments have different priorities , so you want to emphasise how your plans fit to the research agenda of each place you are applying to . While it may be convenient to send the same SOP to each place , you can show that you have researched the place you are applying to and at least modify the SOP to fit to the place you are applying to .
The NSF 's guidelines are that you can generally pay one faculty-month of salary . In principle , you can propose to divide this money up however you like , but if you try to divide up the compensation among all the faculty members involved , it may not be enough money going to any single person to really be worthwhile . As the PI of an REU site , I do not pay the other faculty supervisors anything . However , my field is not mathematics but physics . The faculty mentors , most of whom work in experiment but some of whom are theorists , would all be on campus doing research even if the REU students were not present . Most of them are getting paid summer salary off other research grants . The only direct faculty compensation goes to me , since I manage all the advertising , admissions , and logistics for the program , which really do amount to about a month of full time work . Some other programs have a PI and co-PI who share the responsibilities and compensation basically equally , but I would suggest not dividing the money up too finely .
In my experience , citation counts are considerably less important than recommendation letters , but they still matter , especially for tenure . For fresh PhDs , high citation counts are definitely helpful , but they 're not a hiring requirement for most fields in CS . But for tenure , it 's really hard to build a successful case without at least one high-impact ( post-thesis ) publication . Smart committees know to gather citation counts , publication counts , acceptance rates , impact factors , h-indices , and other quasi-objective numerical data from reasonable sources and to compare them with peers in the applicant 's field . ( For my promotion cases , for example , my citation counts were mined from Google Scholar , not ISI , and I was compared against other theoretical computer scientists , not other computational-geometers-who-play-with-surface-graphs . ) Alas , not every committee is smart .
I 'll answer based on the U.S. ( which is where these issues are most relevant , I believe ) . There is no special consideration for athletes in graduate admissions . Undergraduate admissions are handled by admissions officers who often use all sorts of non-academic criteria , and recruiting athletes to play for the university is a specific goal at many universities . However , graduate admissions is done by departmental committees made up of faculty , and the non-academic criteria that play an important role for undergraduates ( well roundedness , extracurricular activities , athletics , etc. ) are irrelevant . If anything , a continued desire to participate extensively in high-level athletics could be considered a disadvantage , since it would take time away from academics . If Derek Jeter wanted to go to graduate school , I 'm sure some faculty would be impressed by his fame , but they would also be careful and skeptical in evaluating his qualifications . In any case , there certainly would n't be a special admissions slot designated for an athlete .
Although a 50 person office is larger than I have seen , open plan and shared offices are not uncommon in academia especially for graduate students and post docs . For individuals with teaching and supervisory responsibilities , open plan offices become less practical due to the need for privacy . The advantage of shared offices is that they help to foster interactions . Of course you can just leave your office door open , but many departments you can walk down the hall and all the doors are shut and you rarely get to interact with colleagues . As for asking for a different office , it can not hurt to ask . In one group I used to work in there was a 15 + person office with two small 1 person offices for hot desking at . It might be possible to wall off an area for hot desking . The idea behind hot desking is that multiple people can share a one person office since you will not need a quite office all the time . With networked computers or laptops it does n't really matter what desk you are sitting at . This way you can setup small offices for dedicated tasks ( e.g. , reading , writing , and programming ) . Groups that spend a lot of time in a wet lab or a clinic often benefit from hot desking . If you do n't ask , then people will not know how to make the work environment better .
My question is , how often do students do this for qualifying or comprehensive exams ? At my previous department ( in ECE , if it matters ) , students do for qualifiers/prelims what they do for their defense , the only difference being that you scale down the total quantity of refreshments that you provide/purchase a bit if the exam is not open to the public . Would committee members expect at least some coffee ? I do n't know about " expect , " but it 's nice to have some on hand : at all of my exams , all of my committee members went straight for the coffee upon arrival to the exam . Edited to add -- The oral portion of the qualifying exam at my previous department consisted of a presentation which was meant to showcase any research highlights the student had achieved up to that point and future directions . If your qualifying/comprehensive exam is like that described by @CameronWilliams below in the comments , then bringing refreshments may not make any sense , i.e. your mileage may vary .
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
Yes , try looking at the <URL> and their study management website , the <URL> . They primarily deal in psychology and cancer biology studies right now , but I 'm sure other areas of science are welcome or will be soon .
The norm for secondary sources varies by field , and it is generally suggested that you follow what is normal in your field . As I note in my answer to this related question , <URL> - some institutions insist on secondary citations , like Columbia , while some style guides ( APA ) permit secondary source citation . IEEE on the other hand explicitly calls out not to use secondary sources , period . If you were in any of the fields I work in ( computer science , psychology , HCI , etc. ) which use APA/IEEE styles , I would suggest a third option : cite paper B if it is important , and do n't accept that you first have to read the whole chain of papers leading up to B. Saying " B is important for [ reason ] , and shows an important historical method that is not used here " , and cite it . You do n't have to understand every aspect of it in detail to get the gist and determine if it should be cited or not .
At least in mathematics ( and presumably in other fields , although I have no direct experience with that ) , they are evaluated in the same pool as all the other proposals . In practice , there seem to be two key differences in how they are treated : Panel members can be a little more forgiving for certain aspects of RUI proposals . For example , if the PI publishes excellent papers but not very many of them , then this low publication rate would probably be considered a bigger drawback in a non-RUI proposal . The NSF may give some degree of preference to a few RUI proposals , as described below . The review panel classifies proposals into three categories : roughly 10 % that are highly recommended for funding , 30-40 % that are recommended for funding , and 50-60 % that are not . The available funding is never sufficient to cover all the proposals recommended for funding , so further decisions need to be made after the panel . The ones not recommended for funding are automatically eliminated , and the ones highly recommended for funding are more or less guaranteed to be funded . The ones in the middle are ranked in order by the panel , but the NSF is not required to follow this ranking . They largely follow it , but they adjust it based on their own criteria ( for example , balance of fields , geographical diversity , etc. ) . My understanding is that if no RUI proposal in a given panel would otherwise be funded , then the highest-ranked RUI proposal may be bumped up in the rankings . However , this is not guaranteed , and it depends on having a high enough ranking from the panel . The program officers may also compare how panels in different areas ranked their RUI proposals , to see which ones seem most worthy of funding . However , there is no RUI-only panel .
No , it 's generally not possible . Almost all Ph.D. programs have a rule against admitting someone who already has a research doctorate . Under special circumstances , one might be admitted as an unfunded Ph.D. student in a completely different field ; but in the same field , never .
<URL> points to <URL> , which allows you to look up the policy of specific journals .
Short answer - CC-BY is most common in OA generally but it 's not ubiquitous , and you 'd not be alone if you did n't use it . It 's certainly a topic of some debate . Generally speaking , humanities academics/journals are more concerned about it than the sciences ( see eg <URL> . Concerns about commercial reuse ( NC ) are usually more common than about derivatives ( ND ) . CC-BY is by now more or less the standard in the sciences . Almost all all-OA titles that I 've dealt with in the earth sciences &amp; biological sciences use this as the default , though there are a small handful that use CC-BY-NC or CC-BY-NC-ND as their standard license ( CC-BY-ND is rare ) , and a few that run on a more traditional " no license but we 're always free to read " basis . I have seen CC-0 and CC-BY-SA papers but this is very unusual . Hybrid titles ( subscription journals with a per-article OA option ) tend to have more mixed arrangements , with some offering only CC-BY , some a choice of CC licenses , some a generic " free to read " option , etc. . Hybrid titles published by the major commercial publishers tend to have a one-size-fits-all license policy regardless of their subject matter . Some numbers to illustrate this : in 2014 my institution published 93 CC-BY papers , six CC-BY-NC , and four CC-BY-NC-ND . Four of the NC ( - ND ) papers were in hybrid titles with a choice of license , the others were required by journal policy . As noted , this is a mix of publishing in the earth &amp; biological sciences . Meanwhile , much of the drive for licensing comes from funding agencies . These tend to either ( a ) require the CC-BY license ( Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , Wellcome Trust , Research Councils UK ) , or ( b ) not specify a license as such ( NSF , HEFCE ) . UK funders have been more aggressive about specifying a fixed license than US ones .
end question
start question
What , if any , roads are open to graduate schools for athletes with borderline grades ?
I 'll answer based on the U.S. ( which is where these issues are most relevant , I believe ) . There is no special consideration for athletes in graduate admissions . Undergraduate admissions are handled by admissions officers who often use all sorts of non-academic criteria , and recruiting athletes to play for the university is a specific goal at many universities . However , graduate admissions is done by departmental committees made up of faculty , and the non-academic criteria that play an important role for undergraduates ( well roundedness , extracurricular activities , athletics , etc. ) are irrelevant . If anything , a continued desire to participate extensively in high-level athletics could be considered a disadvantage , since it would take time away from academics . If Derek Jeter wanted to go to graduate school , I 'm sure some faculty would be impressed by his fame , but they would also be careful and skeptical in evaluating his qualifications . In any case , there certainly would n't be a special admissions slot designated for an athlete .
I may be suggesting the obvious but it will depend on your program and your level . For a course based masters program with a practical bent I would imagine they would look upon your grades favourably . These tend to include some sort of practical capstone project required to earn the degree . If it 's thesis based , it would tend to imply some theoretical work . For a PhD , expect theory . Really , why else would they be PhDs ? Further , most of the applications I 've seen ( and submitted ) tend to speak to a well rounded applicant profile . They want to know about the work you 've done , volunteer experience , publications , and your academic history . But perhaps most importantly in your situation , they tend to want some form of personal statement outlining why you both want and deserve to be in a program . This would be your opportunity to convince them ; much like a cover letter . I 'm in the western world however , and cant speak to institutions beyond that sphere .
That is highly dependent on the thoroughness of the committee doing the ranking , and other random facts ( i.e. , one might hate the guts of the renowned colleague , or have met and been well impressed by the fresh professor ) . In case of doubt , I 'd go for someone who can really talk about you ( worked together , took classes with them , ... ) than some star who at most will say they 've met you and you seem OK .
Quick Answer : The downside might be his age , but the upside is plenty ! It is obvious that the age might be a factor , however you are not dealing with a dance instructor or a body builder here . Look at Prof. Stephen Hawking , beside his age , there are other limitations ; but everyone listens to him and want to learn from him . Put his name on a conference , and people will line up . The following points popped up in my head : Experience : Being dominant in a field for any amount of period , let alone 3 decades , is not easy . What you will get is a world of experience and vision ( my second point here ) . Vision : It is not all about hard work to be on the top , the individual needs to have a vision of the field as well . You will have the privilege to lean how he come up and deal with research issues . Believe me , I had supervisors that did not have the ' vision ' part , and working with them was not pleasant . Less Politics : He already ' done it all ' , and therefore not looking forward that much to the next promotion or something of that sort ; what you get is a person that everyone knows that he is the leader in a field ; so all the help you get you from him ; you get it through no or much less jealousy and/or office politics . Decision On Your Overall Career : If you get a position to work with a young supervisor , you ca n't truly answer the big question : What I will do after my PhD ? . However if you work with an experience academic , you can see yourself after 20/30/40 years . You can see how hard you need to work to get there and is it something you want to do or not . Conclusion : Take the position , there might be a little downside because of his age , but the positive points are plenty .
To answer the first question : I asked a similar question on twitter a while back and got a range of responses . Those are summarized in a <URL> . To paraphrase that summary ... open access to data open access to code open access to publications open source work must be reproducible needs to be web enabled The last bit , and I think this is an important component , is that open science is not binary . It occurs along a gradient . As for you second question , I would use reproducibility as a guide . The minimum data that needs to be accessible is that which allows for an anlalysis/project to be reproduced . Following the gradient theme , you could open up more than this , but that it is n't necessarily required .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
I 'm sure YMMV , but there is usually an Associate Editor ( a member of the Board to whom the paper was assigned ) that will make a recommendation to the Editor based on the reviews . The conversation you refer to usually takes place between the two of them . If an additional review is needed to decide , it can be requested . The rest of the Board is usually not involved ( they have their own assignments to worry about ) . As an author you may or may not know who the Associate Editor assigned to your paper is .
From the viewpoint of the repository ( although , I am speaking primarily from the viewpoint of a university institutional repository ) , it would not be considered unethical or undesirable for authors to submit their work to more than one repository . Open repositories are built to increase access to the products of research and creativity , by making works publicly and freely available online . Submitting work to more than one repository is another way for an author to increase accessibility to his/her work . The only copyright issue present would lie in the relationship between the author and the publisher that published the author 's article . Most journals allow authors to deposit pre-prints of their work , that do not contain any edits or revisions from the publication process , in open repositories . Others allow authors to deposit pre-prints of their work that have been revised to show the revisions made in the publication process , and a few journals will allow authors to deposit the final publisher 's version of the article . Some publishers will want their authors to wait a few months after publication before making their works accessible through open repositories . Journals rely on the quality and originality of the articles they publish to build reputation . As most journals charge subscription fees , the originality of their articles is important . Open repositories do not operate on this model , so the ethics of publishing in journal do not translate to depositing your work in an open repository . Most repositories require their authors to sign a non-exclusive distribution license to deposit their work , which allows the repository to make the work accessible online . As a non-exclusive license , authors retain the right to submit their work to journals , other publications and other repositories . Different open repositories have different functions . Institutional repositories capture the research and creative outputs of their host institutions . Subject-based repositories capture the the work being done in a specific field . Because repositories exist for different reasons , I would see no problem in submitting your work to multiple repositories .
The United Nations University does not really work as a normal university , but rather as a research center . The difference is that they recruit students from developing countries as for a period that can go from several months to a year , in order to make them work on concrete research projects , so that they can gain experience ( which can help them to apply for a Master of PhD program somewhere else ) . For instance , this a <URL> for students at the UNU-IIST ( International Institute for Software Technology ) . Note that the UNU-IIST also plan to offer a joint <URL> with the University of Pisa . Note also that it seems that each institute of the UNU is to some extent independent , so maybe other institutes provide more academic programs . So , to answer your questions , technically speaking there are students at the UNU ( when I was working at the UNU-IIST , there were something between 10 and 20 students ) , but they are not " enrolled " by the UNU , it 's more like some kind of internship .
When I look at an application there are four aspects that count : grades cover letter earlier written work ( BS/MS thesis ) Recommendation letters Out of these , I focus most of my attention on the latter two : if the thesis is well-written , has received a good grade , and the letters of recommendation support the candidate in terms of ability to do research ( from reading up on the field to writing everything up ) and independence ( how much ( or little ) support the candidate needed . The cover letter would not make the application , but could break it if it is unfocussed and does not show any skills in expressing the interest in a structured way while avoiding irrelevant information . The grades would , in most cases , be the least interesting since they primarily show one 's ability to read and understand , not necessarily reasoning and deduction . The exception is the grade for the thesis . So , to answer the question , I am not sure which might be more important but anything that supports your ability to do research is of prime interest to anyone evaluating an application . EDIT : To follow up on Gerrit 's suggestion , my personal ranking list would be ( in falling order ) : Earlier written work Recommendation letters Cover letter Grades ( although the grade on the written work is included in 1 ) But , all parts are useful and in the end some mix of all will be used . I would also add that 1 and 2 will " make " the application while 3 and 4 will mainly help to " break " the application .
When I have a manuscript nearly ready to submit , I send it ( by e-mail ) to colleagues who I think would be interested in it . I politely ask them to read it and send me any comments they have . Sometimes they do , and sometimes they do n't ; it 's understood that there is not an obligation . Of course , some of them send me their manuscripts too , and they 're more likely to read mine if I have read and commented on theirs . The colleagues I send the paper to ( usually about 2-4 in number ) may include : Senior people who have mentored me Past coauthors and collaborators People I do n't know but whose work is essential to that in my manuscript People in the first two categories are usually willing to assist based on our existing relationship ; those in the last category are generally pleased to see their work being cited and built on . I do n't usually need very specific feedback at this point in the process . If I was concerned , say , about the correctness of some part of the work , I would have worried about that long before I wrote the article . Occasionally I may have a specific question about , e.g. , suitability of the manuscript for a particular journal . In that case , I would send the article to one of the editors of the journal or to a colleague who often publishes in that journal , and ask specifically . Any colleagues who provide substantial feedback will be acknowledged at the end of the paper . Providing this kind of feedback certainly would n't qualify one for co-authorship .
Do graduate schools pay attention to joining Phi Kappa Phi or other honor societies ? As I understand it , eligibility for membership in Phi Kappa Phi is entirely determined by grades and class rank . If so , it wo n't help with grad school applications , since the admissions committee already has access to far more information about grades than they would learn from knowing the applicant is a member . Some fields may have honor societies for which membership conveys more information , but I do not think there is any widely known , field-independent example in the U.S. . In my experience on graduate admissions committees in mathematics , I 've never heard anyone discuss honor societies at all . I joined an honor society as an undergraduate , not because I saw personal benefits to it but because my parents would have been disappointed if I had declined membership . The only consequence for me has been that they occasionally send me a newsletter , but I 'm told some people do find membership to be useful or meaningful .
Since you intend to do it on CS I want to point out that the GRE Subject Test on CS ( the one usually asked ) will not be administrated anymore . According to the ETS website : The last administration of the GRE Computer Science Test will be in April 2013 . The test will be discontinued after the April 2013 administration . Scores will continue to be reportable for five years . ( <URL> ) I wanted to say this in a comment ( since it 's not exactly an answer , but I think it 's an important information to you ) , but I ca n't since I do n't have enough reputation on this website to do it :( Therefore , even though I think you wanted more a opinion from people already in academia , I feel obligated to put some more thought on my answer : I 'm a student , currently undergrad ( will graduate at the end of this year ) and I 'm " kinda on the same boat " ( from a third world country , wan na do a Ph.D. on in US in CS and I 've being somewhat lost regarding what to do ) . Here is a compilation about what I have found so far that may be helpful to you : The notions of PhD and MSc in the US may be somewhat different from what you are used to . Quoting from something I 've read in a university website ( ca n't remember which one right now ) " Masters is about breadth , PhD is about depth " . At least in my country ( and I 'm guessing it may be the same for yours ) , both are pretty depth-oriented . - > Keep in mind that , some MSc are breadth oriented , these may not be the droids you are looking for . Also , the programs vary a lot from place to place ... ( And if you are used to the fact that you have to do a MSc prior to the PhD , this is not true for a lot of PhD programs in the US , you can join then directly if you have a bachelor 's degree ) . Example : At CMU , the masters degree is " breadth-oriented " , meaning that you take a lot of advanced courses in various topics , and the PhD is totally research-oriented ( average 6 years , in contrast to the average 2-year MSc + 4-year PhD in my country ) . But in MIT , as far as I 've understood , you apply for grad school , if you are accept and you do n't have a MSc , you are put on a MSc program , if you already do , you are put on the PhD program ( so , seems to be a lot research oriented on both programs ) . - > Make sure you read thoroughly how the programs in the universities you intend to apply are , cause there 's no " standard " . About the " money " part of your question , as far as I 've seen , it goes something like this : MSc : You have to pay for tuition , you may get a paid TA-ship ( Teaching Assitant paid position ) , you may get an RA-ship ( Research Assistant paid position ) , but nothing is guaranteed . PhD : Top universities usually pay you monthly and if the professor that is orientating your research does n't have funding , you need to get an RA or TA job . On other universities , you may need to narrow your options to professors that have funding . - > Keep in mind that , PhD is a better option money-wise , but harder to get in . As pointed on the comments , research capability is a must ( for the " depth " programs at least ) and matters even more than grades . Quoting from a CMU professor on the " Grad School Talk " available at their website : It does not help you , in my opinion , to be closer to 4.0 [ GPA ] as opposed to 3.5 . It 's a much better idea to spend your time on research than on optimizing your GPA . - Keep in mind that proving your research capability matters a lot . But another important quote from this same pdf regarding grades is : Your grades may be somewhat low -- under 3.0 -- because you were having a good time in college and you may therefore be having trouble getting into a Ph.D. program . In this case , you may want to do an MS and use the time to boost your grades and reapply after the MS. Another important thing to note : The things that each program prioritize when looking at your application seem to vary a lot , even among programs at the same university/department . - > Try to figure out what the programs you are aplying prioritize . ( eg : by reading their websites well ) . About TOEFL : It matters a lot , but as far as I understand , it matters in a sense that it prevents you from getting in a program if you do n't have the minimum score needed . * Each university asks for a different TOEFL score . * The top universities ( regarding CS programs ) usually ask for 100 on the IBT ( internet based test , out of 120 ) , an exception being Stanford , that asks for 110 . Regarding IELTS : All universities seem to accept TOEFL , a lot of them seem to accept IELTS , but you need only one of them , so I suggest you go for the TOELF ( for US universities ) . As a plan of action , I suggest this one ( which is kinda what I 'm doing myself ) . Boost your ability to prove " research capability " : It 's VERY important that you have some prior research experience . Have you ever done research as an undergrad ? Do you have professors that can write a recommendation letter for you ? If you do n't , you are ( probably ) gon na need to pursuit this
Good question . I am a tenured ( associate ) math professor at UGA . To be ( too ? ) honest , I sometimes find graduate visitation days to be slightly awkward . With most of the students , they and I want to have something to talk about ; for many of the students , we will have something to talk about at some future point ; for a few of the students , we will become so close that it will be hard to remember these first awkward conversations . I just remembered a visitation day where I almost sullenly plopped myself down at a barroom table next to a certain prospective student and a bunch of current students . They were more trying to have a conversation than actually having a conversation . At one point the topic turned to some elementary topology problem the prospective student had in mind for some reason . One of the current students was studying topology and she got interested and started to try to work it out . Alas I was still bored , and after a few minutes I quietly uttered a few words . The current student paused for a second , then her eyes lit up , and very soon after I got my chance to politely excuse myself and get another drink . That prospective student is now my PhD student , but the bond was not forged on that day . But still , we should try . 1 ) I hear you study X. I 've studied only a little bit of it so far , but I remember learning about Y. Can you tell me a little about your work ? " Can you tell me about your work ? " is a very natural question that sadly can often be a showstopper . The honest answer for many professors when talking to perfectly capable students who may later turn out to be their students is often " Not very meaningfully , no . " Above I tried to frame the question in a little better way . How is it better ? Well for one thing , asking a professor in a department you 're visiting what they do can come off as lazy : almost everyone has a wealth of information available on their webpage now . If the student really cared , would n't they look a little bit in advance ? So the framing of the question shows that the student has looked a little bit in advance . It also clues the professor in to what might be an appropriate level at which to pitch the explanation . If X is number theory ( as it is for me ) , then if Y is " Wilson 's Theorem " I 'm going to say something very different than if Y is " the Chebotarev Density Theorem " . Still it 's probably best not to say too much . I remember asking one professor this when I was a prospective student and he said , " Yes , I study number theory , as do several other faculty members here . I guess what distinguishes me is that I 've also become very interested in representation theory , and my work uses that to a larger extent than the others . Does that make sense to you ? " The person who said this to me was Dick Gross , and yes it did make sense , and as a two sentence orientation to who he was and what he did it functioned brilliantly then and it still does , but I see now what a lot of confidence and experience he must have had to know to say so little . And he asked me if I understood , and if I had n't he probably would have said something else : he seemed like a nice guy ... and it turns out that he is . ( I do n't remember what I said after that . I think it would have been like me at the time to try to show some knowledge by asking a question -- that 's a young math student type of thing to do . So I 'll imagine that I asked " What kind of representation theory ? " because I would have known that there were finite groups , Lie groups and so forth . And Gross would have replied " Algebraic groups " . At that point I would have had to admit that I was totally lost ... and my being lost would be of no lasting significance : suffice it to say that I have since learned about that topic ! ) 2 ) Do you do any computer work ? I think that 's an increasingly important question . Nowadays a math student has to locate himself on the spectrum of more computation / less computation . If you 're thinking about working with a faculty member , you definitely want to know this . 3 ) Are you interested in real-world applications of your work ? Have you ever done any consulting or other outside work ? Again , a key question . You should already be starting to think about these sorts of questions for yourself . I , for instance , have absolutely zero contacts in industry , so I would be a terrible advisor for a student who was inclined in that direction , even if we had common mathematical interests . 4 ) How long have you been here ? That 's a nice question for one human being to ask another . The professor will probably respond with some personal information about the town or their housing situation or their family or ... something . 5 ) Where did you get your PhD ? You would think that would be a kind of backward-looking question to ask a professor , but actually academics ask each other that kind of thing all the time . Sad to say we really do try to have little portions of the CVs of hundred
For most conferences , the primary costs are : Venue Catering Society fees Program and proceedings Keynote / scholarship travel sponsorship The price of these is wildly variable depending on the arrangements that have been made . At the low end , consider a conference using university meeting rooms , asking people to go out for lunch on their own , using volunteer labor and keeping program and proceedings electronic . This can be extremely cheap , on the order of a couple of dollars per attendee , even for a rather large meeting . When a conference meets in a hotel , the expenses go up like crazy . For a week-long conference in a major city hotel , the venue and catering expenses can easily run as high as $ 500/person . These are often required to be booked far in advance , based on the number of people expected to register for the conference , and there may be limited flexibility to change these numbers if attendance falls short . Hotels also frequently ask a conference to have attendees book in the hotel , and will ask for " insurance " from a conference in the form of a commitment to get at least a certain number of rooms booked and to pay for unbooked rooms if the conference falls short of that commitment . This can add thousands of dollars of expenses . These factors can operate at universities too , which sometimes demand high venue and catering fees even when their own professors are organizing . With an expensive venue , then , a conference 's organizers can thus get very nervous about whether they will have enough money to cover their anticipated expenses , if registrations are less than anticipated . This is especially the case if the conference has had difficulty meeting its expenses in the past , and may be in trouble with its sponsoring society as a result . Forcing people to register per paper is one response to trying to avoid this type of shortfall . Not only is there the fee , but if you 're registering a second time , you 're more likely to send a second person from the group , who will likely have their own hotel room . For a conference that may be facing a shortfall in its hotel commitments , a single registration easily can be worth $ 2000 in increased income and decreased hotel penalty . Personally , I still do n't approve : I think that a conference operating at such a razor 's edge would do better to take other approaches to trying to make up its budget shortfall . I can understand , however , why the organizers of respectable conferences sometimes choose to do it : it 's not that they are getting rich , but that they are trying to keep from going bankrupt while they make their venue rich .
It is time to decide whether to lead or get out of the way . If you choose to get out of the way , you will need to either find a PhD project that does interest you or do something else . The more interesting and constructive option is to decide to lead . You have presumably spent some time learning the background to the project . The new students do not have that background , but are interested in the project . You should do everything you can to help them succeed . Work with them on deciding what should be coded , bringing your background knowledge to the table . Work with them on turning results into papers . You do n't have to code better than them , just make their coding more effective than it would have been without your efforts .
I believe this is an institution-dependent issue . Different departments and schools may have very different approaches as to what is formally allowed . In this day and age , however , collaborations , particularly between different departments or institutions , is generally looked on favorably . Whether it rises to an " official " arrangement or not , however , is clearly a different matter . I do n't believe that this is normally done via an employment contract ; I think this is handled according to the regulations of the department -- so the chair or graduate officer ( or whoever normally approves student-advisor matches ) would have to sign off on the arrangement . The responsibility for making sure all appropriate procedures are followed , however , lies with the advising team . ( In general , this only matters with respect to the thesis committee and matters related to the thesis defense itself . ) The only other situation which might complicate matters is if both advisors are jointly funding the student ; then the situation is certainly thornier . However , for such purposes , usually one advisor is the " hosting " advisor who has the primary responsibility for the student , which normally obviates the need for a complicated contract .
Before jumping to conclusions , first review your university 's grading policy . There may have been changes to the classification system . If , after reviewing it , you find that the grade is indeed " negative , " then you need to have a conversation with your advisor . Do not come with an accusatory tone , as that will end badly for everyone . I would ask something like : " I 'm a little confused about my thesis grade . I thought I was making satisfactory progress this semester . Could you explain what I need to do to improve ? " This will give your advisor an " out " if there was just an administrative mixup ( for example , if it 's a bubble form that was improperly filled out ) or some other problem . On the other hand , if there 's something serious , then you 'll know . But usually a good advisor will level with you if there 's serious issues in your work .
The answer to all your questions depends on the university . There are only some rough standards which needs to be implemented by the universities . If you consider computer science at my university the state dictated that one has to have a good bachelor to enroll in the master courses . Now there are two possibilities : Either you have a grade better than 2.5 ( which is a B - in the European grading system and considered barely good ) or you have to give reasons why your bachelor is weaker and then a committee has to decide whether you are allowed to enroll . But I know that other universities and even other departments at my university have other rules .
In general , you 're in a very tough situation . Most of the " big name " fellowships are moving away from funding older students , on the relatively flimsy rationale that they 're making a bigger impact by funding less experienced students from the start of their program . There are a few programs that do support late-term graduate students ; these are typically known as dissertation fellowships . Examples include the <URL> , but these also have other restrictions associated with them ( for instance , a commitment to a teaching career ) . Similarly , the <URL> primarily supports environmental and energy-related research , while the <URL> is for African-American students in biomedical-related fields . So there are resources available , but they are certainly very limited in scope , and you 'll need to make sure you meet all of the qualification criteria . The other problem for you is that these fellowships are typically only one year in duration , so if , as you say , you are two years away from finishing , you will need to find some means to finance one year of study , either through TA 's or other sources of funding . In the meanwhile , you should talk with your advisor if there are other resources within the group to help you -- at least partially .
end question
start question
As an instructor , how to use the first day of class ?
Students basically want to know if they should take your class . To that end I would include A short ( 10-15 minute ) sales pitch explaining what exactly your class is about and why your topic is interesting . Administrative details of the class ( I would cover this after the sales pitch , so students who are late do n't miss anything ) . A presentation on the first topic in your syllabus . This is important because hearing your first lecture will give them a good idea of the difficulty of the class , which prerequisites are required , and the style/quality of your lecturing . Also , if your entire first lecture is a sales pitch , students will feel like they wasted time coming to your class , or that your class is " easy " / not serious .
The university I 'm at recently had a class with lecture in the morning , lab that afternoon , exam an hour after that , then a quiz the following morning in lecture , and finally a recitation that afternoon . Summer semesters tend to be like this as they are shorter in length than a fall or spring semester . No one is happy with it , but it 's what needs to happen to cover all the requisite material . What would typically happen during a regular semester is that labs ca n't be moved or adjusted , but usually the following lecture is either shorter of cancelled if it is the next day and the lecture the day of the exam is mostly review . But I must point out it is at the discretion of the professor .
My wife , who has some experience in these matters , says the following : If the student is dropped from the class , making them no longer a full-time student , then they may lose visa status and be required to leave the country within days . If the student fails , however , then it is up to the college whether to kick them out or not : so far as immigration is concerned , what matters is whether they are a full-time student , not how well they are doing . Another possible option , which may or may not be possible in your institution , would be to try to arrange a late transfer into another " class " like an independent study , which would have no transcript value but would preserve full-time status .
Updated to address comments . If Project XYZ is simply a funding agency or entity that may have provided funds or materials but no intellectual contribution , then you use the phrase " We acknowledge Agency XYZ ( Grant # ) for financial support " or " Funding provided through Project XYZ ( Grant # ) . " For example , if your work is supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health ... " Funding for this work was provided by the NIH , Center for Work on Really Interesting Science ( # 1234567890 ) ... " If project XYZ has defined the research problem/scope , you could say " This research was inspired by Project XYZ " or " This research follows from Porject XYZ . " If Project XYZ is an institute , center , or other entity that worked with you on your project , then you use the phase " in collaboration with " . For example , if your computational model was run on at the <URL> , you might say : " This work was conducted in collaboration with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center [ ref ] ... " Lastly , if the intellectual contribution from someone at Project XYZ was large , that person needs to have their name on your paper ( with placement in the order according to the customs of your field ) : Grad Student who did the work * , Grad Student who did less work * , Grad Student at Project XYZ # , Collaborating PI at Project XYZ # , Your PI * Affiliations :
Why would knowing in advance matter to anyone except cheaters ? This information will not help honest students prepare for the exam or change how they approach it , so for them announcing it afterwards seems just as good as in advance . One argument for announcing it in advance is that some potential cheaters might decide not to try to cheat ( and spend more time studying or become a little more honest ) , but the counterargument is that it might just encourage them to find more effective methods of cheating . I do n't consider either of these arguments especially compelling , and I 'm not convinced it really matters much whether the announcement is before or after the exam . This issue tends to come up in large courses , which are often pretty standardized . I 'd bet the students who care whether there are multiple versions of the exam can easily find out what this professor has done in other large classes , so there usually wo n't be much of an element of surprise .
There is no " typical " number in this matter . Let 's take a few examples : UK , lecturer : it 's usually a full-time position , so you have to put in 35-40 hours per week . The ratio of lecture time over all the rest ( preparation , departmental committees , etc. ) depends on the contract , but I have rarely seen it pushed past 1:1 ( which means roughly 20 hours of teaching , maybe 25 at most ) . France , " PRAG " : this is the position of a high-School teacher detached to a university , and the closest one to a lecturer position . Their nominal teaching load is 384 hours per year , with a weight of 1.5 for lectures and 1 for exercises sessions . But for one the year is very short , from about 23 to 26 weeks , so that means about 15 hours per week , and this is only the nominal amount . In any cases , they ( voluntarily or not ) have to teach additional hours , which are paid in addition ( to a lower rate than nominal hours ) . As a point of comparison : a French high-school teacher would have 18 teaching hours per week . Other comparison points , less relevant to the question as they are for teaching + research positions : France , associate professor ( matre de confrences ) : junior-level position , supposed to be half teaching and half research . This has a fixed number of 192 teaching hours per year . If you consider that those are spread on 30 weeks , it gives 6.4 hours per week . Even considering it is not a teaching-only position , that number is lower than the one you quote . France , full professor ( professeur des universits ) : same number of hours in theory , but as you gain seniority you can do more full-class teaching ( with bigger groups ) , of which every hour counts as 1.5 hour in your yearly total . Through this , and other mechanisms , senior professors usually have fewer hours to teach .
This is n't just PhD theses : many books are formatted so that all chapters start on a right-hand page . Conventionally , all right-hand pages have odd numbers , and left-hand pages have even numbers . However , theses are often formatted single-sided , for the convenience of examiners , and so there would be no right/left distinction in that instance . Another possibility is that page numbering sometimes uses Roman numerals for the " front matter " ( all pages before the start of the first chapter ) , and then begins again with Arabic numerals for the " main matter " . In this case , the first chapter will start with page 1 , which is an odd number . Your observation will not be the case for all theses , but it may hold when the institution 's rules , or the software tools being used , follow these standard formatting principles .
You do n't first co-author a paper , you first collaborate on a research effort . Then , if said research effort leads to interesting results , you co-author a paper . So you need to look for someone doing interesting research that you think you can contribute to . Talk to professors in your department and ask about the research they and their students are doing . Of course , since co-authoring a paper is important to you , when you find the opportunity to be part of a research project you should ask the professor : " Do you think this is likely to lead to a paper before I graduate ? " Nobody can promise you a paper ( even if you do everything right , the nature of research is that we do n't know everything in advance ) . But he/she will probably have some intuition about it . You should also ask what you specifically need to do to merit co-authorship credit on the paper that comes out of the research .
It will be a huge timesaver if you can get lecture notes from someone who has taught the class before . There 's a big difference between understanding the material well enough to solve problems and answer questions and understanding it well enough to find the clearest , most succinct way to present it . If you get someone else 's lecture notes , you will only have to attain the first level of mastery , rather than the second ; this will save you a lot of time . Before the class starts , you should sit down with the syllabus ( presumably you can get one from someone who 's taught it before ; typically , the first time I teach a class , I do n't change much unless I have a good reason to ) and try to understand the structure ( " story arc " ) of the class . What are the big ideas ? For example , in Calculus I , some of these are : limits , derivatives , integrals , applications . That gives you a sense of where you 're going and helps you to know what may be important . Do n't feel like you have to know every little detail perfectly . The stuff that will likely stump you will be the obscure corner cases . The stuff that most of your students will struggle with will be much more basic , like the limit definition of a derivative , and precalc and algebra . If a student asks you a question that you ca n't answer right away , learn to be comfortable saying " that 's a great question " ; it 's a little outside of the scope of this lecture , but I 'd be happy to talk with you about it after class . Thinking on your feet in front of an audience ( especially about unfamiliar material ) can be really tough . Most of the time , you can avoid it . Usually the student will be happy to talk with you after class . The reduced pressure of not being in front of the other students will help you to think more clearly . If you still ca n't answer the question after a reasonable amount of time , say " This is a good question . Let me think about it some more and get back to you in class next time . " At that point , feel free to ask your colleagues . Often one of them will have encountered the question before , and will know the answer off the top of their head . tl ; dnr Get lots of help from colleagues who have taught the class before . Typically , it wo n't take much time from them , but it will save you a lot of time ( later , when roles are reversed , be willing to do the same for someone else ) . You do n't have to be perfect . If you have decent lecture notes , and you really engage with the students and answer their question , you 'll be fine .
Life can be simplified without resorting to wearing a set of uniforms . While uniform is the ultimate form of simplicity , when your are the only one doing it in a place that uniform is not a norm , people may perceive you wearing the same piece of clothes everyday even you change into a clean set daily . It 's easy to explain it to an acquaintance , but difficult to clarify if a professor has decided that you 're unkempt . They can not really come up close and sniff you so visual clues are the only clues . We can get the best of both world by simplifying the wardrobe while keeping the maximal versatility . One of the common concepts is <URL> . Here is an example : <URL> By using different combinations one can get different looks from Mon to Fri with only a few shirts and a couple pairs of pants . Designing a capsule wardrobe does take time but it 'd serve you well for a couple seasons or even longer . Tips to make one are available online . Here are some general points : Plan for the shopping instead of base on impulse . Decide on a set of color schemes that are easily paired , colors along grey , blue , and brown scales are a good start . I often pick one accent color ( currently green ) for more variations ( e.g. a tie or socks with green patterns ) . Start small . For a season , I found 3-4 tops , 2-3 pants , 2 pairs of shoes , and 1-2 jackets seem to do the job quite well . I do n't wear suits for the current position . Buy quality stuff , especially for coats , suits , wool sweaters , and shoes . It 's actually not that difficult . I tried it last year . I cleaned up my closet , and then just find some scheme online that I like and modify them to the colors and style that I wanted . So far I can pick out my clothes without even thinking about it and I never felt I 'm wearing the same thing day to day . Hope this helps !
It sounds like a good thing to do , since the reviewing process for this journal is over . I would certainly appreciate it if I where the author of that article ( passed the frustration that generally follows article rejection ) . It 's almost certain that it will be submitted somewhere else , so your ( free ) inputs will benefit the authors and the community . This is valid , of course , only if you are not reviewer again in the next submission , you should definitely decline if it happens .
I came across the following study : T McElroy , L Mosteller The influence of circadian type , time of day and class difficulty on students ' grades . <URL> In the conclusions of the work , they mention that the students have a best performance if their optimal time-of-day ( i.e. , if they are monrningness type or eveniningness type ) coincide with the class schedule . By contrast the classes that require less cognitive functioning are less sensitive to the advantage and disadvantage of optimal and non-optimal time-of-day .
My policy : the first time you contact the person , go with Mr. Doe ( or Ms. Doe ) , but sign with your first name . The latter is a signal that you are OK with a " first name email relationship " , from this point it will be so most of the time .
The first two kinds of questions should be asked in the course 's public discussion area so that the answers will benefit all students . Since you 've used " all the other tools " in the course , perhaps you 've done that . I suggest a concerned phone call to the department chair . If the professor is not present in the course at all , ask , " Is Dr. X OK ? He has n't been in the course in several weeks . " If he 's around , but ignoring you , ask , " Do you know whether I 've somehow offended Dr. X ? He has n't answered any of my questions in several weeks . " The point is to give the chair a chance to make corrections without having said anything like " ignoring me . " If it has already been several weeks , I 'd suggest doing this very soon . Be as specific as possible about dates when the instructor stopped responding , how other work such as quizzes is handled , etc. .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
A method which I learned quite recently is the <URL> . I think it is a great method , as it is quick , and it does not require much effort both on your part and your students . You will need to distribute three small pieces of paper ( e.g. Post-it ) to each student , ask them to label Start , Stop , and Continue , respectively , on the top of each paper , and then ask them to list on each paper , according to the label , what they think you should start doing , stop doing , and continue doing . Ask them to submit their papers before they leave .
It 's not rude , but the professor might want to adjust the assignments later on , in which case he/she wo n't be able to satisfy your request . So go ahead making the request simply being honest in the wordings , but be prepared to be denied .
The issue with getting a letter from a post-doc is not their job title ; it 's the degree of experience they have with different students , and the authority with which they can judge their preparedness for a graduate program . So , it 's not that a letter from a postdoc is unacceptable and as soon as they have an assistant professorship everything is great . There 's a subtle continuum where the more experience someone has , the more weight their letter has , because they have known so many more students . Also , this is a bit more cynical , but humans are social creatures . It 's well-nigh unavoidable that they give more weight to a letter from someone they know personally . A postdoc is much less likely to be well-connected and thus able to leverage this for you .
You need to run this by your Institutional Review Board ( IRB ) , as you would any time you use data from human subjects for research . From what you describe , it has a good chance of qualifying for an <URL> under one of these categories ( if identifying information is removed before giving the data to the researcher ) : It is using existing data the data comes from normal educational practices but even then , the IRB needs to be the one to make that determination .
It depends . What does your acknowledgement say when you had submitted your application ? If you were told something like " you will be informed your result by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that regard by that period , then you can write an e-mail to inquire the status of your application . If you were told something like " only successful candidates will be informed by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that matter , then you can write an e-mail to your contact person to know the status . In any case , you can write email politely to know about your application status if you think it is already too late . There is no harm to inquiring application status .
end question
start question
Test an already existing hypothesis but in a different setting/country ?
If testing the same hypothesis again is plagiarism , then the reproducible science folks are in trouble . You seem to have a very flawed notion of what plagiarism is - it 's the wholesale copying of writing without attributing it to a source . What it is n't is performing the same experiment in a different setting . Not only can you continue , but you should . Testing the same hypothesis in a different population helps to uncover the variability of the effect , its generalizability , etc. . Testing the same hypothesis in different settings is good research . In some fields , this is even recognized as important enough that " Someone else did this elsewhere " is n't even particularly grounds to consider your work not important .
Taking your statements at face value ( and thus imagining something like the others having designed X and evaluated X in a study , while you implemented X based upon their designs ) , this sounds like a typical situation where you should be mentioned for having conducted the implementation/practical construction . This should certainly happen in a presentation of the work , and possibly ( if the paper has an Acknowledgments section and if space allows for it ) also in the written text . Admittedly , this is at the verge participating in the design / idea of the research at hand ( and maybe you even did contribute some detail decisions without realizing ) , so including you as an author depends a bit on the concrete circumstances - and also on the main authors ' personal preference ( but then , so might accusations of gift authorship in this case ) . As for how to bring this up with the authors , you could ask in a somewhat unspecific way such as " I 'm interested in gradually increasing my level of participation in research papers , is there a chance for increasing my contributions and acting as a co-author in the future ? " That way , chances are the main authors will immediately get the idea of adding you one way or another in the current paper , while at the same time , you are not burning any bridges by appearing too demanding .
I had a similar situation , there were a few papers I assisted with as an undergraduate where I was listed in the acknowledgements but was n't listed as an author . Generally , people do n't list those on their CV , simply because it will look odd ... you 'll get a lot of people asking , " why are you listing this if your name is n't on it ? " That said , since it 's your CV , you can list anything you want with the proper commentary . You may consider listing it as : < Citation goes here > Note : I am listed in the acknowledgements section for this paper , as I assisted extensively with data preparation and analysis . Do realize that the fact that your name is n't on the paper will significantly decrease it 's value in your promoting yourself . The more I think about it , it 's probably a bad idea to list it ... I would recommend just listing the work you did in the appropriate section on your CV and leave the paper out .
In my opinion , yes . You paper will prove that those techniques are useful and usable by using them to solve a practical problem . I consider it a contribution to human kind , thus valuable to get published . Whether or not it will be accepted by journal/conference is another issue . You should try . Please send it to be peer-reviewed .
Basically , admissions decisions follow from two main issues : government policies regarding funding and immigration the available pool of applicants For instance , recent policies in California made it very difficult for the University of California system to enroll international graduate students . This was not the result of internal decisions , but rather something imposed upon them by the government . Similarly , a visa embargo applied to a particular country would make it impossible for a university to bring in students from that country . Other than that , I think most graduate admissions groups are looking for the best available talent , rather than having a specific quota of domestic or international students . They might do some recruiting domestically if they 're not getting enough domestic candidates ( compared to any " targets " they might have ) , but I do n't think they 're going to admit domestic candidates that are unqualified just because they 're domestic .
You cite the original title , for the very reason you gave : to enable readers to find the original title . If your work is subject to guidelines , you should also check those . Usually , there is no point in giving a translation of the title as it does not contain any relevant information for the reader . Many citation styles do not mention the title of papers at all . I see two exceptions though : If a translation of the cited work into English exists ( but you worked with the French original ) , you can mention it in addition to the French title , e.g. with : [ actual citation ] ( translated into English under the title [ translated title ] ) If the title allows the reader to estimate what the source contains and whether they want to read it at all . In this case , you should arguably change your text such that it states in what way the citation is relevant for your work .
In my opinion , there are two approaches to answering this question . The first ( which seems that the OP expects here ) represents references to publications , containing global summary statistics on doctoral graduates across the indicators of interest , such as age , field of study and country . In this category , IMHO the most well-known and comprehensive is the Education at a Glance report by <URL> . AFAIK , the latest such report is <URL> , which , along with supplementary materials ( i.e. , highlights ) , can be accessed in various formats from <URL> . The second , open data , approach , which while not requested , I recommend to those wanting to perform their own statistical data analysis , which might be very interesting especially by combining the indicators of interest with other socio-technical and economical indicators , widely available from open data repositories . In particular , for this specific question / category , I would suggest analyzing the following two open data sets from OECD , which can/should be combined in order to perform needed analysis : <URL> and <URL> .
It depends on the department . I have been looking at various applied mathematics departments in the USA and all of them want PhD students to go through the coursework and obtain an MS , even if they already did a masters degree before . I think in general , there is no chance to skip coursework . This is probably because different universities have different standards and syllabuses for the same course . And they want to ensure everyone is up to the same standard and have taken the same syllabus . But do check with the department , there are always exceptions . P.S. However , it does n't have to be a " waste " of two years . The level of the course might be higher and you are probably able to choose different courses to get broader experiences . If all else fails and you are able to ace all the courses with no problem , you can always spend the extra time looking for a thesis adviser or find research collaborators .
I do not think you should reuse the letter as is , for two reasons : The letter writer did not intend for it to be reused , or else it would have been written more generically . It 's generally not reasonable to use such a letter outside of the circumstances envisioned/authorized by its author . You would have to explain that there 's no realistic way to contact the writer , and that is itself a red flag . It looks suspicious to say " here 's what Professor X would say if you could contact him , but you ca n't " . A letter is n't worth much if the committee could n't in principle contact the writer to confirm or ask further question . Certain rare cases might merit an exception , such as reusing a letter from someone who has since died . ( Where the death is a matter of public record , everybody assumes that of course the writer would have updated the letter if death had n't intervened , and they are inclined towards flexibility because of the difficult situation . ) How hard would it really be to contact the letter writer ? If it 's inconvenient but not impossible , then it could be your best option .
No , there is no need to . Uploading to Arxiv is more than enough . Your Google scholar profile finds all arxiv papers and will notify those who follow your work about your new paper . You can also add a link to the arxiv PDF in your university and personal page . That way , you will only have to update the arxiv version of your paper , without having to ever update again your personal and university webpage . For academia.edu and researchgate I would never bother to upload PDFs . If someone is interested in your work and can not google your name to find the arxiv uploaded version , then I doubt you will get anything meaningful or useful ( e.g. , citation , collaboration ) from such a person , no matter where you upload your papers .
I have just checked that changing authors when replacing a paper is technically enabled . I am pretty sure I have seen this happen : those with more searching savvy than I will surely turn up with actual examples . And yes , the arxiv maintains all previous postings and their authorship . I do n't see any ethical problems with what you propose . But I 'm not sure I understand the message that you 're seeking to convey : are you saying that you attach some meaning to an initial posting by your student only followed by a replacement jointly authored with you ? To me that does not have a clear meaning ( and by the way , some people will look at the first posting and many wo n't ) . If anything , that would look to me like you realized that what your student uploaded was not satisfactory , so you stepped in to salvage the situation . If that 's not what you 're going for , maybe do n't do this . Why not just upload a jointly authored posting the first time around ?
You 'd have to ask the conference organization . You should try to get somebody to present the work for you , or ( just out of courtesy ) tell them it wo n't be presented ( so they can schedule talks correctly ) . What will happen is up to the conference . Some I 've attended just did not publish papers which were n't presented , others did publish in their proceedings regardless ( you had to pay any attendance fees , at the very least ) . What happens with " selected papers " also varies , one conference I went to selected papers only among those presented , including in their selection the presentation and questions and answers , asking selected authors for a revision based on the above .
In principle this is possible , however , when using data collected by somebody else you have to take great care not to produce bad science . Data collection is usualy performed with a certain specific application in mind , and when collecting data you have to make sure that the errors introduced in the collection process do not influence the final result in a way that is important for your purpose . If you use the same data for some other purpose your results will likely be affected by some bias . So if you want to corelate oil prices with GDP growth , you are fine , but with more complex questions you are in real danger .
For interdisciplinary researchers , this sort of thing can happen fairly often . For example , if you are a chemist working on ecological applications , you might well have started out in a chemistry department and end up in an ecology department , or vice versa . This happens even more so when dealing with disciplines that may be categorized differently by different institutions : for example , is work on medical devices part of biology and the natural sciences faculty or part of electrical or mechanical engineering ? Generally , however , if it 's going to happen , there is at least some logical trail that you can see how the faculty member got from point A to point B.
Some conferences explicitly encourage ( or even require ) poster presentation of papers . In this case , there is typically an option to simply request that your existing paper also be given a poster slot . Thus , it may in fact be quite reasonable to seek to present in both ways , if the conference supports this . It would not , however , be appropriate to submit a separate poster paper that pretends to be different than the accepted paper . That would be self-plagiarism , and the conference organizers might look very badly upon you for doing that . I would thus recommend getting in touch with the poster chair and asking if they allow accepted full papers to have an accompanying poster as well . If so , that 's great , and you probably do n't need to submit anything more than a formality at most . If not , then accept that there will be no poster and do n't submit anything !
As usual , rules on this sort of thing will vary from country to country and from grant agency to agency . However , all three options that you mention sound plausible to me . To go over them : Decline the grant ( ... ) Sure . Nobody can fault you for declining a grant that pays so much below standard salaries . Honestly , unless I had no other options , this is likely what I would do . I am not sure I would call it " wasteful " to decline a grant that , honestly , sounds like a terrible option to begin with . Convince the department to co-finance ( ... ) This is indeed not unheard of . Of course , whether you will be able to convince the department to do so largely depends on how much they want you to be there , what their regulations are , and if they have money to spare . I have seen this sort of co-financing mostly in cases where the department and the applicant were already in longer contact , and the public grant was mostly acquired as a way to make a move that was happening anyway cheaper for the department ( that is , it was planned that the candidate joins them anyway , but now a part is paid via an external grant ) . If the department had no intentions to hire you without the grant it becomes substantially less likely that they will be willing or able to chip in . ( ... ) obtain another grant ( ... ) This sounds like another plausible option , but check the regulations of both grant agencies . In many cases , full-time personal grants are exclusive - that is , you can have only one at a time , even if the stipend is very low . However , it may still be an option to apply not for a second personal grant , but for a regular research project that allows you to pay a salary supplement for yourself . Whether this is possible again depends on the grant agency . For instance , the SNF in Switzerland as a rule never allows to pay any money to yourself as part of a regular research project . The FWF in Austria , on the other hand , is perfectly fine with this as long as the rules of the host institution ( regarding , for instance , maximum employment ) , are followed . That being said , with this option you should probably expect to live off the 60 % stipend for a while , as the application procedure for grants tends to take a while .
Why do n't you write the corresponding author and ask them what the sample size was . You can always cite the sample size , if you decide to use the study , as a personal communication .
Usually the system goes like this : Good answer = get some points , no answer = no points , wrong answer = negative points . Note that by this system , students who do n't study a part of the material do get penalized by not getting any points , is just that the penalty is not as big as by guessing the wrong answer . I do believe that this system works well as it is and would be wrong to penalize wrong answers . The catch is that the system has to be designed in such a way that the expected value for random guessing should be lower than the expected value for no answers . Here is why I think why negative blanks would be wrong : In theory , the goal of the tests is to test what the students know and what they do n't know . By encouraging them to leave blanks when they do n't know the answer it becomes clear even to them what they do not know and what they know . Also , by forcing them to answer at random the grade of average and weak students becomes more a measure of luck than of knowledge . A weak student who guesses by luck 7 out of 12 answers will get more points than a student who does n't know 6 answers but misses all 6 of them . And if you think that this is not relevant , ask yourself the following question : would you trust your doctor if he passed his classes by guessing the answers ? Would you trust him if he diagnoses by randomly guessing ? P.S. Just to clarify , the answer to your question depends by what you understand by " improved test results " . For me the relevance of a test is to test the actual knowledge of the students , and a test result is good if there is a strong correlation between the knowledge and the result . In this sense , the test results would definitely not improve . If by test results you understand the average score , then the scores would improve . But then , instead of doing this just give each student 100 % , that would be the best test ever right ? But then , the score of the " best test ever " would be completely irrelevant , and most likely useless ( especially in the cases where the score is used for ranking i.e. admission , scholarships , . . )
When ? Whenever there is a set of papers that has significantly extended or changed the topic of interest . If you have to do it as part of your thesis . If you are contributing with a new approach/method in a publication ( the literature review would typically be part of the Introduction ) . My advice : do not spend too much time on writing and trying to publish a literature review if the problem has not evolved significantly during this time . Most of this kind of works get lost in an ocean of surveys .
This is perfectly acceptable . It is , in fact , fairly common to " upgrade " a white-paper , technical note , or other such non-peer-reviewed publication into a peer-reviewed publication . Two important caveats , however : The appropriate form for a peer-reviewed publication is generally very different than for a blog post or similar informal format . You will likely need to almost entirely rewrite the publication in any case . If the other material is durably available or has been circulated in academic circles previously , however , you should acknowledge this fact and reference the prior publications . This may be in the form of a citation , or in the cover letter of the article , or both .
end question
start question
What documents need to be shredded ?
When if comes to reviewing grants and publications , from an ethical perspective , my understanding is that you have three duties : To not compromise the authors ' priority in their investigation of their ideas and their ability to capitalize on investments in preliminary work . To not compromise any intellectual property claims through premature release of information . To not expose the authors to potential embarrassment due to the harsh and mocking comments scrawled all over the place in red pen . If you personally are behaving ethically , then it really comes down to how much you trust your recycling waste stream . Is there any likelihood of a student , colleague , or other malicious agent going through the bin and pulling out the information , either intentionally or just in a search for scrap paper ? Shredding is definitely safe , but a low-priority piece of information in a big communal recycling bin with a latch is also certainly exercising a reasonable standard of caution unless you have reason to believe that you or your institution are being targeted for industrial espionage ( yes , it happens ) . Honestly , though , in most cases the information just is n't important enough to worry about . An incremental paper presenting the next step of a well-established program , a badly written manuscript on its way to a well-deserved reject , a grant proposal filled with " you should totally fund us to keep doing what we 're doing " -- these sorts of things just are n't of much interest to anybody except the authors and their close colleagues in any case , and are probably perfectly safe in the recycling bin . It 's not ideal , but it 's also very low risk . Beyond ethics , I believe that there are also sometimes legal requirements , particularly when it comes to being an external reviewed of grant applications for government agencies . In that case , the best thing to do is to ask the program manager involved .
This question is too broad , but I have a feeling it 's a commonly asked one , so I 'm going to try to answer it anyways . To address ( what used to be ) your second question first : holding a PhD does not make a job candidate any more desirable for the vast majority of positions . Indeed , it can be a factor against the candidate , as they will be perceived as more expensive . For positions where a less-qualified candidate could also fill the role , being overqualified is rarely a good thing . Jobs that are specifically looking for a PhD will typically state that in the requirements . For example , " Masters required , PhD preferred " is a common one in certain parts of the banking sector . However , for entry-level positions ( data entry , lower-level analyst roles , etc ) , you may be at a disadvantage . Regarding your first question , though , you 're being overly harsh on yourself . The process of earning a PhD is significant work experience ; indeed , that 's your main selling point when looking for your first job . Depending on what you did , you will have some or all of the following experience : Identifying , clearly stating , and figuring out how to address a problem - this alone qualifies you to be a consultant at any large firm ; this is all they do , all the time , for different clients Project management Advanced technical writing - your thesis , academic publications Communication skills - working through the peer-review process Public speaking - presenting at conferences Experimental design - your research project The art of researching - the simple knowledge of how to properly find articles , sources , etc ... Even better , you 've been doing all that for four years . You should be selling every single one of those points as hard as you can when you move to industry . EDIT : The above answer stands for the edited second question as well ; as a graduate student , you will want to learn all of the above if you wish to enter the workforce . More specifically , though , almost industry positions seeking PhD candidates will apply to value the following three above most else : Self-starter - shown in that you got your work done Collaborative - demonstrated through successful collaborations with other researchers ( successful = researched together , published together ) Good communication - demonstrated through publications , public speaking , conference presentations , teaching , etc. . During the PhD , aim to do those things , and during your job search , emphasize all those traits in your resume and during interviews .
Certainly , a good literature review paper ( also frequently referred to as a survey paper ) would be an attractive asset in anyone 's academic portfolio . However , it is easier said then done . Some people on this site even replied to one of my related questions that such papers is more of a prerogative of senior , very experienced scholars . Perhaps , there is some truth to it ; likely , a lot of truth . However , I do think that those opinions should not prevent people from attempting to write a good survey paper ( or do anything , for that matter ) . The reason for that , in my opinion , is twofold : 1 ) Self-assessment . Some people are better at carrying out specific research , while others are better at synthesizing information , in general , and results of research studies , in particular . We often do not know our strengths ( and weaknesses ) , unless we try both types of research . 2 ) Self-improvement . In my opinion , it is very important to set the bar high , so that , even if we do not achieve a desired level of success for particular goal today , we will learn much more , thus , increasing our chances for succeeding in that goal and in general tomorrow . Plus , even , if we will not be have our survey papers published in a respectable outlet any time soon ( while that IMHO should be one of the goals ) , we will obtain a much better understanding of the whole field of study ( or subject domain ) as well as gain an excellent practice in academic writing , which is very valuable on its own ( " practice makes perfect " ) . Now , I will cover briefly some specific aspects that are related to your question . Firstly , we need to understand that there are no ready-to-use , step-by-step recipes for success , in general , and for writing good survey papers , in particular . Sure , there are some guidelines and templates ( which are indeed helpful ) , however , the quality of a survey paper is IMHO dependent on a variety of factors beyond those aids , such as a potential author 's knowledge and understanding of a field of study , research stream of subject domain , their abilities for writing clearly and concisely as well as constructing a mental picture of a large body of research and synthesizing from it , often creating rather complex conceptual frameworks . There exist papers that demonstrate how to do that ; in particular , for example , for the information systems discipline , see papers by Webster &amp; Watson ( 2002 ) as well as by Levy &amp; Ellis ( 2006 ) . However , again , it is one thing to see how something should be done and another to do that yourself . Another issue that we need to be aware of is that approaches for writing survey papers are quite different across disciplines and/or fields of study . Secondly , we need to understand that writing a survey paper is not the same as performing a <URL> or a <URL> ( by the way , they are often confused as similar things , which they are not , despite <URL> ) . We need to understand that meta-analysis is a statistical toolset , whereas systematic review is a type of study , which might or might not use the former . Thirdly , depending on the discipline or field of study ( as well as on the author and journal/editor ) , a survey paper might be closer in its form to a narrative review , rather than a systematic one . While systematic reviews are often regarded as more rigorous approach to covering a topic , they are not without their shortcomings . In fact , good narrative reviews might be as valuable , if not more , to science and research community , as their systematic counterparts . See <URL> for some details . References Levy , Y. , &amp; Ellis , T. J. ( 2006 ) . A systems approach to conduct an effective literature review in support of information systems research . Informing Science , 9 , 181-212 . Retrieved from <URL> Webster , J. , &amp; Watson , R. T. ( 2002 ) . Analyzing the past to prepare for the future : Writing a literature review . MIS Quarterly , 26 ( 2 ) , 13-23 . Retrieved from <URL>
I would say the two most important points are to make slides you are comfortable with and not to limit your oral presentation to reading your slides . Furthermore , if you are presenting a research paper , i.e. , where more written material is available to the audience , then the objective is usually to make people want to read your paper , instead of explaining the entire paper in 20 minutes . Some people prefer to have full slides , arguing that when members of the audience are not understanding English very well , it can help them to have both the oral presentation and the slides , especially when the speaker does not speak a perfect English . It is also helpful for members of the audience who got distracted at some point , and who can quickly read where the speaker is . Other people prefer minimal slides , arguing that having both the full text and the oral presentation might confuse the audience . In particular , whenever a slide is displayed , the audience tends to read it immediately , and during the reading , to be less receptive of any spoken words . In other words , the only " bad " presentation would be to have full slides , and to limit your presentation to reading them , because you become basically useless . However , you can have long slides , as long as you consider them as an aid for the audience who have n't followed what you said ( for whatever reason ) , and not as your script to read . You can also minimal slides , containing only the key points . In the end , you need to be comfortable with your slides , and to give a presentation like one you would like to attend .
It seems it is a junk conference , which will not bring you anything , but waits for your money ! Do n't go , it is a waste of time , you will get nothing good from it , since no one really involved at a high level in your field will come . It is not unusual for those kind of conferences to invite " anyone " as an invited speaker .
Collaboration is generally seen as a major strength in computer science and computational science , not a weakness . One of the biggest questions we ask about any faculty candidate in my department is " Who in the department/college will they work with ? " We do occasionally hire faculty that work alone in their cave and occasionally emit theorems , but they 're rare exceptions ( and even they still work with their students ) . The most important thing is to establish a reputation as a leader in your collaborations , rather than a follower . You need to establish your own research agenda , instead of just following someone else 's . More importantly , you need to be seen to have your own research agenda , instead of just following someone else 's . Your agenda must be visible in your publication record , in your recommendation letters , and ( eventually ) in your funding record . To this end , it is very important to do a few things : Limit your collaborations with more senior researchers , especially your advisor , especially between getting your PhD and getting tenure . As I 've suggested elsewhere , publishing at least one paper without your advisor before you graduate is a strong signal of independence , even if you have other coauthors . Once you have your PhD , DO NOT publish with your advisor for at least a few years . Do not always publish with the same set of coauthors . It 's fine to have two or three different groups of people that you always work with , as long as you can wind a consistent story that ties most of your work in those different groups together . ( Once you have a permanent job :) Get at least one grant as a principal investigator , not just as a co-PI . Definitely join other grants as a co-PI , too , but you must have at least one grant with your name on top to get tenure .
I would like to suggest that you read the speech <URL> on how to do great research . It 's one that I revisit every once in a while when my own scientific motivations are becoming unclear and need to be refreshed . In reading it , it 's important to keep in mind that the speech is thirty years old , and it is addressing things that happened even decades before that , so there are some jarring cultural gaps both with regards to science and with regards to the rest of society . Nevertheless , I find the central ideas to be still very relevant and valuable today . Importantly , Hamming distinguishes between things that you need to do in order to not fail and things that you need to do in order to have a real impact . These are very different , and it is important to distinguish between them . Important research is not the same as any of the " productivity metrics , " and the correlation is often a trailing indicator , not a leading indicator . For example : you say you are concerned that you are publishing only one paper per year . Step back and ask : why am I concerned about this ? You can publish lots of papers without ever doing anything really creative or important . You can have a full , tenured , and comfortable career that way . And honestly , that 's an OK choice to make . Some people go too far the other way , and strike out so deep into their own creative world that they can never publish their ideas , and they also fail to have an impact ( indeed , the most extreme of them we label cranks ) . In between is the dangerous and subversive world that Hamming describes , where you teeter back and forth on the balance between compliant conformity to metrics and egotistical creative rebellion . It does n't guarantee greatness , but it may be a fascinating ride , and it just might get you somewhere really worth going .
The only necessary component is the line " I was wondering about the status of my application " . Asking whether you can provide additional information is unlikely to help , as the question is too open-ended . It would be an excellent question to ask at the end of the interview phone call , as well as in the follow-up " thank you " email , but beyond that it appears desperate , which is typically not a good characteristic of an applicant . The comment about the unpublished manuscript is unrelated , and therefore pretty neutral . It just as well could be sent in a second email . It 's worth mentioning that inquiring about the status of your application is pretty similar to habanero sauce ; use judiciously , and very sparingly , and it 's often best not to use it at all .
You had taken an ETS-driven exam , already , and let ETS give your email address to the universities ... These kind of emails would often be received by many graduate applicants , all over the world ... Hence , you should not assume that these emails are just for you , specifically based on your situation . There are just a bunch of advertisements to catch your attention for potential apply into them . Furthermore , with due attention to the intrinsic information-based characteristics of these emails , one could assert that there is no need to take any reply into account .
The criticism is that you 're not up to date on the current state of your own field of specialty , and it is not a light matter . If the " reviewer " is some sort of committee member that can throw a wrench into your exit process , you should address the criticism . The real issue is how to address it . My assumption here is that your defense will be " typical " , with a formal presentation followed by some sort of closed session . You have a very limited amount of time before your defense , and you need to use it wisely . To start , I 'd pick the five most relevant citations to your work that you have , and search them forward to see who cited them , and read those papers -- there will probably be less than 20 . If nothing earth-shattering has happened , you will eventually add those to your reference list , and all should be good . If there is something earth shattering and pertinent to your work , you probably have more research to do at this point . How will your reviewer know you did it ? Well , for the closed session , you should have a slide in your rack entitled " review of recent literature " . In closed session , make the opportunity to say " in review , a criticism of how up to date my knowledge of the field was came up . This was accurate , and this is how I 've responded ... I think I 've covered this , and will continue to stay up to date with the literature " . To add , they may require a bit of a rewrite -- that 's actually fairly common -- but worry about that when the time comes . The strategy is to to convince them that you 've done the work , and you 're ready to do that rewrite . You do n't have the time to do it between now and your defense , and my experience is that the document is largely sealed until it 's defended anyway . You 're trying to set things up so your revised dissertation will be signed off on without a thorough going-through .
To proofread something , you need somebody who knows about the subject matter . They have to gain something too , doing the work just for " fun " does n't cut it . So your best bet is a coauthor , a colleague who is willing to swap proofreads with you , someone in the research group ( understanding what others are doing should be beneficial ) , even perhaps your advisor .
Simply contact artwork 's author ( since the artwork was n't published , the author is copyright holder , otherwise it usually would be the publisher ) , requesting permission to adapt the artwork . I suggest sending the author planned version , so that any potential issues can be assessed and addressed . ( 1 ) I 'd say Yes . The citation is usually located below or above the figure in the following form : ( Adapted from " The DeLone and McLean model of information systems success : A ten-year update . " , by DeLone and McLean , 2003 , Journal of Management Information Systems , 19 ( 4 ) , p. 24 . Copyright 2003 by M.E. Sharpe , Inc. . Adapted with permission . ) . ( 2 ) Since artwork is someone 's intellectual property artifact , protected by copyright , it is usually ( for an exception , see fair use in the next point ) required to cite the artwork ( as any other such artifact ) to properly credit its authors . The format of citation depends on the publication style you 're using ( my example above is based on APA Style ) . ( 3 ) You 're required to get permission , unless you want to risk by using the <URL> legal doctrine . ( 4 ) If the artwork is part of a figure , see example above ; otherwise , other relevant standard citation guidelines for visual elements apply , based on the publication style you use .
The main reason " Academics " would n't browse Kaggle to search for research problems is that most academics already have a field of interest , and are n't interested in doing data science research for the sake of figuring out some random problem defined by whoever decided to post the contest . Even if an algorithms researcher is looking to test out a particular technique that he just devised , he would probably first apply the technique to whatever dataset he was using originally before randomly testing it out on a dataset available on Kaggle . For what it 's worth , there are <URL> ; if anything , the data available in Kaggle competitions is probably poor relative to the richness in those data sets .
The reason why you 're publishing is because you think you have a new way of doing things that is better than the old way of doing things . Simply publishing a derivation of the new way is n't sufficient to convince people of that fact . You need to convince people that your new way is better . So yes , your derivation is a simple one to two paragraphs , but in addition to that you should spend several paragraphs explaining why your new way is better . Why was the old way used ? Why were n't the deficiencies not considered a problem until now ? ( Or if they were , how were they addressed with the old way , and why is your way better ? ) What are some of the objections that the people used to doing it the old way will raise ? Why might they not want to switch to your new way ? What do you say to those potential objections ? Are there possible use cases might your new way not be appropriate for , and if so , how do you choose between the old way and the new way ? You 'll probably also want to spend several paragraphs in an introduction , explaining how the field got to the old way , and outlining the deficiencies . You probably also want to include and example of using your new way , comparing it to the old way , illustrating why the new way is better . Basically , you think your paper is too short because you 're planning on just presenting the derivation and assuming its merits are obvious to others . They wo n't be . In all likelihood you 'd be chewed up in review - not because your paper is too short , but because you wo n't have convinced the reviewers that your new method is worthwhile . Fleshing out the paper with necessary background and discussion to presents a coherent argument for your new method can easily take you into the 1-2 page range which is the typical size of " brief communications " ( depending on field , journal , etc. ) Do n't pad your article just to increase its size , but do n't omit things which will bolster the arguments in favor of your new method . Edit : In response to comments , here 's an attempt at clarification : An academic paper is not just about presenting results . It 's also about presenting a story and an argument . How does this result change the field ? How should it change how the readers think about the topic ? I 'm guessing that the original questioner thinks their paper is only one to two paragraphs because they were anticipating presenting just the short proof/derivation of the new figure of merit . My point was that the proof itself is insufficient for a decent paper . In addition to the proof you also need to convince the reader that the new figure of merit is better than the old one - and to do so for people who may be unaware that there was anything wrong with the existing way in the first place . Doing this properly can easily extend the paper from 1-2 paragraphs into a size which is more typical for a standard journal article . Write a proper paper , and it 's no longer " too small to be publishable " .
Any abstract should cover 4 elements : context , problem , solution , and validation , in this order . The main thing you want to highlight is the contributions of your dissertation . The context and problem descriptions are essential to try to make your contributions understandable , and to convince the reader that what you have done is important . Describing the validation is important so that you convince the reader that what you have done is correct/valid .
In some cases , it could be that the instructors had a template provided by the school . When I was an instructor at a college , I was required to update a few things on the syllabus , like my name , but I was required to NOT change ANYTHING else . I had no flexibility ( in that one specific way ... I did have a whole lot of flexibility with just about every other way that I ran my particular class , which I know is quite different than what some other instructors experience ) . One thing I did have the flexibility to do was to create my own addition to the syllabus , but the college bureaucracy , which determined the official course objectives , also mandated a certain amount of information get presented unaltered . In that case , I , as the instructor , never bothered to check the copyright of each and every syllabus , because obviously I had the organization 's permission to do what the organization absolutely required of me . This is just one example : The main point being , in some cases , instructors might not be creating their syllabus entirely from scratch . Surely , the specific details vary from school to school .
As @Nate Eldredge this , how this is received is going to vary widely based on academic culture . Let me assume that this is a course at a US university , and that it is an " official " course : that is , one that students register for , receive a grade for at the end , and the instructor gets some credit for teaching . In this context , the practice would probably not be acceptable to many key people in the university . At most US universities there is a notion of credit hours : there is a positive number of " credits " a student gets for a course ( most frequently 1-4 ) and also a number of hours per week that the course meets . Now ( by widely agreed upon convention rather than cosmic truth , of course ) there is a fixed conversion factor for this : at my university , 50 minutes of class time per week = 1 credit . An instructor who only meets for one hour out of a scheduled two hours is risking the disapproval of the registrar , other departmental faculty including the head , and the students of the course . The registrar is probably going to be unhappy because it looks like the course is trying to cheat the system : if everyone decided to claim twice the number of credit hours that they actually met , it would cause absolute chaos for ( especially undergraduate ) programs . The departmental faculty are also going to be unhappy ( to say the least ) about this , on the one hand because the number of credit hours usually figures into the teaching load -- the standard departmental teaching load basically amounts to faculty teaching so-and-so many hours per week ( on average ; loads can vary from one semester to the next ) . Claiming twice as much as you 're doing is certainly not okay . And of course , most faculty want courses to be taught well , and it is hard for me to think of clearer evidence that my colleague is not doing a good job with his teaching than that he is only meeting for half the scheduled time . Finally , it is likely that the students are going to feel shortchanged ( " halfchanged " ? ) , and in light of all the stuff above , I do n't see a satisfactory rejoinder to a student who feels that way : on the contrary , I think they 're right . So what to do ? I would suggest beginning by bringing it up to a departmental faculty member . Good places to start are : ( i ) the instructor of the course , if you feel comfortable , ( ii ) the department head , ( iii ) whichever faculty member you feel closest to in the department ( e.g. your academic advisor ) . For such conversations , it is important to stay calm and factual . Be willing to proceed in several steps . Definitely indicate an awareness that there seems to be some kind of real mismatch here , and if necessary you might want to mention that university administrators like the registrar might be concerned about it as well . ( Again , I honestly think they would , and departmental faculty should know that they would . So this is more like a reality check than a threat of escalation . ) Another idea : can you ask some other faculty member ( or person in a position of authority ) to visit the course ? Anyone who shows up is certainly going to notice a two hour course ending after only one hour . On the other hand , they may well talk to the instructor before they show up , which might result in the instructor 's taking the full class time . Which is what you want , of course . If that happens once and then he goes back to halftime , then it gives you an easy opening to speak to him about what 's going on . I want to end by saying that this really is cultural . What you 're describing sounds like quite an extreme case , but there is variation between US universities and personnel at those universities on the practice of ending early . It is not unheard of for instructors and students to feel that they have done all they need to do in a certain course meeting and thus end early : they may even feel great about doing so . For me personally , over the course of almost two decades of instruction at US universities , I have moved steadily in the direction of thinking that for a three credit course , the very least I owe the students is 150 minutes a week of me in the classroom . I remember though that I taught one undergraduate course at my institution , pretty soon after I got there , and for various reasons I decided to cancel three of the 50 minute class meetings , including the last one ( excluding the final exam and review sessions for the final ) , because I was interested in presentations given by graduate students in a different course that met at the same time . The present me finds the past me 's behavior slightly outrageous ... So indeed , some variation on how this is perceived exists !
When if comes to reviewing grants and publications , from an ethical perspective , my understanding is that you have three duties : To not compromise the authors ' priority in their investigation of their ideas and their ability to capitalize on investments in preliminary work . To not compromise any intellectual property claims through premature release of information . To not expose the authors to potential embarrassment due to the harsh and mocking comments scrawled all over the place in red pen . If you personally are behaving ethically , then it really comes down to how much you trust your recycling waste stream . Is there any likelihood of a student , colleague , or other malicious agent going through the bin and pulling out the information , either intentionally or just in a search for scrap paper ? Shredding is definitely safe , but a low-priority piece of information in a big communal recycling bin with a latch is also certainly exercising a reasonable standard of caution unless you have reason to believe that you or your institution are being targeted for industrial espionage ( yes , it happens ) . Honestly , though , in most cases the information just is n't important enough to worry about . An incremental paper presenting the next step of a well-established program , a badly written manuscript on its way to a well-deserved reject , a grant proposal filled with " you should totally fund us to keep doing what we 're doing " -- these sorts of things just are n't of much interest to anybody except the authors and their close colleagues in any case , and are probably perfectly safe in the recycling bin . It 's not ideal , but it 's also very low risk . Beyond ethics , I believe that there are also sometimes legal requirements , particularly when it comes to being an external reviewed of grant applications for government agencies . In that case , the best thing to do is to ask the program manager involved .
For these journals , the copy editor is correct . " Nature ( London ) " is listed in the American Physical Society 's house style for <URL> , which makes it the standard abbreviation for APS journals , and it is also in the American Institute of Physics 's <URL> . It 's not part of a general pattern of including locations , but rather a special case . Presumably the inclusion of " London " was originally intended to avoid some long-ago ambiguity , perhaps with <URL> . It sounds like La Nature was more of a popular magazine about science than a modern scientific journal , but then again <URL> in its early history . There is no serious ambiguity about the name Nature today , but publishers are reluctant to change abbreviations , partly out of fear that if you 've been using a specific abbreviation for many decades , a careful reader may wonder whether a different abbreviation is a mistake or even refers to another journal .
Editors need books that will have an audience , a point , impact , and a connection to their " lists " . In a conversation you should be able to briefly summarize your manuscript -- and in this summary make clear its central argument / narrative , scope / evidence base , and its what is novel , important , and exciting about it . You should also summarize the audience for the manuscript , -- how it fits into the market : what other books are competing for this audience , and what distinguishes your manuscript . These summaries should be honest , and direct -- avoid both negativity and overstatement . Choose language to appeal to a smart , and critical , but not specialize reader -- avoid jargon , and if you have to use specialized terms , define them briefly , in common-sense terms . For a written prospectus , follow the same model , but expand to two pages ; and include an outline of the work , list of figures/tables , and note any special features such as data , or an accompanying website . For more details , see : Germano , From Dissertation to Book and Luey , Handbook for Academic Authors
end question
