start question
How do I use a showroom model of an iPhone 4S ?
I would suggest doing a DFU restore . You can do this by : Plug your iPhone into a computer running the latest version of <URL> . Hold the home button and the sleep/wake button for exactly 8 seconds . After this 8 seconds is up , release the sleep/wake button , but continue to hold the home button until iTunes recognizes your iPhone . Then , choose the Restore option ( this should be the only option ) and wait for iTunes to download the necessary software and restore your iPhone .
Yeah you sure can ! Find the picture in the Photos app , press the menu button in the bottom left corner and press Use as Wallpaper .
If it 's carrier locked , only the carrier it 's locked to can unlock it . If you want an unlock phone , the easiest way to get one is buying directly from Apple . These factory unlocked phones will unlock as soon as you connect them to iTunes ( and with iOS 5 possibly the first time you turn it on ) .
It 's looking like a bug . On the phone , if I have a contact that already has a first and last name entered , there is still an option to add a further first and last name field . If I add and fill in the fields , then view the contact in iCloud.com when it has synced , it shows the phonetic first and last names as already in use , with the details I entered . If I remove the additional fields , and then try to add them back using the phonetic first and last names fields which are available on the website version , then sync back they sync to the additional first/last name fields as originally shown . So , in short it looks like they forgot to include the word " phonetic " on iOS5 running on ( at least ) iPhone 4 , the fields are there , and they sync correctly , they just do not show properly .
The Absinthe tools are really easy to use - jailbreaking has gotten much easier than it used to be . However , the dev teams are hard at work on getting their tools to work with the latest iOS version/chip version combinations so it 's hit or miss with if you will actually be able to do it . Absinthe is currently only compatible with 5.0.1 and 5.1.1 ( you can see greenpois0n.com for a bit of info ) . One thing to look out for is that it can be confusing but being that you have a 4S that narrows it down a bit - you will probably need to wait until they update Absinthe to jailbreak , unless you are fortunate enough to not have updated the firmware yet . On the subject of unlocking , that 's a different story - in case you 're not sure of the difference , unlocking means being able to use different carrier SIM cards where as jailbreaking means being able to use non approved apps ( it 's a common mistake , so that 's why I mention it here ) . Unlocking can be done a few different ways ( in the US , I 'm unsure exactly the process in other countries ) . In the US , Sprint WorldWide customer service will unlock your phone if your account has been in good standing for 90 days ( I 've had 5 iPhones unlocked this way ) and as long as there are no other holds on your account . AT&amp;T will unlock a 4S that is n't on contract ( I 'm unsure if it has to be an AT&amp;T phone originally ) and I think Verizon Wireless has a similar policy ( but I do n't know for certain ) . One thing you will want to watch out for are street vendors that say they can unlock your iPhone - they ca n't , do n't waste your money . iClarified actually has a pretty good walkthrough wizard for both unlocking and jailbreaking here : <URL> ( unlocking ) and <URL> ( jailbreaking ) Hope that helps . Cheers !
Yes . I 've done this many times . The iCloud restore process deposits the sandboxed saved application data , but not the application package itself . As a second step , you can sign into the store to re-download the apps ( or connect to iTunes to transfer the apps ) so that it matches the data , but I see no reason why you ca n't get at the data using whatever tool can read the filesystem such as a jailbreak or <URL> .
You can use a tool like <URL> to map various functions to the buttons on your generic 6-button mouse .
Nothing . If your friend has n't deactivated iMessage before he sold/lost his iPhone , then Apple still thinks that he has an iPhone and is using iMessage . He has to deactivate iMessage . Here is the <URL> for this . Bun in short : He has to <URL> to do this . Or , when he/she still has his/her iPhone , then go to Settings > Messages and switch off iMessage .
Yes , those apps you mentioned are free for new devices . ie , activated on or after September 1 , 2013 . All five apps will be free if you meet the following criteria : You have to activate an iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch on or after September 1 , and The device has to be compatible with iOS 7 , and you can check our complete list of devices that can run iOS 7 , and You have to install iOS 7 , which will be available September 18 . Before then , the apps will still have a price tag on them . <URL>
There is a convenient way of making your Mac speak any selected text . Open System Preferences . Select Speech . Select the Text to Speech tab if it is not already selected . Check the box for Speak selected text when the key is pressed and provide a key combination of your choice . You can now use the key combination to speak selected text system-wide .
Try disabling sound notification permissions for all apps that you do n't need sound notifications for in your notification settings ( Settings > Notifications , scroll down to Apps and disable from there )
According to this <URL> , the problem is n't just the size . It turns out , as well as a smaller size , the Nano SIM is reportedly 15 % thinner than the Micro SIM cards . So even if users cut the Micro SIM to Nano SIm size with a knife or nano SIM cutter tool , the Sim card would still be too thick to put in the iPhone 5 .
Do you mean to Jailbreak your phone , or to unlock it so you can use it on a different network ? Unlocks currently depend on your firmware version , which you can check by going to settings >> general >> about and looking at the version number . If you can confirm then we could find the right unlock for your phone , supposing it can be unlocked .
Backups are generally portable across any and all iOS device . Could the new device be at a lower software level ? Try an over the air update to ios 5.0.1 and also be sure everything is exact in the account . xxx@mac.com is not always the same as xxx@me.com .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
You can find the option under Settings > Phone > SIM PIN .
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
If you setup your Gmail account as IMAP , it is not pushed . If you setup your Gmail account as an Exchange account , then it will be . The instructions on how to do this are found on <URL> . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
How can I remove the bluetooth setup wizard on a headless Mac Mini ?
You can disable the Bluetooth Setup Wizard by : Go to System Preferences Click Bluetooth Click Advanced Un-check ' Open Bluetooth Setup Assistant at start up when no input device is present ' . The screen should look like this ( the checkbox above the highlighted section ) : More information in this Apple KB - <URL> Also , if you are not using Bluetooth at all , you can disable it as well .
I have done this myself . First install REFIt , an utility for dual/triple booting . It adds a useful selection of OSes on startup . It also includes a EFI/MBR fixing tool which is very useful . You might need to restart 2 times . Using the Disk Utility , add 2 more partitions to your disk . Format them FAT or FAT32 . Restart your machine , and this time , assuming you have installed REFIt , instead of choosing OS X , navigate to the partition inspector ( the hard drive icon ) . Just apply the settings it suggests . Reboot your mac and put the windows 8 disc in . The setup will allow you to format the partitions . Format both of the partitions . Install to the first partition . After installing drivers ( optional ) etc on win8 , restart and install win7 to the other partition . Sometimes the Win8 will find Win7 installed and integrate the bootloader . That means that in REFIt , choosing either one of Win7/Win8 wo n't boot . Choosing Win7/Win8 from REFIt will give you the option to boot Win7 or Win8 . Hope this helps . NB : Your Windows partitions wo n't be named . REFIt wo n't know which is win7/win8 . Or you can name it when you 've installed the first Windows .
On newer OS X , you can access these advanced features from the Bluetooth icon in the menu bar . Hold shift and option ( only ) when clicking on the icon : <URL> The debug menu has most of the action oriented items you 'll need : <URL> I 've never seen resetting the module work better than powering it off , but I 'm sure theres cases where that saves a trip to the repair shop . Logging is useful , but the logs are very very large , so keep that in mind and set a reminder to turn it off tomorrow . On older OS , you needed a developer tool to systematically remove pairing records and HID devices . Bluetooth Explorer ships with Xcode 3 . ( as of today , early June 2011 - this is something available at no cost if you agree to the terms of the free developer program . It might also be bundled with Xcode 4 - available with paid download or paid mac developer program - but I ca n't vouch for that ) You can also browse the <URL> for free to learn more about bluetooth implementation . The explorer has a detailed window with many settings to automate resetting devices for testing . Here is a portion of the window showing that not only are the local mac settings cleared , it will reach out to Apple Bluetooth devices and reset their internal state as well . Since bluetooth has to start very soon in the boot process ( and is part of the setup assistant since new macs that have no accounts have to know how to set up Bluetooth keyboards and mouse out of the box ) it 's not just a simple user preference file but instead a system level preference and stored in several locations . You will be able to make your mac factory fresh to test bluetooth with the Bluetooth Explorer .
Yes , a mac mini can have multiple monitors connected to it . There are now very good USB to Video solutions on the market that will correct this limitation . Steps : Choose a good Mac compatible USB to DVI or USB to VGA adapter . There are many available from different manufacturers . Look for adapters that contain the DisplayLink chip as these are Intel-Mac compatible . Make sure you 've downloaded the latest DisplayLink Mac Drivers , like these : <URL> Install the drivers through the guided setup by first selecting the image file ( . dmg ) and opening it , accept the license agreement , select which drive to install the driver on ( Macintosh HD ) , press the install button , and restart your computer . Plug your USB to Video adapter into your computer 's USB port and attach your monitor 's cable to the adapter . You can do this while your computer is on and it will recognize the device in the same way it recognizes most plug-n-play devices . Once your computer recognizes the adapter , it should automatically extend your desktop . If you prefer that it mirror the original monitor instead , or if you want to change any of the resolution settings , go to the Systems Preferences area and select " Displays " . When setting up multiple monitors choosing two of the same size is recommended . <URL>
Alot depends on what Mac Mini you have . Early Mac Minis only had a single DVI out , later versions had mini DVI out , still newer versions had a mini DVI and a mini DisplayPort out , and the newest all metal version has a mini DisplayPort and HDMI out and comes with an HDMI to DVI adapter . Negrino was correct in saying that you could get a USB to DVI adapter but you might only have to get one of them , depending on your Mac Mini 's video out ports . If you have an early G4 or Core Solo Mini , you would have to get 2 adapters . For a little clarification , are you planning on mirroring your desktop 3 times or having 1 desktop extended over 3 monitors ? If it is the first option then you could simply get a VGA or DVI Y adapter that would mirror the image coming out of one port to 2 or more monitors .
I am sorry to say that I am unaware of any apps ( jailbroken or otherwise ) that add keyboard navigation to the iPad . According to <URL> , the following shortcuts do work : ⌘ C Copy selected text ⌘ X Cut selected text ⌘ V Paste ⌘ Z Undo ⌘ shiftZ Redo ⌘ ↑ Go to top of document ⌘ ↓ Go to bottom of document ⌘ ← Go to start of line ⌘ → Go to end of line ⌘ ⌫ Delete to end of line ⌥ ⌫ Delete previous word F1 Make screen dimmer F2 Make screen brighter F7 Skip back one song F8 Play or Pause Music F9 Skip forward one song F10 Mute Volume F11 Decrease Volume F12 Increase Volume ⏏ Show or hide onscreen keyboard
You ca n't clear this list or remove a song , unfortunately , but the list is limited to 5 songs , so adding new songs will clear previous ones . I noticed this so I said , dammit , I might as well set one song for each workday . :)
If I recall correctly - perhaps others can help flesh out any missing details - the setup wizard primarily lets you sign in with / sign up for an Apple ID to use for iCloud , it asks you to agree to the iCloud Terms of Service , and it asks about setting up Location Services . All of these can be accessed directly through the Settings app at any time . I do n't believe you will miss any important functionality by missing the wizard , especially if you were previously using your iPhone with iCloud in iOS5 .
Terminal has n't been updated for nearly a year now , so unfortunately there are some imperfections as things change in iOS . But for this case , though , I believe the escape key is actually controlled by SpringBoard , not any apps , which means Terminal ca n't capture and send the escape key to the command-line program . The <URL> has information on keyboard shortcuts , and it says that the key shortcut for escape is Ctrl + [ ( • + [ on the virtual keyboard ) . However , if my assumptions above are correct , the only way to use the real escape key would be to write a tweak to redirect the escape command to Terminal .
Command ⌘ - Shift ⇧ -3 will save a screenshot of the whole screen to your desktop . Command ⌘ - Control ⌃ - Shift ⇧ -3 copies it to your clipboard . ⌘ - ⇧ -4 lets you drag to take a shot of a portion of the screen , or press Space to select a specific window . Add Control ⌃ to the mix to copy to to the clipboard . You can view and change these in the Keyboard pane of System Preferences , under the Keyboard Shortcuts tab :
You can daisy chain up to 6 Thunderbolt devices from a single port , so you can connect the display via an adapter to that without any problems .
Turn off bluetooth on the phone . Unpair the phone from the truck . When you pair your device , the truck is seen as a remote control in addition to all the other functions so if the truck wants to play , the phone is right to start playing . There is no switch to disable one remote some of the time in iOS or to edit the capabilities of a paired device . You might need to go to the ford dealer and see if they have a firmware update for your truck :-) Seriously - they either need to disable or let you better control the situation where the " remote " asks the phone to play music .
Sure . Just make sure it is in a secure position so it does n't fall over . Apple actually has a support page on this : <URL>
See <URL> in Apple 's Knowledge Base : Bluetooth car kit functionality is limited to audio output . Additional car kit features are not supported on iPad . The <URL> . As you can see , the first-generation iPad does n't support the Hands-Free Profile ( HFP 1.5 ) , but the iPad 2 and the third-generation iPad do , although the Phone Book Access Profile ( PBAP ) still is n't supported . There 's also <URL> where a lot of people ca n't seem to get a bluetooth headset working with their iPad . As user Dave Lucente says : The iPad is not a phone , so it should not be a surprise that cell phone head sets will not work with it .
The Mac will boot with or without a mouse and keyboard , and you should see something on the monitor either way . You do not need to use Apple mice and keyboards . So , the problem has to be either the monitor or the Mac Mini . You can look at the <URL> to see if the Mini is running . If it is steady white , the computer is on . If it is pulsing , the computer is sleeping . If it is off , the computer is off . If the computer is on but nothing is coming up on the monitor : Check all connections . Try with a different monitor , if possible . Make sure the correct input is selected on the monitor . If the computer wo n't turn on : Check all connections . Make sure it 's plugged in . Make sure you 've pressed the power button all the way , without holding it down too long . If you ca n't get it to turn on at all , take it back to the people who sold it to you and get your money back ; they sold you a broken machine .
Not today . This is similar to how iBooks also can not ( currently ) be viewed on a Mac . ( and I do n't have any clue if this will ever happen , it just seems like something that could happen )
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
I believe that <URL> is exactly what you are looking for . The only downside is that Rubbernet can not distinguish between LAN traffic and WAN traffic . It sounds like you are looking at one computer , so that should n't be an issue . There is a demo available on their website , or you can buy it from the <URL> for US$ 25 , which seems to be a pretty good deal since they want $ 29.99 ( about US$ 42 ) for a single user copy or $ 49.99 ( almost $ 69 ) for a " family pack " if you buy through their website . ( Hat tip to <URL> for bringing it to my attention a few months ago . ) If you want something cheaper , <URL> might suit you too .
You can delete the stocks app from your phone on iOS 10 - and that removes it from the watch . There is n't a way to have it on the phone but not on the watch . There were currently no workarounds , jailbreaks or non-obvious ways hide and minimize the stocks app on the Apple Watch apps display on iOS 9 and associated watch OS . The rest of this answer applies if you can not upgrade to iOS 10 and watchOS 3 . Consider making a long tail arrangement of apps placing the ones you do n't want to see to the end of the line . In practice , you 'll see the few apps centered around the clock face central point of the graph .
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
end question
start question
Is there a . eml email file viewer that can also save attachments ?
MailRaider Pro for Mac OS X does just what I need in terms of being able to open . eml files WITHOUT the need to setup a dummy account or whatever . It just works - I can just open it . I have bought it , it works on El Capitan . official site : <URL> on iTunes : <URL> It also says it handles attachments , but I have n't tried that yet .
You will have to jailbreak your iPhone to password-protect the Mail app . Sorry , there 's no other way . :-) I ran across <URL> , which has three apps for password protecting iOS apps . Lockdown Pro FolderLock Locktopus All are paid apps . <URL> mentions an app called iAppLocker . It is free . Hope this helps you !
Look at stop motion apps , like <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and so on . You can get a variety of apps if you search for " stop motion " in the app store .
The format menu has a toggle to switch things for you . Pressing shift + command + T will toggle the document to plain text mode . You can also set the default format in the preference pane for the app .
I did not test this myself , as I do not have a Bluetooth keyboard , but I 've seen a few article stating that to send an email you could type CMD - Shift - D.
Yes , application is called <URL> , and the technology behind it is darn impressive :) Have a look at the <URL> . But it only works for translations from english to spanish ( and vice-versa ) . Supposedly more languages to come but no progress since it launched .
Press the home button and the sleep button simultaneously . This will save a picture of the current iPhone screen to the " Photos " application . From there , you can either email it to anyone you want or sync it to your computer .
TomTom calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it . Garmin calls this feature <URL> , but their <URL> does n't support it either . The only app I found that supports this feature is <URL> ( $ 1 , or free <URL> ) . Basically you upload an image to their website , then you use this application to view the map with your location shown on it . From the app description : Once you 've uploaded your map to the website , use this app to view the map on your iPhone . Even better , go to the location the map represents , and view it there . You 'll be amazed when you see your position correctly shown on the map , no matter how much the map is stretched or squashed compared to the geographic space it represents . You wo n't need a data connection to view maps -- great if you 're going abroad .
To illustrate the point made in the comments , just drag the icon ( or the inlined image ) from the mail body to wherever you want :
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
GMail keeps no such logs , and neither does Mail.app Unfortunately , you 're kind of stuck searching for the messages yourself . If you read a lot of text-based mail , and want a " buffer " of sorts to prevent yourself from doing this in the future , a command line mail client like <URL> can be configured to only synchronize changes like message flags/folders on a configured interval , rather than immediately on the remote side . Homebrew has a package for it :
<URL> [ iTunes link ] from <URL> . According to <URL> , it integrates with Google Docs and lets you use Google Docs OCR to convert scans into editable text files on your Google account .
I see the mostly likely cause of this being the possibility that your default sending address is set to your email address . I say this because it appears that you initiated the conversation . You can check ( and change ) this by going to Settings.app - > Messages - > Send &amp; Receive . Under " Start new conversations from : " , observe whether your email address or phone number is selected . If your email address is selected , this would be an easy explanation as to why this happened . Otherwise , as far as I know , ( and I have just went over this to verify ) , it is impossible to extract the email address that is associated with an iMessage phone number from just a regular iMessage " text " .
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
While <URL> is a bit old , it still works This gives you a decent GUI interface to control default apps
Unfortunately , there is no way to do this in Apple Mail . It only works for messages which you are replying to ( they automatically use the same outgoing address which received the original message ) . There is no hook in AppleScript , nor an option in Automator by which to make this happen . If it were possible , as of right now , it would still require a third-party plugin , which I have not been able to find either . So unfortunately , the answer is now . Note : Also , if you select the inbox of the account from which you want to send the message , then compose , Mail will automatically use that account 's email address for sending , unless you change it . Not quite as helpful as what you were hoping for , but at least something worth considering . Good luck and happy mailing !
I 'm using <URL> on my Mac and iPhone for pretty much all my note-taking . It automatically syncs notes between computers/devices , so might not be for you if you only want local notes . I find it 's really convenient for accessing my notes everywhere , though . It does n't look like big sticky notes , instead you get a list view of your notes with a preview , from which you can open the entire note . I find it really pretty , but it might not be the aestethic you 're after . Edit : Forgot to mention that I use the <URL> widget on my Macs . There are other options as well , but they mainly come as stand-alone programs .
Andrew Choi 's <URL> does this , although it is not straightforward to change the style . It looks like this : The <URL> and a <URL> are available .
I 've done some more research and found out that at least JDiskReport has this functionality .
end question
start question
Make a Boot Camp partition totally impenetrable ?
If your Mac OS partition is <URL> , it will be unreadable when you are booted to Windows . At that point , the only thing malware could do to this partition would be to wipe or delete it .
Newstand content is simply an iOS Application that makes use of the <URL> , so you might start with <URL> and a one year membership to the <URL> . When you enroll in the latter , you will learn what things can be discussed and asked about publicly and which parts of the program are covered by an Non-Disclosure Agreement ( NDA ) . You do n't need the paid membership to download Xcode and start learning and crafting your first Newsstand app , but you do get access to many training videos , a <URL> on NDA topics . The ability to sign and install apps you develop on some test devices to work on development before they are ready for sale on the App Store is also critical for proper QA . There are also many other paid options to developer Newsstand apps , but I would start with free and training like the dedicated page for developers to learn Newstand : <URL>
Apple do n't make a modem , but depending on your internet/cable/fiber provider , you may be able to encourage them to give you one for free . I have Virgin Media in the UK and new customers receive a new Super Hub free ( which can easily be configured to be a slave modem , you just turn the wireless off ) . The same is true of most of the free ' hubs ' provided by networks these days .
Yes ! As the disk is the correct format , it will show in the disk list in the installer ( click Show All Disks ) . You can install any version of OS X on a partition of the correct format , regardless of where the partition is located . The OS X installer does n't partition the disk for you though ; do this first in Disk Utility .
Boot Camp Assistant.app - among other apps in the Utilities folder - is protected by System Integrity Protection as outlined <URL> . By disabling SIP you will be able to <URL> . So boot to Recovery Mode by pressing cmdR while booting . Open Terminal.app ( menubar - > Utilites - > Terminal ) Enter Reboot your Mac Edit the file / Applications/Utilities/Boot Camp Assistant.app / Contents/Info . plist Reboot again to Recovery Mode and enable SIP again : Reboot your Mac You should also be able to edit the file directly after booting to Recovery Mode without disabling SIP : You 'd have to make notes how and what to add though because you may have no real internet access . Even if you can create a USB Windows installer , this does not necessarily mean that you can boot your Mac to Windows using this flash drive .
Ok thanks for your help , but I solved the problem on my way , here 's what I 've done : Backup everything important to an external Harddrive Inserted the Mac Installation Disc and ruined there the disc utility app . I removed everything from my HD and it was GUID-Partioned . Now I just installed Mac Os X 10.6.2 and updated to 10.6.8 Now I could run the installer of Mac Os X Lion without any problems and as a benefit of the whole thing , I started with a brand new Mac Os X Installation , without any trash in the file system .
Here 's what worked for me : use to find the small Microsoft Reserved partition you 're trying to delete but disk utility ( or the command-line equivalent ) wo n't allow . Let 's say it 's on disk 99 partition 400 ( mine was on disk 0 partition 4 ) The above reformats the partition to journaled HFS + and once you 've done that you can just simply delete it ( and then resize etc. as you wish ) . Note : I 've used / dev/disk99s400 because that should not ever work , you have to replace those with the right disk and partition . WARNING : Destructive , high risk . ALWAYS do a full back up first before screwing with partitions . ALWAYS .
The answer is No . Sorry . I have done this already . Here is the problem . VirtualBox and your Apple use different hardware . If you try to switch between the hardware you are going to drive windows insane . If you first install Windows using VirtualBox 's virtual hardware and a physical disk partition , then switch to Apple 's physical hardware with the same physical disk partition then you have to run Microsoft 's " System Preparation Tool " . This tool is meant to be run once , not repeatedly . See the procedure at <URL> The other problem would be now are you going to activate the software for both machines . Are you going to active while running under VirtualBox or BootCamp ? When you boot between the physical Apple hardware and the virtual VirtualBox hardware , the Windows operating system is going to detect the change . For example , the two machines do not share the same MBR . Each MBR will have a different signature . Windows stores this signature in its boot partition and compares the value with the MBR when booting .
<URL> This is a sample project showing how to make something like a dynamic background but I think you need to jailbreak your phone to make use of it .
There may be other ways to do this , but a simple way would be to create your own homepage , which could look anyway you like . Then , just set the Homepage in Safari to point at that file . Make a file called " home.html " with these contents : Open that file with Safari , and use the preferences dialog to set the homepage to the current page . Also set new tabs and windows to start on your homepage .
The answer appears to be no . The Snow Leopard installer refuses to install over a newer version of Mac OS . Solution was to use Snow Leopard DVD to revert to pre-Lion state . The good news is that there are no issues with Boot Camp as such , only with finding the Mac OS partition from the Windows Boot Camp control panel . It 's very difficult to find the Boot Camp software for Windows on Apple 's site ( legendary ease of use ) so it helps to keep that software around for a re-install . After the Boot Camp re-install on Windows everything worked fine . Snow Leopard 's System Preferences just finds the Windows partition .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
Updating from OS X to Yosemite on Macbook air seems to work OK if you have one Mac partition and one Windows/Bootcamp partition . But ... If you have two windows partitions then the update will cause problems , the new partition setup created by Yosemite update was : One very small partition ( ~ < 200MB ) , probably booting data One Mac partition One Mac recovery tools partition ( ~ 600MB ) One Bootcamp/windows partition The MBR has space for 4 partitions ( ?! ) ; so if you had two windows partitions , the second one ( Fat32 ) might not be visible . In my case Mac could still see it and browse files , but windows 7 seen it as unpartitioned space . I booted with an USB stick ( Minitool Partition wizard free ) , deleted Mac " recovery " partition ( to make room on MBR ) , created that 2nd windows partition from scratch . Did that without changing starting point of Bootcamp partition , otherwise windows might not boot . You are losing the ability to boot into Mac recovery tools . But in worst case scenario you can delete all partitions and boot from network to re-install Mac from scratch . I could n't find a better solution to have two Windows partitions , tried re-installing and re-partitioning around 6 times , windows would fail to boot whenever I touched the bootcamp partition . The tool should also work to re-size the bootcamp patition , as long as starting point remains unchanged .
And the correct answer is : No . Encryption only affects the OS X volume . Booting into Boot Camp , the necessary password prompt to allow decryption is bypassed entirely . The volume becomes an opaque blob to anything but a running OS X system .
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
As I state above and based on my own tests , running Windows in a virtual hard drive is faster than doing it from the Boot Camp partition .
Is this on your Macbook Pro ? If so the disks should work both legally and pragmatically . You would n't need to use bootcamp though , since bootcamp is designed jsut for windows . Nevertheless its pretty easy . Here are the basic steps I would follow : Insert your install DVD . Shutdown your computer . Start your computer pressing the C key to boot from the DVD . Once in the instalation assistant , go to Disk Utility under Utilities > Disk Utility . Select your disk . Select the Partition tab and click on the " + " to add a new one . Call it whatever you please and add at least 10GB of disk space ( enough to install Snow Leopard ) and make sure its in Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) . Apply the settings . Go through the installer like you normally would , though when it asks you were to install tell it you want to Snow Leopard to be on your new partition . This should let you boot on Snow Leopard by pressing the opt/alt key just like when you boot Windows . Hope it helps ! Any other thing you need fear not comment .
One option is to boot from your Mac OS X Install CD and edit the partitions using the Disk Utility ( found in the menu ) . This can be very handy for removing partitions that just wo n't die .
I solved this using Mac Os X Lion install DVD . Boot your Mac from Mac Os X Lion install DVD by holding Option key at startup When a window appears go to menu and find Terminal and run it From inside terminal you can copy any files ( I used commands : df , ls , cd , mv ) This works for Macbook Pro late 2011 but will not work for 2012 and later models because Apple prevented them from being able to boot from install DVD or USB . Thus all recovery tools like DiskWarrior Boot DVD , Drive Genius and similar will not work on 2012 and later macs . The other option is to ask a friend with Mac to make a Recovery USB using <URL> and make a DMG file from it using Disk Utility and send you over internet . Then use the <URL> application under Windows and burn DMG on your USB stick . You will be able to boot from this USB stick into Recovery Mode and from there you can run Terminal to copy \ move files or do whatever you need . Apple should distribute some bootable ISO or DMG image which can be downloaded from their website and burned on disk or USB and used to recover Mac offline .
If it just sits at the grey screen and the option boot or C boot does n't work , it is 98 % probable that your hard drive or hard drive cable have failed . Time to head to your local apple store .
end question
start question
Is it possible to copy ' rich text ' formatting on iPhone ?
Text is copied in rich form in iOS 3 + . You can try it by copying some text in Safari and pasting it to Mail . But pasted text format will depend of the app . For example , the SimpleNote app only paste in plain text format , since the service does n't not support image and text styling . There is no native way to see the copied text in HTML form . You 'll have to find an app to do that .
Absolutely ! You 'll need a program to rip the Blu-Rays to your computer , then you 'll need a program to convert them to a format that your iPad can understand ( like <URL> ) . <URL> .
No , if it was not originally purchased/downloaded from the Apple App Store , you will not find it in the Purchased section . Usually , enterprise apps are distributed from that company 's ' app store ' only . If they are deleted from your iOS device , you can revisit the company app store and re-download the app again . It 's up to that company if they want to have a Purchased tab or some other way of seeing previously downloaded apps .
Zeroing out a brand new disk is , for the average user , a waste of your time . Writing all those zeros to every single block on the disk is time consuming ( and yes , your zero-out time seems to be in the ball park even for USB 3 ) and has no real benefit . The disk , if new , and freshly HFS + formatted is ready to go without any additional work . Zeroing out can help the security-paranoid erase latent data from the platters ( though , zeroing is n't sufficient to meet US Government regulations for sanitizing media see <URL> for more details ) . And it can help find and mark bad sectors before you start relying on the media for day to day use . I 'll contend that , except for ultra rare cases where new media is heavily damaged on arrival , that modern methods for finding and marking bad sectors in situ are good enough to make pre-finding them before serious use unnecessary in this day and age .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
You can not export the wallpaper , depending on the pattern ( if it were repetitive ) it would be possible to take screen shots and after emailing these to your self you could edit in Photoshop ( other editing software is available ) You would need to take one shot of a page in iOS with only one app , and then if it is a repeatable patern you can edit out or clone out the app on the screen and the apps at the bottom . Alternatively you can or tap and hold an app to get to wiggle mode , and go to the far right to get a " clean " page , then screenshot this . Not great but that is the only way , I 'm afraid .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
Use <URL> worked OK for me except for Firefox where it duplicated the book marks each time I used it . Althougn now in Mavericks or because of a later version of Firefox it works
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
The easier way to do this is with <URL> . For example : supports options to supply a user name ( -- user = user ) and password ( -- password = password ) if anonymous FTP access is n't available . And a -- quiet mode so it 's - friendly and does n't fill up your local inbox without messages for successful downloads .
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
FileMerge 2.8 , which ships with Xcode 5.0.1 links to frameworks that are located inside of the Xcode.app bundle . Shared libraries that are used by FileMerge can be displayed by performing the command : The output of this command indicates that FileMerge needs to use the DevToolsInterface , DevToolsCore , and DevToolsFoundation frameworks . : The prefix indicates that <URL> to search for frameworks that are being referenced . Specifically , FileMerge contains in its run path list . When located inside of the Xcode.app bundle , those frameworks are right where FileMerge expects them to be . However , if you copy FileMerge out of the Xcode.app bundle , FileMerge will crash upon launch . This occurs because the referenced frameworks ( referenced above ) are not in the run path list , which causes to exit with an error of . The reason it can not find those referenced frameworks is that a folder at the relative path does not exist , and the frameworks do not exist in any other folders listed in the run path . To use FileMerge without the Xcode app installed , you have a couple of options : Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to one of the folders referenced in the run path list ( or are probably a couple of the best choices ) . Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to be at relative to the FileMerge app ( e.g. , if FileMerge is at , copy the folder to Edit The above answer allows FileMerge to launch , but the application will terminate when you actually attempt to compare files . Apparently the application is looking for platform information at the path . This means that it is necessary to copy from to ( relative to FileMerge.app ) . Here are some steps that could be used to copy FileMerge to a folder at :
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
Yes , this is possible for Apps and music . For obvious reasons , you can only gift Apps that cost money . Unfortunately this is not possible with books from the iBook store . From your Mac Navigate to the App Store in iTunes Find the app you want to gift Click the little down arrow next to the " Buy App " button A menu will appear , and one of the options is " Gift This App " From your iDevice Open the App Store app Find the app you want to gift Scroll to underneath the the screenshots Tap the " Gift This App " button
You can create an <URL> directly on the iPhone that acts like a queue . Alternatively you could <URL> in iTunes then import that to the iPhone by dragging the list to the phone icon . Any missing tracks would be imported .
Sorry , but no . As of iOS 5 , there 's no method for the user to adjust font/interface sizes unless the app gives you a specific control for it . iOS Mail does have a setting for minimum font size , but it only applies to the body of the message , not the message lists .
Check out the command . You can get detailed information about its use by reading its man entry An in-depth article on the command is <URL> .
Customize Preview ( easy ) Have you looked under Preview preferences ? You can set Initial Document Scale to 100 % or larger if you want . You might need to adjust the option below that , defining size equal to screen or print sizes . Use a better PDF viewer If Preview.app ca n't do what you want , look into Skim.app Skim has an option to open PDFs as Default , Maximized , or Fit . One of these ought to improve . Customize Preview ( complex ) If you want all three points requested above and want them in Preview.app , I would do the following : Turn on Universal Access so you can script applications via the GUI Make a new app in Automator that accepts PDFs . Replace Preview with this ( open with this by default , put it in your dock so you can drag-and-drop onto it , etc. ) The new app should simply take the input PDF and pass it to Preview , so it displays there The new app should then use Universal Access commands to Maximize the window Set to " Single Continuous Page " Select the mouse tool you want .
end question
start question
Can I update iOS on a locked phone ?
Update : I have discussed this with someone who has specifically tried this . I now understand what happens here . The answer is no , with one notable exception . Having looked through Apple 's documentation , I have found conflicting information . First , the <URL> describes going into Device Firmware Upgrade ( DFU ) mode and Recovery mode . It states that from either mode , the device must be restored to factory default settings . However , that is in direct conflict with the link it provides to recovery mode . The <URL> puts you on <URL> . On this page it states that if you choose the Update option , iTunes will try to reinstall iOS without erasing your data . I now know this line to be a simplification . In this scenario , when iTunes reinstalls iOS , it 's only option is to restore the iPhone to factory default settings . If you have logged into your phone but have n't rebooted it , and you have previously synced it via iTunes , you can backup the contents using the same computer . So in this case iTunes will backup the contents , reinstall iOS with a restore to factory default settings , then restore the contents from the backup . Once the iPhone is rebooted , you can only restore to factory default settings . You can restore the contents of a previously made backup , but you can not backup the data from the phone .
1 ) As you clarified in the comments , you have used your GMail account for instant messaging using Adium . My guess would be that Adium took your OS X account picture ( or you assigned it manually ) and synchronized it with Google . It should be easy to verify this by changing your contact picture in Adium . I ca n`t test it right now , but will try later and also try to come up with a solution to turn of the synchronization . 2 ) <URL> But I do n't think that OS X has anything to do with it , since I believe that the updating of your GMail avatar was done by Adium .
Siri makes use of NLP ( Natural Language Processing ) - NLP computing takes significant resources and while the iPhone may be powerful enough to process them , it 's likely to drain the battery . For this reason , Siri application records your commands on your phone &amp; sends it off the servers for processing . The results are returned back to the phone &amp; does the commands . So to answer , yes , it 's part-phone , part-Internet service &amp; it does send data to Apple 's servers .
From the <URL> page : How do I disable the update checker in 1.2.2 and below ? The update checker in Growl 1.2.2 and below will run automatically every 24 hours . The update checker in 1.2.2 admittedly is not great , and is one of the reasons that Growl is now in the App Store . For those who wish to continue to run Growl 1.2.2 , you can do so but will likely benefit from disabling the update checker . To disable the update checker , follow these steps : - Open System Preferences - Click on Growl - Click on the About tab at the top - Please make sure that you are using 1.2.2 . If you are not , please update to 1.2.2 available <URL> - Uncheck " Check for updates automatically " - Close System Preferences , you are done Since the older version is going to become less compatible over time I would honestly suggest just paying the $ 4 and upgrading to the latest version that integrates all Growl notifications into message centre , even for apps that do n't support message centre .
Yes - triggering a location update does use more battery than if the phone were simply idle and chatting from time to time with cell towers to be ready to receive a notification , email or phone call . No - the high power location drain when you have a GPS mapping program running in the foreground is n't what happens when you use the web site to request one location update . As long as you are not constantly sending a ping noise or managing to hammer the find my phone interface with a non-stop stream of requests , the phone will be quite efficient with the screen off , a quick location update and then it will go back to idle power and consume no more power than if it were sitting in your pocket . Think of the function as this : You log into find my phone ( web or another iOS device ) and the service looks up all your devices and sends one refresh to each . The device gets a notification over either of the connections it always attempts to keep open to Apple via both Wi-Fi and cellular data channels . Apple says - " hey - figure out where you are and then report back " Your phone does it 's location dance as best it can with available GPS , cell tower , and Wi-Fi and then tells Apple where it thinks it might be ( and how accurate a fix it thinks it has achieved ) . Apple says thanks and your phone goes back to being idle ( presumably powering down GPS once not recently requested ) . You then see that location update on your display . Apple caches the data , so you will see the last known location for quite a while before it goes to " location unknown " over a period of hours and the last fix becomes stale .
This is kind of a yes/no question . No , most people ca n't or wo n't be bothered to turn them off . Yes - you can turn off all network access or block the update servers . The iOS 9 itself does not have a toggle you can flip and the software is designed to let you know the update is available . I 'll leave my opinion aside whether Apple designed this correctly , but from a security standpoint . If you are on iOS 9 - upgrading to patch levels does n't break existing apps and solves known security , performance , energy efficiency and bug issues , so declining a 9.0.x or 9.x update is far harder to justify than just not upgrading to 9.0 in the first place . The best technical way to block iOS 9 updates is hosted on JAMF Nation discussions : <URL> You 'll want to have control over your network , have an MDM and the energy to configure your devices to avoid updates . Basically , preventing this is a short term battle and I know it makes sense to try it from time to time or if your organization needs to buy time - but it 's a pain since the design is to push updates on each device that connects to the internet .
As far as I am aware there is no reference to wildcard characters in vcard . If Mac OS or iOS supported such feature it would not be supported by other devices . But you can add the 100 phone numbers by hand . I would recommend exporting the contact as a vcd file then add all the numbers by hand . Copy paste will be faster than writing them one by one in the Contacts app : And import it back .
If you 're running a system prior to OS X 10.9 , you might consider updating it . Upgrading Apple 's iApps from the 2011 versions to the 2013 versions requires either Mavericks ( for version 10.0.5 ) or Yosemite ( v10 .0.6 ) . The boilerplate message from the App Store has misled a good number of people . If , on the other hand , you are using 10.9 or 10.10 , first check the " Purchases " page of the App Store ( Fourth icon across on the top of the toolbar ) to see if the iApps are available for download . These versions replace -- not upgrade -- pre-installed iApps with bundles which tie them to a combination of your Apple ID and your computer 's hardware ID . If such is n't the case , contact <URL> , and explain your situation . You are entitled to an upgrade .
I believe this is associated with automatic downloads and/or iTunes Match . See <URL> Once a device or computer is associated with your Apple ID , you can not associate that device or computer with another Apple ID for 90 days . This article makes it sound like you can only sign in with a different account every 90 days , but this does n't seem to be the case in my experience . I regularly sign into different accounts on our family 's iPad when downloading apps and this has never been a problem . I 've only gotten warnings regarding this 90-day lockout when enabling iTunes Match . The article also notes that : Note : Removing a device from your Apple ID does not override the 90 day timer . The timer must complete 90 days from the day the device was associated before it can be associated to another Apple ID . It looks like you 'll have to contact Apple if you want to have the device reset .
It seems to be possible to <URL> , but through your iPhone or iPad it appears not to be possible . You can read more on <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> parental controls at the included links and in <URL> . I hope that this information helps , and let me know if you have any further questions .
There are a number of methods an app can use to uniquely identify a device or user . Transitory ( persistent whilst app is installed ) Unique identifier generated by the app and saved in a property list or other equivalent storage in the app sandbox 's Library or Documents folder . Hashed login or equivalent to determine user . CFUUID ( <URL> ) identifierForVendor ( <URL> ) Permanent MAC address of device ( not recommended by Apple for these purposes ) . Advertising Identifier ( can be reset in Settings ; <URL> ) . Depreciated UDID ( <URL> )
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
To avoid rendering your device unusable due to a bad upgrade file , iOS does some verification of the download before installing ( likely some type of checksum to ensure the download was n't corrupted and it 's for the right device , etc. ) . Given that your install process fails during the verification process , it 's likely that you either got a bad download ( possible , although it should try to re-download if that 's the case ) , or the authentication and verification servers that the installer needs to check against are having some problems ( not unlikely , given the load they 've had since iOS 6 came out ) . Best advice is to just wait it out and try later . However if you 're impatient , you can directly download the update to your computer and update via iTunes ( although if the servers are experiencing issues , it might affect this method as well ) . Steps for a direct update Go to <URL> and download the proper file for your device . With your device connected in iTunes , open the device page , hold down option ( shift on Windows ) and click the Update button . An Open File dialog should appear . Browse to the file you downloaded in step 1 and open it . Your software update should begin normally .
Your sending a lock does n't change the settings you had on the phone prior to losing it . If messages were showing on the screen - they will still show . If not , they will not . If you have find my phone enabled and are concerned about changing this , you could send a remote erase ( and then lose all ability to track it again ) and have it resort to the default behavior . I 'm hesitant to erase my phone now to test , but am fairly certain the default is towards privacy and further messages would not be displayed on the lock screen when the phone reboots or is powered on again .
The file could simply still be open by something . Use to see which process is hogging it , if any . Otherwise should get rid of it If that did n't work , try removing all the flags it 's complaining about first :
Beware of legal issues . You can but you 'll need to jailbreak , use extra hardware ( plug a mic into the headphone jack ) , or use 3rd party SIP software . For example , Google Voice has an iPhone app , and Google Voice supports call recording . Google Voice does announce to both parties that it is recording the call .
I 've just checked the <URL> , and there is an option to completely disable the ability to upgrade iOS .
If this iPhone model has a SIM card , try to put it to another phone/iPhone and try to disable SIM Pin . On iPhone : Settings - > Phone - > SIM PIN - > disable Then put this SIM again to your friend 's iPhone and reboot it . After restart , iPhone should automatically log in to cellular network and you should be able to disable the lost mode using iCloud page . Maybe your friend should consider using two factor authentication to enable additional protection to iCloud account : <URL>
It worked fine . In fact I updated to 10.10 successfully in safe boot .
I think not , only by using a hardware keyboard or via copy/paste from another doc or an app like Unicode Maps . You might be able to make a custom layout as well with Unicode Maps . Also have a look at Keyman .
end question
start question
Is it possible to change the order of the tabs shown in the Dictionary ?
Yes , just go to the Preferences for the Dictionary app . There 's a list there of all the possible dictionaries , which you can then drag to be in any order you like .
On a clean install , the core Mac OS X apps are originally ordered alphabetically . Newly installed apps will be appended at the back on an empty spot starting with page 2 ( they will never be appended on page 1 , even if there is room available , but you can ofcourse drag them there ) . Apps can then be arranged manually , and they should remain in the order you sort them . However , I have noticed quite some buggy behaviors , mainly apps changing position after a reboot , and MAS updates pushing apps of the page . I hope these will get ironed out in a coming update .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
As far as I know , this is not possible . iPad is not made to be a multi-user device . I am in a similar situation myself as I share the iPad with my wife but have n't yet fixed it . Some alternatives : Set a different account as default account in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars . It could even be a dummy account . At least it means email will not be sent accidentally from your address . In Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars > [ Your email account ] , you can turn off Mail temporarily . It does not provide any security though , anyone can just turn it on again . If you want to guarantee security , you need to use something like Gmail in Safari and login and logout every time .
A workaround is to make an alias of the app , drag the alias to Dock and then change the icon for the alias ie . not for the actual app . Downside is that you get a small alias -- arrow added to the lower -- left corner to the icon . Make an alias Drag the alias to the Dock Change the icon like you would for any Finder item . In the following screenshot we have copied the icon of Chess app and pasted it to the newly -- made alias of Automator . ( NB , make sure you first copy the icon and then paste it ; the screenshot accidentally is showing the opposite way . )
I look at the speech ( and thought ) bubble feature in Preview as a nice little extra that provides basic functionality . Unfortunately , at least as of 10.7.3 Lion , text justification is n't an option . If your needs ( or wants ) go beyond the basics you may be interested in comic creation software like Plasq 's <URL> .
As far as I know , there would be no way for scripts to directly access the data in a Bento database , so you would need to manually export that data every time you need to update the website . If you do n't have too many sets of data , or if the site does n't need to be updated too frequently , this might work well for you . Also , Bento is fairly limited when it comes to building relational databases . It can handle flat databases and very simple relationships , but lacks the ability to set up complex relationships between tables . If you do n't need complex relationships , and manually exporting your data is acceptable , then Bento would be a viable option that 's relatively inexpensive and fairly easy to learn and use . On the other hand , FileMaker Pro is very scriptable , allowing for almost complete control through both its own internal scripting language as well as through AppleScript . It also handles much more complex relationships . Of course , this advanced feature set also comes with a higher learning curve ( and price tag ) . However , FileMaker does have a large and active community of users that are very helpful , and there are plenty of tutorials and sample databases to help get you up to speed . While FileMaker does have built-in web publishing , there is a limit of 5 concurrent users unless you get FileMaker Server , or host your database on a 3rd party FileMaker hosting service .
Yeah , sure . Use Wraparound ( I have n't tried it , but it should do what you 're asking ) . Download it here : <URL> .
No , this option does n't exist . ( Perhaps because it would be to some extent a security risk . ) You might remain signed in for a short period of time , but you ca n't automatically log yourself in .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
The link is broken - please look at some upvoted answers below as well Assuming you are talking about the reference dictionary for looking up the meanings of words ( NOT spellchecking/autocorrection ) , you can not modify that on an iOS device . But in OS X you can add other modules . This page provides some info : <URL>
At one time or another I have deleted a whole bunch of the standard issue programs that I knew I would n't use . I prefer not to have them wasting my space , however little it may be . Also , I use a Mac Mini as a media centre , changing the standard hdd for an ssd , so space is at a premium . Appcleaner is one app that I have used for several years to tidy stuff up . Never had a single issue with deleting Stickies , Notes , Bootcamp Assistant , Audio Midi Setup , RAID , Podcast , etc , etc. . Appcleaner preferences should be set up to delete " protected " apps and then will delete the app and all the other files ( plists , etc. ) that go with it . Another app , CleanMyMac , does the same , but will also do a more general clearout of caches , etc. . Both recommended ... Good luck !
No . These apps would then also accessible from the lock screen which would open a whole can of worms about security . Even the standard Apple apps do have problems with that sometimes , it would be even worse with 3rd party apps .
Adding dictionaries is possible . Finding the one you want may not be . See <URL> For info on creating dictionaries for dictionary.app , see <URL> <URL>
Use <URL> , a free open source app that has a bunch of handy window management shortcuts . While it does n't change the default behavior of the green button , it makes it superfluous for me to do so as I can do everything using keyboard shortcuts without using the mouse . For full screen , press : cmd + option + F It also has a bunch of options for 1/2 screen , 1/3 screen , top half , bottom half , etc. .
I 'm not an expert on OS X , but it seems that if you use the red ' x ' to close the window , the application itself is not closed , only that window of the application . If you were to use Command + Q or quit via the application menu , the pins do save as expected .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
You can do so in System Preferences . Open the Bluetooth panel , select your Magic Mouse and click the cog wheel at the bottom to select " Rename " from the context menu .
You have to migrate all your code to Swift 1.2 if you 're using Xcode 6.3 . If you go to Edit > Convert > To Latest Swift Syntax , it will help find many of the changes . However , there 's still a lot of manual editing to do . In the long run , it will serve you better to keep your Swift code at the latest version so that future migrations are easier and so that you can take advantage of future enhancements to the language .
I 'm using since years the app CallTell available on cydia ( so available only for jailbroken devices ) . I 've tried it on iPhone 3GS , 4,4 s and now 5 and it worked fine , even though since I 've updated to iOS 6.0.1 I 'm having some bugs on it , the reason why I was here looking around if there is another app doing the same job ... but I really encourage you guys to try it if you have none . The app does n't add an icon on your home screen , is set up on the device settings screen . The app speaks call , messages ( caller and/or text ) and even applications notifications . All of these things can the configured on silent , ringing of both modes . You can put it on , off and even configure the text to speak before the name
end question
start question
Advantage of doing a clean Install of Mountain Lion ?
Installing cleanly gives you the advantage that you will know if an error is due to the " as-shipped " condition of the software before you add your data and applications to the mix . The installation of a new OS is the primary time when people notice corruption of a filesystem or other hardware type errors since a machine can often keep running well with some little errors . But relinking all the kernel extensions and drivers and knowing that your accessories and applications will all take to a major new OS is a lot of change . Spending a little extra time up front can help isolate issues if you have them . By running the migration later , you have more control over things and can also choose to hand migrate anything first that you do n't trust the tools to automate .
This is Alex from Reincubate , I work on the iPhone Backup Extractor . Setting up your iPhone from scratch will mean that you lose your personalized settings , while restoring from previous backup will revert the settings to the moment of the backup . If you have nothing against taking it all over again with your iPhone you should set as new , but if you are in a hurry and want to speed the process up restore from backup . Hope it helps .
You shouldnt need to buy it as it is included as part of the iLife suite which comes with all Macs . From : <URL> Insert the Applications installation disc and double-click the Install Bundled Software icon . If your computer came with an iLife installation disc , or you purchased a newer version of iLife , insert that disc instead . Follow the onscreen instructions . Then , in the Installation Type pane , click Customize . Click the disclosure triangle next to Bundled Applications , select the checkbox next to the application you want to install , then click Install .
If you have an old AppleTV it may be <URL> , but to me it seems a bit like a hack . And I would n't be at all surprised if the license does n't allow it . Your Snow Leopard license is probably an upgrade license for Leopard ( Apple does n't sell hardware without OS , so they only sell upgrade licenses I think ) , and I doubt the Apple TV runs the default version of Leopard . If you can install Snow Leopard then do n't use updates , as the kernel needs to be replaced :)
The recovery partition on your original disk was the only supported method until the <URL> was made available . The bulk of this answer was written before the official steps were published - so I would recommend the Recovery Disk Assistant even though HT4718 steps help understand what is happening under the hood . <URL> The easiest is to get a drive enclosure or adapter and re-run the Lion installer from the Recovery HD and install Lion onto the new SSD . It likely wo n't matter if the drive with the recovery HD is on an external bus or an internal bus , but I would keep the original drive inside the mac until you have Lion installed on your SSD connected to an external port . Boot off the SSD to test it and run migration from the internal drive to the SSD before doing swapping the drives inside your mac . It still boggles my mind that any mac will ship without some sort of reinstall media . Look in the center of the box , under where the mac sat . Call apple if your media is missing so they can ship it to you or point out how they want you to reinstall the OS on a new drive . Your mac 's hard drive is listed as a consumer replaceable part , so they have to provide you with the steps to do that .
Once you have downloaded it from the App Store , but before you run it , you can copy the Install Mountain Lion app into the Applications folder of any Mac you have an Admin account on ( and have signed into the App store as you obviously ) and run it from there . If the Mac is not recent enough to install Mountain Lion the installer will tell you , otherwise it will happily install Mountain Lion for you . That 's how I updated all the Macs at my place . Note that once run the installer will delete itself from the Applications folder .
As far as the license says , no . You have the right to : So , as far as the license goes , you must already be running Mountain Lion in order to virtualize it .
In Preferences , select Messages and check " Save history when conversations are closed . " Now when you quit Messages , it will create a collection of chat transcripts . You can easily access these in your Library folder . From Finder , select Go > Go to Folder and type : . If you are on Mavericks or Yosemite , the location is . This will take you directly to the appropriate folder .
It 's not at all clear that Apple will endorse the transference of an App Store account and it 's clear they do n't endorse transferring parts of the purchase history . Legally , you might be able to get away with this in certain parts of the world , but it 's clearly not something Apple is keen to point out how to accomplish this or has built in a " gift my license " functionality to their stores at present . Why not include a gift card for the App Store in question or some other cash equivalent with the sale ?
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
History . In the original Macintosh 's System Software in 1984 , Apple decided that releasing the mouse button over a menu separator should dismiss the menu . This was probably because they viewed holding down the mouse button as a form of concentration ; letting go of the button meant it should go away . Where the mouse was did n't matter . You could even be outside the menus entirely , but not pointing at anything particular on the screen . Later , when Apple made menus click instead of hold , the behaviour was copied over . That was years ago , the the behaviour is still the same . ( It actually probably predates 1984 ; the Lisa probably did the same . ) I think this was absolutely the right behaviour for click-and-hold menus , but click-and-hold requires more coordination than click .
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
If you need to clean your Apple hardware use a clean dry microfiber cloth . It 's what I see Apple employes using on all the equipment in the Apple stores . I 've been using microfiber for years on all my Apple devices and has worked great without any damage . Note : If necessary you can slightly dampen it with distilled water and wring it out well so it is really just ever so slightly dampened and the follow up with a clean dry microfiber cloth .
<URL> Because of how Find My Mac works , you must deselect the box next to Find My Mac in the OS X System Preferences > iCloud pane to remove your device from your iCloud Find My iPhone , iPad , iPod Touch , or Mac device list . One of the ways this persistence is implemented is by writing a Find My Mac token to <URL> , the persistent memory in Intel Macs . You can see this token by running the following command in a terminal : On my Mac , the result includes my name , Apple ID , and the name I gave the computer , along with some encoded information that probably includes a key of some sort .
Another way to address your question : If this is the Mac you 're using to make your living , then DEFINITELY run do n't walk and get a touch input now . Recommend Magic Trackpad if it 's a desktop , but not a strong opinion there . If you 're in college , just in your first job , or in a financial situation where someone bought your Mac for you and the $ 60-70 for a touch input is pricey - I definitely think you can get by without one without feeling like a 2nd class citizen . Same answer if you 're planning to upgrade soon to another Mac that 'll come with one and do n't want to pay for one twice . Otherwise , if you 're using this Mac several times ( or several hours ) a day , I 'd say get a touch-based input sooner than later . If you 're only using it occasionally and you 're asking because spending another $ 70 ( on a computer you thought important enough to invest $ 1000 + in , mind you ) , then I 'd wait until you can try it out on someone else 's computer . Finally , if you are considering getting one and $ 20-30 will make a substantial difference in your decision calculus ... keep an eye on discount sites , including Apple clearance online . Every few months they typically offer discounted refurb devices that are easily as good as buying new .
Yes the installer is updated with 10.8.x releases as they come out . You will need to update the installer app through the App Store as you would for any other app . ( Source : <URL> ) . Like any other application purchased from the Mac App Store , these OS installers are updated in-place as part of the normal Mac App Store update process when new versions are released . It 's as if your Mac OS X 10.6.0 installation disc gradually morphed into a 10.6.1 installer , then a 10.6.2 installer , and so on . Example given is 10.6 , but the reviewer is talking about 10.8 .
Have a look at this hint : <URL> You can ( temporarily ) show the location of the current desktop picture by executing the following command from the Terminal : You can revert this behavior by executing the following :
The current non-beta version of Xcode , 4.3.3 for Lion , works fine on a retina device but certain UI elements are not retina-enabled . Most notably the little " LCD " screen that sits in the top middle of the toolbar , it looks quite blurry on a retina MBP . Also the Play/Stop buttons , and many other UI elements . However the text used to render your code is crisp .
Mountain Lion does n't ship with any GCC , but you can install GCC 4.7 . I have done this on my machine .
from <URL> So you might be best contacting them .
end question
start question
Any way to make nicknames appear rather than full names ?
Unfortunately , Apple has n't given us that feature . As you probably already noticed the only place it displays is in the contact listing itself .
I have an external hard disk connected to an AirPort Extreme . Time Machine wirelessly backs up my MacBook Pro to it . In this regard , it works the same as TimeCapsule but as the hard disk is external ( and you get to choose it ) , it does n't suffer from the same reliability problems . I 've found the AirPort Extreme to be a very good Wireless Access Point , too ( and not just for Apple devices ) .
One option would be to use <URL> in a shell script : You could also use System Events to get the applications from the Open With menu : I did n't really test the scripts , but they 're probably affected by <URL> . Related questions at Super User : <URL> <URL>
I would suggest <URL> . You can apply it to your entire network using their name servers and block categories or specific URL 's . Although the ad might show up as a frame to a ' Website Blocked ' page from OpenDNS , you 'll probably find it useful ( it 's free ) .
Dock position could be changed when You place Your mouse on the bottom edge of the secondary screen and then move it down again .
I believe the output is unmodified except for amplification . For specific settings , you might find the Audio MIDI Setup utility useful as it includes per-speaker amplification settings . As I 'm not a big audiophile I ca n't attest to the specific settings you mention but that 's where I would start to test things out .
It sounds like you probably activated the " Application Windows " feature of Mission Control ( previously Exposé ) in an app that did n't have any windows open . It looks like this if you have no windows in that app open : The list of files are recently opened files in that application ( in this case , TextEdit ) . How you opened it depends on your particular setup . You can set a keyboard shortcut for it in System Preferences under Mission Control , but I think there are also gestures . I do n't have a Magic Mouse or Trackpad with gesture support handy , so I ca n't confirm exactly what may have activated it for you . Look through the Mouse panel in System Preferences for any reference to Exposé or " Show Application Windows " or similar for an idea of what exactly activated it .
No , you ca n't . The only way to achieve some kind of manual ordering is disabling the " Automatically rearrange " option in the Mission Control prefpane , and switching all your apps to fullscreen in the correct order from left to right ( new spaces get added to the right ) . That said , you wo n't be able to move anything left of the first desktop space .
You can use <URL> to for example turn the right option into an extra modifier key for opening applications : See <URL> for more examples . If you have bought the Powerpack for <URL> , you can use workflows like this : Hotkeys have a short delay by default , but you can reduce it by changing the trigger behavior :
It depends . If your machine was password protected , you might be out of luck . If not , there are a few possibilities . If you have SSH enabled that might be an option . Also , if you had any remote access programs installed , like TeamViewer or LogMeIn , you have a chance to find it , assuming it 's connected to the internet . Regardless , I suggest contacting Apple and telling them the serial number of the machine and that it was stolen . If it 's brought in for service , you might be able to get it back . ( Although Apple has no official policy on this , it does n't hurt to tell them . I contacted them when my iMac was stolen . Like I said , not much help , but it 's better than nothing . ) PS : Check <URL> out . You might find it inspiring at least .
The only visible change that jailbreaking does is the installation of the cydia app on your homescreen . what i would suggest is to go into cydia and get an app called Poof to hide the cydia icon . You can follow the guide here <URL> , or you can hide it in a folder with a bunch of other apps .
Yes , Greasemonkey or " User scripts " were the ones that popularized this . For one option on Mac/Safari , please see <URL>
In iTunes in the left hand sidebar go to Apps into the Library selection . If you delete the app there it will not show up in the sync section . In case you need it again you can always download it from the Store again ( as long as it is available there ) .
You can remove the country code from the URL , so it reads . That gives you a valid iTunes URL , that if opened in a browser ( that does n't auto-open iTunes ) , appears to be the same as if the link were a US link . However when any iTunes link is opened in iTunes itself , it will attempt to redirect to the version in the user 's local store . I.e. when I click on the link you posted , I get sent to the same item in the Canadian store . If the item is n't available in the Canadian store , I get a message like this : So , you should be safe using country-specific store links , and iTunes will handle the redirection as appropriate .
It seems that the setting is only available on the 3G model . It does not exist on the latest version of iOS ( 4.2.1 ) on the Wi-Fi model .
Without writing a full-blown Objective-C app , this is pretty difficult to do well . I wrote something you might be able to use a while back . Just put it up on Github <URL> . It 's a Ruby script that you should be able to use as long as you 're comfortable in a shell and text editor . No Ruby knowledge required . It 's a bit dumb , in the sense that it just runs a shell command when a change is detected in the watched folder ( or subfolders ) . You can use that to call an Applescript though . Should be some way to do the same for Automator workflows . However , if you depend on the input from the folder action ( i.e. the files/folders that triggered the action ) , this wo n't work . You could probably modify the Ruby script to catch the path of the files/folders triggering the event , and then pass that to an Applescript or Automator action , but I did n't need anything that complex , so I just hacked this together . Good luck .
Once a keyboard trace has been damaged by water , it 's practically impossible to fix them . You 're better off buying a new keyboard . It 's not the best news , but once a keyboard has been damaged by liquid , there 's very little chance they will work again . For cleaning your keyboard , I 'd recommend isopropyl alcohol pads .
The iOS version of Sparrow has just been released , and it contains this functionality . In the settings for email accounts you can set up aliases . You can also set up a custom signature and SMTP server for each alias : When composing a message , by default it will be sent from your default alias . If you want to change this , tap the " From " in the top center and you will be able to select which alias you want this message to come from : Sparrow is available in the <URL> .
It appears the router does n't support Bonjour at all ( and Belkin support were totally clueless when approached about it ) , so I 've returned it for a refund and am on the hunt for one that plays nicely with Macs .
I do n't think it 's possible to make the clips shorter then 5ms in any video software , because depending on the frame rate a single frame takes more time ( 16,6 ms for 60 fps ) . It does n't make much sense to add a clip to a video , that is so short that it is not seen on screen for at least one frame .
end question
start question
What features from Lion will be lost when upgrading to Mountain Lion ?
Of course . In adding features , the behavior of previous features changes , not always for the better . If you find features that were present in Lion but missing in Mountain Lion , please edit this answer to add your contributions to this list . Mountain Lion drops support for some models of Macs supported by Lion . Clicking the top right corner no longer triggers Spotlight ( Spotlight 's menubar icon is still present , adjacent to the new Notification Center icon ) . The battery indicator in the menubar will <URL> . <URL> is included , but that app alone no longer provides X11 functionality . When the user first runs X11.app -- or an app that requires X11 -- a <URL> guides the user to Apple 's article <URL> about XQuartz , which provides the functionality . Mail.app and Safari.app drop support for RSS Feeds .
I think you should be fine . I upgraded to Lion on a Mac Pro that has a RAID 0 . While the OS is installed to an SSD , not RAID , Lion still detected the RAID just fine . That 's obviously a different scenario than what you have , but as the software RAID is handled at a higher level than the OS , I think you should be fine . Obviously , have a backup ready to go just in case , but my guess is that your upgrade should go smoothly .
App applications downloaded from the App Store will automatically resume if your network service is interrupted . The Lion download is a DVD sized . dmg file that contains the OS , not a pre-loader . If your download does get interrupted you can control + click on the Lion icon in your dock then click resume .
Once you have purchased something in the App Store , you can always download it again without paying ( This is the same on the Mac App Store and iOS ) . You will see it in your ' purchases ' tab in the Mac App Store . So once you use your redemption code , you have ' purchased ' it , and can install it whenever you need it .
The file you mention is a binary formatted property list . You can convert and edit these files with developer tools such as <URL> . The following article walks through the steps required , <URL> .
Yes , Apple sells older OS as redeemable downloads from the web store . Apple sells <URL> , <URL> , for # 14 each on the UK store . The US store link is below and it appears the part number is the same no matter which store you select : <URL> <URL>
It prompts you ( just tried to open Aptana ) . I let it install and gives
If your computer is locked , the screensaver settings for the root user account is used instead of your own . You can change those settings according to the answer to this question : <URL>
The FTP server in Mountain Lion is still there , just not part of the GUI . You can re-enable it using the following in Terminal : To disable , do instead of . * The FTP root directory is your Users home folder .
disable Gatekeeper ( " Allow applications downloaded from : Anywhere " ) run Eclipse once reset Gatekeeper to a more strict level ( " Mac Store and identified developers " . ) Doing this has allowed me to start Davmail , also a Java app , after Mountain Lion initially claimed the binary was corrupt ( " App is damaged and ca n't be opened " error message ) even when back on the stricter level . Another option , as mentioned in John Siracusa 's <URL> , is to do the following from the Terminal : I have not ( yet ) personally tested this but John 's a solid source .
What you like to do ... there is a working SSH / SSL already on your Mac . If you like to build stunnel you need Xcode with the CLI tools ... and some time . I haven ´ t tried it but a quick look in the build instructions looks as if there are no big problems . As promised , here are the steps to build stunnel from source . I used a Lion machine but it is the same on a Mountain Lion machine . There is no need for Fink , MacPorts or Homebrew ... brings more troubles then it helps . Go to <URL> and download stunnel-5.23.tar.gz and stunnel-5.23.tar.gz . sha256 . Open a terminal Utilities = > Terminal > . Terminal is case sensitive , before you do something think twice before you press return - there is no undo or redo in terminal . Each line is one line in terminal and needs to press return at the end of the line . Compare the output of the last 2 lines - if it matches all is fine , if not you had a security problem during download . The configure script uses autoconf , so put your fingers away from other options because if all is there and supported it will build a fine 64 bit app for you . make check is optionally . sudo make install requires your admin password . During this step you had to input some basic informations ( self explaining ) . The &amp; &amp; is used to run one command after each other ONLY if the last was successful . After all is done your stunned app was installed in / usr/local/bin . To run it , open terminal and type or ( see the docs for the difference ) and press return . For the config file type in terminal . For the documentation of pico use in terminal . If I had some mistypes of filenames or anything else here use in terminal the following command to list a directory For the rest , have fun with stunned and the documentation of it !
No , the update will not be free ( though it is yet unclear what the price will be , possibilities ranging from $ 29 to $ 129 ) , and will only be free for those who purchase computers within 2 weeks of the update coming out ( this is usually the time window for the free upgrades that Apple offers ) in the summer . If you 've purchased your computer recently , sorry , but you 'll have to pay for it .
It sounds like you 're a developer . You should install Mac Ports . It 's REALLY helpful and useful to have . You can use it to get command line tools such as autoconf . It 's always useful to have if you work with command line a lot . Just install the . pkg from <URL> to install MacPorts . After so , in terminal , run : More info : <URL>
Apple <URL> the following Macs will run Mountain Lion : iMac ( Mid 2007 or newer ) MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Mid/Late 2007 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or newer ) Mac mini ( Early 2009 or newer ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or newer ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) So the complement of this list are not supported to run Mountain Lion ( as far as I can tell ; edit this list to add or subtract models as appropriate ; you may be able to get it running on an unsupported machine ) : Macintosh 128K Macintosh 512K Macintosh 128K ( revised ) Macintosh XL Macintosh Plus Macintosh 512Ke Macintosh Plus ( Platinum ) Macintosh SE Macintosh II Macintosh IIx Macintosh SE/30 Macintosh IIcx Macintosh SE FDHD Macintosh IIci Macintosh Portable Macintosh IIfx Macintosh LC Macintosh Classic Macintosh IIsi Macintosh Portable ( backlit screen ) Macintosh Classic II Quadra 700 Quadra 900 PowerBook 100 PowerBook 140 PowerBook 170 Macintosh LC II Quadra 950 PowerBook 145 Macintosh IIvi Macintosh IIvx PowerBook 160 PowerBook 180 PowerBook Duo 210 PowerBook Duo 230 Macintosh LC III / III + Macintosh Color Classic Centris 610 Centris 650 Quadra 800 PowerBook 165c Workgroup Server 80 Workgroup Server 95 PowerBook 145b PowerBook 180c Macintosh LC 520 Workgroup Server 60 Centris / Quadra 660AV Quadra 840AV PowerBook 165 Macintosh Color Classic II Macintosh TV Quadra 605 Quadra 610 Quadra 650 PowerBook Duo 250 PowerBook Duo 270c Macintosh LC 550 Macintosh LC 575 Power Macintosh 6100 Power Macintosh 7100 Power Macintosh 8100 Workgroup Server 6150 Workgroup Server 8150 Workgroup Server 9150 PowerBook 520/c PowerBook 540/c PowerBook 550 PowerBook Duo 280 PowerBook Duo 280c Quadra 630 PowerBook 150 Power Macintosh 6200 / 6300 Macintosh LC 580 Performa 5200 Power Macintosh 9500 Power Macintosh 7200 Power Macintosh 7500 Power Macintosh 8500 PowerBook 190 PowerBook 5300 PowerBook Duo 2300c Workgroup Server 7250 Workgroup Server 8550 Performa 5260 / 5300 Performa 5400 Power Macintosh 7600 Performa 6360 Performa 6400 Power Macintosh 4400 PowerBook 1400 Power Macintosh 5500 Power Macintosh 6500 Power Macintosh 7300 Power Macintosh 8600 Power Macintosh 9600 PowerBook 3400 Twentieth Anniversary Macintosh Workgroup Server 7350 Workgroup Server 9650 PowerBook 2400c Power Macintosh G3 desktop Power Macintosh G3 minitower PowerBook G3 Power Macintosh G3 AIO Macintosh Server G3 PowerBook G3 series iMac G3 Power Macintosh G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) Macintosh Server G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) PowerBook G3 ( " Lombard " ) iBook Macintosh Server G4 iMac ( slot loading ) Power Mac G4 Graphite PowerBook ( " Pismo " ) Power Mac G4 Cube iBook ( FireWire ) PowerBook G4 Titanium iBook ( white ) Power Mac G4 Quicksilver Server G4 Quicksilver iMac G4 15 " iBook ( 14 " ) eMac Xserve iMac G4 17 " Power Mac G4 MDD Macintosh Server G4 MDD PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 12 " ) PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 17 " ) Xserve slot loading Xserve Cluster Node Power Mac G5 PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 15 " ) iBook G4 ( 12 " / 14 " ) iMac G4 20 " Xserve G5 Xserve Cluster Node G5 Xserve Power Mac G5 FX iMac G5 17 " iMac G5 20 " iMac Mac mini Power Mac G5 dual core iMac Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 15 " ) Mac mini Core Solo Mac mini Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 17 " ) MacBook ( Late 2008 plastic ) Xserve ( Intel ) ( Late 2006 ) MacBook ( Late 2006 ) Mac mini Core 2 Duo MacBook ( Late 2007 ) Xserve Harpertown MacBook Penryn 1st generation MacBook Air ( early 2008 )
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
Yes it is . I use it for my firewall needs . A great way to test if it still exists , is to just run it . Open Terminal.app and enter the following command : It should report the following ( rules may vary ) : Additionally , Apple will not remove it as it is actually the backend for the default Application Firewall found in System Preferences , at least not for some time . You can read up more on ipfw in OS X using <URL> ( or simply type in Terminal.app ) . As for pf ( the actual implementation of OS X is ) , it is a much more object orientated program that can control network access translation and packet filter ( while requires external components to handle them ) . It is born from OpenBSD ( as opposed to FreeBSD ) and has been around for quite a while as well . It 's power comes from being able to accomplish more internally , but also optimize long rulesets ( that sometimes bogs down ) . They are both , however , excellent firewalls and can coexist quite happily . <URL> .
In the new Contacts Application for Mountain Lion there are no buttons for group management , only menu items . Under the File Menu , there are , , and menu items . When you have a group selected , under the Edit menu there will be a menu item available . To be able to select groups , you need to be in the proper view under the View menu : .
Another way to address your question : If this is the Mac you 're using to make your living , then DEFINITELY run do n't walk and get a touch input now . Recommend Magic Trackpad if it 's a desktop , but not a strong opinion there . If you 're in college , just in your first job , or in a financial situation where someone bought your Mac for you and the $ 60-70 for a touch input is pricey - I definitely think you can get by without one without feeling like a 2nd class citizen . Same answer if you 're planning to upgrade soon to another Mac that 'll come with one and do n't want to pay for one twice . Otherwise , if you 're using this Mac several times ( or several hours ) a day , I 'd say get a touch-based input sooner than later . If you 're only using it occasionally and you 're asking because spending another $ 70 ( on a computer you thought important enough to invest $ 1000 + in , mind you ) , then I 'd wait until you can try it out on someone else 's computer . Finally , if you are considering getting one and $ 20-30 will make a substantial difference in your decision calculus ... keep an eye on discount sites , including Apple clearance online . Every few months they typically offer discounted refurb devices that are easily as good as buying new .
... So there really is n't a Messages.app . It 's still iChat.app but with some magic causing the Finder to show it as Messages . [ ... ] [ T ] he magic is in the Bundle name entry in the Info.plist file in / Applications/iChat . app/Contents ... Why did Apple choose to do it this way ? My guess is that Apple wanted Messages to inherit all your old iChat settings so you would n't have to redo everything . Also , because Messages is in beta , Apple wanted you to have an easy way to uninstall Messages and go back to iChat as if you never left . I 'm not sure this shallow rebranding was the best way to achieve these goals , but it does seem minimally disruptive . ... For the complete information I will point you to <URL> that answers this question , and more , about iChat/Messages .
end question
start question
How to open a new blank document in Pages from spotlight ?
Part of the problem can be eliminated by selecting a default template in the Preferences . <URL> Then , when opening from Spotlight or Alfred , a click on the new document button opens your default template . [ Blank in the case of the setting shown above . ] Then , one could create an Automator or Applescript workflow that is attached to a service evoked by a keystroke combination . Edit : OP @Rusl added this Applescript to a keystroke combination .
Page numbering and format can be defined per section so you can get to the required format by creating two sections in your document and setting the page numbering accordingly Start with an empty document " Insert - Auto Page Number " , select the " Section " option for " Show In " and set the format to roman numbers . This is now your TOC section . Use " Insert - Section break " to create a new section " Insert - Auto Page Number " again , select the " Section " option for " Show In " and set the format to arabic numbers With the cursor in the second section , open the inspector and reset the page number to 1
<URL> One of the fastest ways to hide a file or folder , from Spotlight , on the fly is to add the . noindex extension to the end of the filename or folder . The simplest way to get those files hidden is to create a folder , preferably named something innocuous , and add the extension to the end of the name . I 'll end up with a folder named " Nothing to See Here.noindex " or something similar . Hide just a single file Select the file to be hidden . Right-click and select Get Info , or click Command + I. Find the Name &amp; Extension field , and replace the current extension with . noindex . When prompted to confirm that I want to change the extension , I agree . Now my file is properly hidden from Spotlight search . Finlay : Finder wo n't know what to do with my file anymore , though . Look to the drop-down labeled Open With , and select an application to handle the file . Be careful of setting a single application to handle all . noindex files , as many different file types may be hidden from Spotlight , and OS X sometimes creates . noindex files itself
Add this to the CFBundleDocumentTypes array in : Change the default application back to Safari in Finder If the application is signed , modifying an Info.plist <URL> . It also makes a few applications like TextEdit and WriteRoom crash on launch on 10.8 .
This can be done by using the " New Text Document Here " action Select folder - > tab - > start typing " New " - > select " New Text Document Here " - > type name - > enter . If you 're looking for a more complete solution that can create any type of file ( including ones without the . txt extension that the New Text Document action forces ) try this Applescript . Just put it in a file named in the directory : It 'll touch the file , then select it in LaunchBar upon completion ( you can comment out the line that does that by adding to the beginning of the line or just removing it ) .
I would not recommend it since this may cause issues . The installation process of OS X is specific to the underlying hardware . So if you just clone the iMac HDD and use it in a MacBook Pro , it 's possible that you may encounter issues . It wo n't hurt to try it out , so do try . But when you try it : Make sure that you press Cmd + V when you hear the startup chime on the MacBook Pro and hold it until you see a Verbose Boot initiated ( with many Unix related messages coming up on the text screen and scrolling up ) . You can read through the messages to see if any serious looking errors appear before the login window comes up . Also note how long the startup process takes and whether it seems slower than it should be . After you 're logged in , you can also check for errors during startup . For a good experience , I would instead recommend that you do a fresh install on the new HDD ( with the HDD installed on the MacBook Pro ) and then use Migration Assistant to copy applications and files over .
According to the <URL> HFSExplorer can open and read encrypted dmg images . HFSExplorer is an application that can read Mac-formatted hard disks and disk images . It can read the file systems HFS ( Mac OS Standard ) , HFS + ( Mac OS Extended ) and HFSX ( Mac OS Extended with case sensitive file names ) . HFSExplorer allows you to browse your Mac volumes with a graphical file system browser , extract files ( copy to hard disk ) , view detailed information about the volume and create disk images from the volume . HFSExplorer can also read most . dmg / . sparsebundle disk images created on a Mac , including zlib / bzip2 compressed images and AES-128 / AES-256 encrypted images . It supports the partition schemes Master Boot Record , GUID Partition Table and Apple Partition Map natively . <URL> .
Apps are paused when backgrounded and resume when opened . If an app does not correctly resume to the state it was left in , this is something only the developer can fix . It 's not possible to run an app in the background as if it was in the foreground . Apps can only run a limited set of tasks in the background for a short period of time per Apple guidelines , or use structured backgrounding such as Background App Refresh . Also see <URL> .
Any person new to Apple and Mac would find lot of things un-intuitive or just forced on the user , w/o any options to change it . Or it might be that just many of us had their first experiences on Win/Linux systems . But just found this plugin to finder <URL> which among lot of other options allows you to ENTER/RETURN to open a file . Feeling a lot relieved now ! Hope it helps .
This command will list all files indexed by spotlight system : To store the output in a file :
This is a bit old , but nothing is drastically different in 10.8 : <URL> This a simple Service for creating new files the currently-open folder in Finder , using AppleScript and Automator . Start by launching Automator , and in the chooser that appears , select Service . This will open a new Automator window , set up to create a Service . In that window , do the following : Set the Service to receive selected folders in Finder ( the two drop-down menus at the top of the work area on the right ) . This makes it easier to assign a keyboard shortcut to our service , which we 'll do at the end . Drag and drop the ' Run AppleScript ' action ( in the Utilities Library ) into the work area on the right . Paste in the following AppleScript , then click the Hammer icon ( to compile the code ) : Drag and drop the ' Set value of a variable ' action from the Utilities Library , and create a new variable called , for example , CurrentFolder . ( Do this by clicking on the drop-down menu . ) Drag and drop the New Text File action from the Text library into the work area . Then drag CurrentFolder from the Variable panel at the bottom of the Automator window to the Where entry of the New Text File action . Click the Options button in the action , and click the ' Show this action when the workflow runs ' box . This makes it possible to change the name and extension of the new file . Save the service as ' Create New File , ' or whatever you like . Test your new action using the Services menu in Finder , to make sure it works ( select a folder , Control-click , and you should see your new Service at the bottom of the contextual menu ) . On the Keyboard Shortcuts tab of the Keyboard System Preferences panel , select Services in the left-hand column , and your new service ( it should be in the Files and Folders section ) in the right-hand panel . Assign a keyboard shortcut to the new Service by double-clicking to the right of the Service 's name . Switch back to Automator and change the leftmost drop-down menu ( at the top of the work area ) to No Input , then save the Service again .
Not ideal but : Go into Preferences : Signatures , create a new Signature , erase the name and e-mail address , and hit Enter once to create a blank line . Then check the " Place signature above quoted text " box . Note : once a signature has been saved with actual text , Mail wo n't let you blank it out , so make sure you do this with a new sig , rather than editing an old one .
You could also import a file like this to <URL> : I made a <URL> based on <URL> . Many of the abbreviations are the same as TeX / LaTeX character commands .
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
Maybe <URL> helps you out ? Choose Format > Font > Capitalization and choose an option from the submenu . Choose Small Caps to change the text to smaller capitals with larger capitals for uppercase letters
NB this seems to be fixed in the most recent versions of OS X , so workaround perhaps no longer required ... Workaround Probably the simplest / safest option is to ' flatten ' the PDF before sending it , by printing it to a new PDF . After completing your form in Preview , go to the Print menu ( ) and use the PDF drop-down in the bottom-left , selecting to to generate a new , ' flattened ' PDF . Flattened simply means that all annotations ( including data in the form ) become indistinguishable from the actual content of the PDF , as if they were part of it all along . This means you ca n't edit them anymore ( in the new , printed PDF ) , which can be desirable , but also means they 'll show up properly in Adobe . The Problem The actual cause of the problem is <URL> from Adobe , and that blog post also includes a script for Acrobat users to recover the data from a form filled in using Preview.app ( it turns out Preview puts the data in the form , but does n't specify how it should ' appear ' , so Acrobat shows it as blank/invisible ) . I 'll leave it up to the reader to decide whether this is a bug in Adobe 's software ( for not showing form data without a specified " appearance " ) or a bug in Apple 's software ( for not including the " appearance " information ) . If you 've been affected by this bug , please consider notifying one/both of these companies of the issue : Apple 's <URL> or <URL> sites . Adobe 's <URL> or <URL> sites .
You can still get iWork 09 via this method [ though I 've not tried this to go back to 09 , you may need to remove the latest versions first , or just zip them up - not tested ] Got to <URL> Click on External Mirror 1 This will download iWork09Trial Open the dmg &amp; run the installer You may need to fight against the current version &amp; Software Update may keep nagging you to update . As I say , I 've never tried this to revert to an older version
( with the ↩ symbol ) opens the folder for browsing its contents ( unless you 're in column view ) . You need to press instead . It 's a different key , and its symbol is ⌤ . If you do n't have that key on your keyboard , you can press to achieve the same effect .
Yes . Hold down on the icon that you use to open a new tab in the upper right corner of Safari and you 'll be presented with a list of recently closed tabs . Pick one to re-open . As far as I know this is an iOS 5 + feature , iPad only .
The current version of Google Chrome for Mac ( 14.0.835.202 ) is not correctly supporting this behavior , even when the System Preference to " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " is selected in the General Preferences pane ( like the Mail app or Safari does ) . There is an open bug ticket on this issue with Google so at some point the " remember full screen state after close " should be resolved . Here is the bug report link : <URL>
end question
start question
How can I printscreen in X11 Environment ?
According to @ <URL> hint I find what was my problem I must un check Full-screen mode in X11 Preferences .
If you install the X11 subsystem , it will only run when you have an X11 program running . Much the same as when installing the JVM - that will only run when you run a Java program .
iOS does have an Armenian font and can therefore display Unicode Armenian in emails , webpages , and text . For input there are at least two apps that let you construct custom keyboards , and one of them , UniKey , comes with Armenian already : <URL> Beyond that or jailbreaking , I think all you can do is ask Apple to add it via their feedback channel . PS To see Armenian display on your iOS device you can go to <URL>
Double tap on shift to enable caps lock . The shift button will turn fully blue to indicate caps lock is enabled : A glow on the shift arrow after a single tap denotes a normal shift press that is removed after the next keystroke :
You can force Preview to prompt for save on quit with the following Terminal command : Quit and re-open Preview once and you will be prompted in future closes
When you type something several times and ignore the suggestion , iOS assumes you mean to type it that way and adds the word to the Keyboard Dictionary . You can reset the dictionary by going to Settings > General > Reset and tapping " Reset Keyboard Dictionary " . You can not reset the dictionary in a granular way . A possible workaround , however , if you do n't want to reset the whole dictionary , is to add the misspelling as a shortcut and set the replacement phrase as the word spelled correctly . To do this go to Settings > General > Keyboard .
I 've been having the same problem , but I solved it by opening the pdf file in Preview , hitting , then adding the signature in the newly created file . This corrects the orientation of the file so that Preview can identify lines and you can just click on them with the signature tool ( from the Annotate/Edit toolbar ) and add your signature .
The best solution I use for adding the SSID to the menu bar is turning off Apple 's menu item and using WiFi Signal app from Adrian Granados : <URL> <URL> It 's much fuller featured than just displaying the SSID , but it does that job nicely . I am a very satisfied customer of all his Mac apps as they are powerful , well engineered and updated regularly .
If you 're still looking for a method to darken your UI in Yosemite , download Flavours 2 and choose the " Smooth Criminal " flavour . Flavours 2 is still in Beta , but most things look great with this skin .
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
Have you tried exporting the slideshow without the audio , then re-adding the audio manually in iMovie ? This way , you can make sure they both end at the same time by cutting the audio out early . Then , you can burn that to DVD .
Without jailbreaking , I believe your options are the use of apps that provide this kind of lock functionality built-in , unless Apple decide to implement some kind of <URL> in future iOS versions for devices like the iPad . I 've previously come across <URL> or <URL> ( there may well be others ) which provide passcode protection schemes when starting and , judging by the screenshots , appear to be frontends to the relevant webmail pages ( as opposed to a native application like the Apple Mail app ) . I 've not used either , but they may be of use to you .
Yes , add another keyboard to you iPhone . I did it with Russian , follow <URL> , pretty easy . Activating the keyboards is straight forward . Tap the " Settings " icon and then select " General " . Then scroll down and select " Keyboard " and then " International Keyboards " . There you will see the long list of languages available -- simply flicking the toggle to " ON " will activate the keyboard . You can activate as many as you like . Now that more than one language keyboard has been activated you will see a small globe key on all keyboards . Simply tap the globe key to toggle between all the installed keyboards . Simple , elegant and clever .
I do not have Alfred installed however I would think the following method should work . For example , using the Script Editor set to JavaScript the following code returned my login name . So , I 'd assume that if " " is the actual environment variable , then the following might work as well .
It sounds like you are using bash . bash first runs / etc/profile . / etc/profile ( on Mac OS X 10.6.7 ) runs path_helper ( 8 ) which is where your default paths get set . After that it runs / etc/bashrc which does n't do much . Once the default configuration is set , it moves on to the user login scripts . bash looks in your home directory for . bash_profile , . bash_login , and . profile in that order . bash will run the first of these that it finds and stop looking .
If you are using Bootcamp , Apple has provided <URL> : print screen = fn + ⇧ shift + F11
First , you can only merge pdf if they are not protected , if this is the okay : Open both pdf Enable the sidebar in each windows of Preview , then select " Thumbnails " view Drag &amp; drop the cover ( inside the sidebar ) of one pdf into the sidebar of the other pdf . With this method , you can completely merge two pdf or selectively drag &amp; drop the pages you want to merge to create a completely custom new pdf . You can also extract pages from one pdf still using the same manipulation , but drag &amp; drop to the Desktop .
According to this detailed <URL> post the trick is to use Lion 10.7.2 and Safari 5.1.1 to force a flush of the Data . Simplified steps : Turn off bookmark sync on all devices except the Mac Backup current bookmarks on Mac Correct bookmarks on Safari on the Mac Move the new bookmarks out of you Safari Library folder Delete all bookmarks and wait for iCloud to update . Move the new bookmarks folder back and wait for iCloud to update Delete all bookmarks on iOS devices and re-enable sync . It 's laborious , but I am fairly certain Apple will release better tools for this process . Considering there normal rollout , they are probably handling these issues in phases . They introduced Photo Stream reset mid way in the Beta , so I am sure they will bring the rest through over time .
If your mac shipped with Lion , you should be able to run the hardware test by simply holding D when your computer boots . If your mac did not ship with lion , you will need the original install disks to boot into the hardware test mode . <URL>
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
end question
start question
How to Unset iTunes Track Start And Stop Time For Multiple Tracks ?
I just tried this script from dougs scripts on latest iTunes and it worked on the few tracks I selected . <URL>
I 'm on a MBP with osx 10.9.2 . Disabling iTunes in " CD and DVD " preferences does not help . Just renaming iTunes to something else does not work . The service " Remote Control Daemon " , rdc , is responsible for delivering commands to ( for example ) iTunes . Use this script , <URL> . This script modifies the actual binary for rdc to inhibit the command it sends to start iTunes , which means that all other functions of rdc still works as expected .
I ca n't find any description in writing saying that there is any grace period for you to access playlists or any other data after you end a subscription period in iTunes Match . I do recall a warning when signing up for Match that quite explicitly said that I needed to be sure to download all playlists and music from the cloud before my subscription ended . This is in addition to the caution to keep a backup copy of all data ( which in the case of playlists would be using iTunes to export the library to an XML file regularly in addition to backing up each track ) . Apple could be more generous about keeping non-subscriber data around for a grace period of a day or a week or a month , but why risk this when you can back up everything now and then update that backup with anything that changes a week before your subscription ends ?
Workaround in iTunes 11 : Click on the Up Next button and press clear . It will stop after the current song regardless where you start the song from .
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
<URL> ( $ 5 ) will let you load files directly to your iPhone over your LAN and play them from there . That should work fine if your audiobooks are a ) all one file ( if they are in multiple files there may not be ' playlist ' support , which would be annoying , and b ) not DRM 'd . If they are DRM 'd you 'll need to sync them via iTunes or , in the case of Audible.com , you can download them from the <URL> .
As of iOS 5.1 Mobile Safari no longer opens your bookmarks folder when you start it on your iPhone . It shows you the empty browser screen and you have to click on the bookmarks icon to bring up the bookmarks list .
To start Internet Sharing from the CLI : To stop , change the load to unload . Note that if you have the pref pane open when you run this you will not see the change take effect immediately ( the UI wo n't update ) , but it does work .
Have a look at <URL> . Freeware and Open source . Has a GUI .
To turn off iCloud Music Library on your mac , you need to go to : iTunes > Preferences > iCloud Music Library
2 . move some of the tv shows to an external disk and help him restore when needed If your boss has another Mac or PC running iTunes , he can set up Home Sharing and move content back and forth from his MacBook as needed . This option is appealing because it 's contained within iTunes and does n't involve manually copying files and deleting/re-adding them to the iTunes library .
Insert > File . You have to do it one at a time , but it appears to work .
I used to get this issue as well and what I did was to prevent iTunes from auto syncing when I connect a device , this option is found in the iTunes Preferences/Devices and tick the checkbox as shown in the screenshot It 's also worth going into the user preferences then login items and remove " iTunes helper " which should stop it from launching iTunes anytime you connect a device .
Yes - the good splitters mix the pins correctly to provide mono microphone and stereo output in the same jack . You can of course get breakout boxes like the Griffin iMic and have the benefit of a cleaner D/A circuit at the expense of carrying another device that 's plugged into USB . Just like everything - some of the expensive products are over priced and some of the cheap ones are worthless . I 'd go with a name brand - especially if their products are carried on the Apple Online or stocked in the retail stores . Lion does add a control where you can select the speaker icon in the menu and switch from input and output . As to the rationale - unless an engineer from Apple steps up , we 'll have to speculate . Here are the reasons to have fewer ports . ( They 're not al good , but they are reasons ) Simplicity - the iPhone / iPad / iPod touch all have one port . Many people do n't need or want the confusion of knowing which port they plugged in to their mac . Just as you really appreciate having two , many appreciate having only one stereo jack . Internal simplicity - one less switch , one less moving part , several solder points . Internal spacing is far more important than external space . If you look at <URL> - you will see there actually is n't room on the logic board for another connector . The design would have to sacrifice an USB port or the SD card slot to make room for a second package without reducing the space for the battery . These macs are packed incredibly tightly and despite the clean appearance of excess external space , inside they are packed like proverbial sardines in a can . This lack of space likely cuts features from the smaller macs like a redundant mini headphone port .
No , you want be able to stream music to two airport express units simultaneously from an iOS device such as an iPad or iPhone . However , you can stream simultaneously from iTunes running on a Mac or PC . For example , you ca n't have speakers playing in the kitchen and speakers playing in the dining room at the same time unless they are connected to the same airport express . If you have them connected to two airport expresses , you can choose kitchen or dining room but not both . You can play to both if you stream from a Mac or PC using itunes . However , there are apps that will let you control the Mac or PC from your iOS device but you ca n't do it natively .
<URL> ( $ 99 ) Lets you capture , copy , convert , share and burn discs or <URL> ( open source ) again does the same but a more basic version which is free .
Well , there is always the option to copy the contents of to some other place on a regular basis .
Things you can try ( that I have n't tried myself ) , other than <URL> : If you have a 4 digit lockcode on the iPhone , the encryption on iTunes might <URL> . Try the same pin . Also try older pins , if you change it . It could be an old one . Get <URL> , delete <URL> ( may need to jailbreak the phone to be able to see it ) on it and restart . Be aware this will clear all your passwords . Now delete your iTunes encrypted backups and re-sync . <URL> - this is an easy way to remove the lock code , not sure about the encrypt iphone check tho . Probably . Use some <URL> , <URL> to begin with a lot more of hacking . I wo n't get into much detail here because this is n't a simple procedure . You 're on your own . Just wanted to cite it 's possible and that maybe even today the " encryption " is quite fake . Restore from an old unencrypted backup . Yes , this is the closest step to " wipe " . As you already suggested , wipe your phone ( just for the sake of completeness ) . Good luck !
It turns out the issue for me is that OSX has created 2 entries in the Calendar app for my Gmail account ( even though I only have the account entered once under the Internet Accounts system pref ) . The Calendar app wo n't let me delete the duplicate since it thinks the duplicate is managed under the Internet Accounts pref . Deleting and re-adding the gmail account in Internet Accounts did n't help either . After deleting the Internet Account , the duplicate still sticks around in the Calendar app is not deletable since the Calendar app ca n't delete it , and there is no corresponding Internet Account for that calendar . I got around the issue by un-checking the " Enable this account " checkbox for the duplicate in the Calendar app ( since it wo n't let me delete it ) . That at least makes it stop checking for calendar updates so I do n't get pestered for passwords .
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
end question
start question
Can I automatically launch an app at a specific time on Mavericks ?
The great thing about a specific question is that it can be given a specific answer . For example , the OP said : " There 's an excellent Flickr app called SuprSetr which I 'd like to automatically launch each morning at 3:55 am . How ? " Answer : Save the following as ( or whatever name you prefer , but it should end with . plist ) and put it into the folder ~ / Library/LaunchAgents ( where ~ is your Home Directory ) : And then , once the file is in place , you should enter this command in Terminal : Then it will be ready to launch the app SuprSetr at 3:55 a.m. every day . ( Note : if the computer is asleep at 3:55 a.m. , it will run when the computer wakes up . ) From that specific example , once you understand that what this file does does is tell to run the Terminal command : at the hour ' 3 ' and the minute ' 55 ' , then it should be easy to extrapolate from that to other apps that you want to run at other times . Now , if you want to write these all by hand , you can do that for free , but an app like <URL> is a good choice ( I 'd recommend not buying the Mac App Store version , as the app seems to me like something that Apple is not going to like in the world of sandboxing , and you 'd get a more feature-rich app from the developer . My personal preference is for an app called <URL> which is free to try , and then the developer asks for something reasonable like US$ 10 , but there is no DRM , no license codes , but instead relies on the good ol' honor system . ( It 's my hope that people who use it will live up to the developer 's faith in that system . )
There is a freeware , <URL> , to launch a single application with a different languages . it 's really simple and work amazingly .
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
Depending on how your System prefs are set , F3 will do a variety of window-juggling tasks ... If Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard is set to default , with " Use all F1 , F2 ... " unchecked then they will work as stated , if it 's checked you will need to add the Fn key to each of these commands . F3 will toggle Mission Control - all windows of all apps &amp; Desktops spread out so you can see them . Cmd ⌘ F3 will toggle desktop view only . Ctrl ⌃ F3 will show all windows of only the frontmost app * [ this is likely to be the closest to what you need . ] Shift ⇧ F3 will do the same as just F3 ... only really really slowly [ for presentations etc ] Opt ⌥ F3 will bring up Mission Control prefs , where you can tweak other behaviour . You can also go directly to a given tab by right-clicking the app icon in the Dock , though it only shows the frontmost tab 's title for each window .
No - the OS picks channels algorithmically so you get what iOS chooses each time you enable personal hot spot . I 've seen personal hotspot pick channels 1 , 6 and 11 on iOS 7 when in moderately busy wireless environments like this one with 26 advertising base stations ( and a few hidden ones as well ) .
Yes , if you have a paid developer account you can create signed IPAs which can be installed on the device remotely , or you can use TestFlight . If you do n't have a paid developer account but your device is jailbroken you can install unsigned IPAs . Note that this does n't include debugging which ca n't be done remotely .
@iGameRam 's suggestion of KeyRemap4MacBook ended up working for me . I selected KeyRemap4MacBook because I am already using it to remap keys for me system wide . To do this I had to read the <URL> . From the reference manual I found that there is a file that enables me to add more remapping values to KeyRemap4MacBook . By going to the KeyRemap4MacBook pref pane , going to the " Misc &amp; Uninstall " tab and selecting " Open private.xml " I was able to open the file . I had to add two elements to my . The first was : This is because KeyRemap4MacBook does not ship with an app definition for Spotify . It does ship with many <URL> . I need the app definition so my keyboard keybindings only apply for Spotify and are not system wide . The second element I added was : This is the actual definition of the key bindings . The tag is supposed to be unique for every key mapping . The manual suggests prefixing the identifier with . The tag has to match an appname defined in the or shipped with KeyRemap4MacBook . The tags are supposed to contain the mappings . The <URL> has many examples on what kind of mappings that can be created . The two I have map the J and K keys to the Down and Up keys respectively . Once the file has been saved , I just needed to press the " ReloadXML " button and then my mapping appeared as an option in the menu . After selecting it everything worked as I wanted .
I figured out the key was to use with , and single quotes : In context :
Whilst you ca n't restrict the size of Time Machine backups on a Time Capsule , you can reserve space for other files and Time Machine will expand to the remaining space . Open Disk Utility and go to File → New → Blank Disk Image ... . Give the image a file name , then select the options that you would like at the bottom of the window . Here you set the size that you want to reserve for other files . The others should be set to default ( but you can have a custom name ) . Select your Time Capsule → Share as the destination for this image . Click Create . You can then store any files you wish inside this disk image and Time Machine will not intrude upon the space you selected when you created the image . You can change the size of the image later if you have sufficient space using the Resize button in Disk Utility .
Assuming this works the same as on my iPhone 3Gs , you ´ ll want to go into the photo roll ( not show an actual photo ) and then tap the " share " button in the upper right corner ( the one that looks like an arrow pointing out of a square ) - you will then be able to select up to five images and tap on " send " to send them as an e-Mail .
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
I just ran into this exact issue the other day . Try <URL> : it 's a free app that captures screenshots in both 1x and 2x simultaneously ( or , alternatively , just one or the other ) . And it 's a " true " 1x capture : it redraws at 1x rather than taking the 2x version and scaling it down . It also supports the same types of captures as the built-in Grab.app -- full screen , timed screen , selection , or window -- and you can save either to the clipboard or a file .
The great thing about a specific question is that it can be given a specific answer . For example , the OP said : " There 's an excellent Flickr app called SuprSetr which I 'd like to automatically launch each morning at 3:55 am . How ? " Answer : Save the following as ( or whatever name you prefer , but it should end with . plist ) and put it into the folder ~ / Library/LaunchAgents ( where ~ is your Home Directory ) : And then , once the file is in place , you should enter this command in Terminal : Then it will be ready to launch the app SuprSetr at 3:55 a.m. every day . ( Note : if the computer is asleep at 3:55 a.m. , it will run when the computer wakes up . ) From that specific example , once you understand that what this file does does is tell to run the Terminal command : at the hour ' 3 ' and the minute ' 55 ' , then it should be easy to extrapolate from that to other apps that you want to run at other times . Now , if you want to write these all by hand , you can do that for free , but an app like <URL> is a good choice ( I 'd recommend not buying the Mac App Store version , as the app seems to me like something that Apple is not going to like in the world of sandboxing , and you 'd get a more feature-rich app from the developer . My personal preference is for an app called <URL> which is free to try , and then the developer asks for something reasonable like US$ 10 , but there is no DRM , no license codes , but instead relies on the good ol' honor system . ( It 's my hope that people who use it will live up to the developer 's faith in that system . )
Go to your Keyboard Preferences , then Input Sources and you can see " Automatically switch to a document 's input source " . Check that .
You have to trust the developer of the app . Period . Besides code analysis there is no way to eliminate the possibility that an app does send your password somewhere . And even tools like Little Snitch wo n't help you if the app is allowed to send emails from your account . If you send an email to somebody it would just use the established connection to afterwards send another email with your password . Since the connection is encrypted you ca n't see what the app is doing . And because the whole purpose of the app is sending emails the connection is not suspicious at all . Same thing is true for all apps that need access to the internet , if you enter the password to an facebook app it could just use facebook to send a private message with your password and so on . To make it even more difficult to detect , the developer could implement it in a way that the malicious routine waits 30 days before it sends your password . And if the developer is a smart criminal ( he wrote a great app so he probably is ) he can detect testers who just fast forward their device date setting too . If the developer is smart it is nearly impossible to figure such things out without looking at the code . Entering your password somewhere is all about trust . And with all those apps from unknown developers it 's hard to figure out which app you can trust enough to give it your password . That 's the reason Twitter , among others , uses an authentication process where the app never knows your password . Having a different password for different services helps in case you have accidentally trusted an untrustworthy developer . But your email password is a little bit special because usually it can be used to gain access to almost all services you use .
Sadly , unless you have a computer with that accounts signed version of the old Facebook app , you ca n't get the old version from the iTunes Store . Deleting the app should have removed all preferences , so you can only make sure the crashes are being reported to Apple and hope the app is popular enough to get a bug fix rapidly . To restore the old app from a computer , be sure to delete the faulty app before connecting the iPad to the computer . Then add the Facebook app from the computer being careful to not update it there .
That would be difficult for the conditions described . Looking for most portable solution , I think this <URL> might do the job . <URL>
Individual apps from the App Store ca n't be passcode protected in this way without jailbreaking which you mentioned you do n't want to do . You may be able to use restrictions , but you will need to go to Settings each time to enable/disable access , and restrictions are only available for certain pre-installed apps and features .
With Airport Utility , select the time capsule ; Airport tab ; Wireless tab . In the Wireless Mode dropdown , choose ' Off ' .
You will need the same type of headset that you use with an iPhone . It will have one 3.5 mm plug that carries both the stereo audio and mic input ( aka a TRRS plug ) . Some examples are apple 's own <URL> , Sennheiser 's PX 200-II i 's , and any other iPhone headset .
end question
start question
How much RAM does the 4th Gen iPod Touch have ?
<URL> , the 4th gen iPod Touch has 256MB , not 512MB like the iPhone 4. : Breaking news : the iPod Touch has only 256 MB RAM , same Samsung part markings as iPad .
The iPhone 4S has a much more powerful processor and better graphics performance . It 's a dual core A5 processor , whereas the latest iPod Touch 4G still uses the A4 processor . You will see a better throughout system performance and have the ability to play more resource demanding games . If you 're looking for my opinion about what to buy , I recommend you buy the iPhone 4S . After all : You can always use an iPhone as an iPod , but not vice versa .
Assuming this works the same as on my iPhone 3Gs , you ´ ll want to go into the photo roll ( not show an actual photo ) and then tap the " share " button in the upper right corner ( the one that looks like an arrow pointing out of a square ) - you will then be able to select up to five images and tap on " send " to send them as an e-Mail .
I do n't know of any software that can change the volume but you could use Apple Earphones with Remote to change the volume even though the buttons do n't work . <URL> I also found this , a remote that can be used with any headphones : <URL>
No , you ca n't connect an Xbox controller to an Apple TV at this point .
The only devices with Voice Control of any form , whether pre-iOS 5 " Voice Command " or iOS 5 + " Siri " , is an iPhone 3GS or later , and the 4th Generation iPod touch . All iPhones since the 3GS and iOS 3 ( IIRC ) have Voice Command . iPhone 4/4S ' on iOS 5 or later have Siri , unless disabled then Voice Command is used instead . iPod touches do not have Siri , though the fourth generation does have Voice Command . No iPad has Voice Command nor Siri . This is true of all models and iOS versions as of this writing .
According to the <URL> on FlatpanelsHD.com , it will use 0.8 watts when in standby ( not sleep ) , and 1.9 watts when in use . To use their description , this is " ridiculously low . " Since all the device needs to do is wait for Bonjour , AirPlay , or IR signals -- and the upper number matches up with <URL> -- I 'd say this is believable . Fun perspective fact from the Apple report : It takes 30 Apple TVs , all streaming HD video , to use the same amount of power as a common 60W light bulb . You can quickly put the Apple TV to sleep by holding the play/pause button on the home screen . The cursor should be over one of the apps , not a content preview , and last I tested , this did n't work with the play/pause button of the Remote app .
Quoting from <URL> , from Apple 's website : Touch ID only allows five unsuccessful fingerprint match attempts before you must enter your passcode , and you ca n't proceed until doing so . You then get ten attempts at your passcode before the device erases , but these are counted separately from attempts to authenticate with Touch ID . This is slightly different from the other answer : After three attempts , the iPhone will present the passcode screen , but you can still have two more tries at authenticating with Touch ID . After five attempts , Touch ID is disabled until you successfully enter your passcode . Apple 's security documents do n't mention a setting to erase the device after failed Touch ID attempts , and I 'm not aware of one . I do n't believe that iOS devices would erase themselves after five unsuccessful attempts , at least not with the current version of iOS .
The iPod touch ( 5th Generation ) does not have a magnetometer ( digital compass ) sensor .
The Radio option probably refers to an accessory that Apple used to sell , the <URL> . Your iPod does not have an FM radio built in ; only the 5th and 6th Gen Nanos have that . For more information about using the iPod Radio Remote , see this <URL> .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
You seem to misunderstand virtual memory . Virtual memory is simply a mechanism that the OS uses to make it look like each program has its own , extremely large ( 4GB on 32-bit , 16 EB on 64-bit ) address space . It also provides a way for the OS to use paging , all while making it look like ( to applications ) only real RAM is being used . In short , it 's only an abstraction , and the " Virtual Memory " stats in Activity Monitor are meaningless ( for 99 % of use cases ) . You should not be worried at all about whatever number appears there , because it has nothing to do with whether " real " RAM is being used or not . About your paging stats : you gave no details on how you use your system , so it 's hard to know whether something 's wrong or not , but I would n't be alarmed by a value of 7 GB . Also note that the reported values are Page ins/outs since boot , so if you keep your laptop on all the time like me , it 's no wonder that the number accumulates after a while .
The late Mr. Jobs felt it was essential to be able to mute a cell phone without pulling it out of your pocket , and/or in the dark , with minimal light disturbance , without having to hold it up to see it , without being distracting to the reason you are muting the phone in the first place . IIRC , he actually described something to this effect at the original iPhone unveiling 29 June 2007
I do n't think there will be any with a compiler , due to iOS and App Store restrictions . The best thing on an iPhone or iPod I think would be a text editor to write code ( I use <URL> and its Dropbox syncing ) and an SSH app ( I use <URL> ) to compile and run the code . Though it might be tough to keep a connection during a commute for SSH . If you need a computer to SSH to , you could use an Amazon EC2 app to create and use a box on the go . I have n't done that yet , so I do n't have a good recommendation , but it 's on my list of things to try . Also , if you have an iPad , <URL> is a fantastic code editor , but it 's not available on iPhone or iPod .
Yes - I had to do this for the same devices : 2G to 4G . I think I just synced the new iPod Touch ( there is no such thing as an iTouch ) with iTunes , and everything went over , but I might have had to restore a backup from the old to the new .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Free Allows you to make completely free phone calls using your Google Voice account . There are ads , but hey , it 's free ! I 've had no trouble with it at all and I highly recommend it .
To obtain a semi precise GPS position , you need at least three satellites ( but usually four or more is required to obtain a decent degree of precision ) to triangulate your position . The more you have the better the accuracy . A GPS receiver needs to power its antenna , and constantly process the signal sent by each satellite . Remember that satellites are continually transmitting messages . ( 50 bits/sec as far as I can remember ) Satellites emit messages specifying their exact location , trajectory , speed , the time each message was sent and the rough location of all the other satellites in the constellation . By comparing this info to the time the signal was received a distance from the satellite to the receiver can be determined . When you have three or more satellites you can triangulate your location in three dimensions relative to the positions of the satellites . The iPhone ( and other phones ) use A-GPS , which is designed to ( believe it or not ) among other things , make the GPS work better in poor reception areas ( cities ? ) and reduce the amount of information that the receiver needs from the satellites , thus saving battery power from the Antenna . The parts of the GPS signal about location , speed and orbital trajectory usually drop out first when in low reception , that 's where A-GPS fits in , feeding that info for every satellite in that part of the world to the phone , from a central database via the mobile network . Now the phone just has to search for the short timing signals from each satellite , which are easier to receive than the other parts of the transmission . When all that information is calculated , an algorithm ( there are a few as far as I know ) is used to compute the position of the actual receiver . Now add to that the fact that GPS messages are encoded and that satellites broadcast the messages at about 50 bits per second . And that each message is really a subset of frames with time , position , error correction , etc , etc. . There are more factors involver , but for the purpose of making this simple , the GPS 's cpu must constantly use the radio ( already power hungry ) to capture the signal ( which may be weak ! ) for usually four or more ( sometimes up to 20 ! ) satellites that are constantly sending packages , then it must decode and process them , perform calculations to analyze the results and in some cases draw a map or feed an application with the info . As you can see , this sounds easy but it 's not . There 's a lot of CPU processing involved in the back ( plus the antenna 's power ! ) So the GPS power consumption usually comes from the real time nature of the operation . Powering the antenna , listening for information and processing it , uses power , more than just a standby radio antenna ( the phone ) waiting for a call . Plus the A-GPS uses also the phone 's radio and ( if available ) Wi-Fi networks to determine its location ( and use less GPS info ) , which means , more power is used at the same time . The <URL> page has a lot of detailed information if you want to get the specifics and/or dive into more GPS geekery , including the math and error correction stuff .
As I 'm not part of the engineering team I ca n't tell you why they 've resited it , but in the iPod Touch 4 they 'd moved the antenna toward the front of the display , rather than toward the back as they had with the previous generations . I 'd imagine they 've tried it in both locations but due to the way they 've slimmed it and moved other components around they probably found that it was a better trade off to have the window back in place . <URL> . I imagine as soon as iFixit has the new one we 'll see some more information about why the window is back in relation to the other components .
I 'm assuming you 're talking about AirPlay Screen Mirroring from a Mac to an Apple TV . In that case , yes , you are loosing signal quality from compression-before-transmission and decompression-after-reception . In particular , the audio part of the AirPlay Screen Mirroring is compressed using the AAC-ELD codec to ensure low-latency sound encoding . However , there is a signal loss involved .
Normally , to shut down an iPod touch : Hold down the Sleep/Wake button on top of the device . ( NOT the Home button on the front . ) Use the <URL> link below to find the manual for your device . Then " slide to power off " when prompted . I suspect you may be holding down the Home button , which invokes the Voice Command . From <URL> : How to restart Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears . Drag the slider to turn your device completely off . After the device turns off , press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo . You can <URL> for iPod touch .
end question
start question
stream ipad audio to other devices ?
The easiest way is to hook up an Airport Express with audio cables to your external multimedia player , or Apple TV . Then you can stream iTunes directly to either of these devices - the functionality is built-in to iOS 4 and works awesome !
Yes , it is possible however Apple seems to have gone to great lengths to try to prevent you from doing this . Especially if you meant without the use of any sort of app on the PC at all , as if it were simply a disk drive in explorer . That , I believe , is not possilble/practical without first jailbreaking your phone . If you do not have iOS 8 and you have not jailbroken your phone , I would suggest that you do while you still are able to and while it is a simple " one-button " process . While Pangu recently released a jailbreak for iOS 8 , it is reportedly still a bit buggy so I would wait a bit if you have iOS 8 . You would jailbreak your iPhone by downloading the pangu app on your PC from <URL> However , if you do n't want to jailbreak but you do n't want to use iTunes , there are a number of different " replacements " for iTunes . Many people even go so far as to completely remove iTunes from their system as well . Media Monkey is a rather full-featured replacement for iTunes that can do a number of things that iTunes can or will not . I personally liked MM when I was using it a year or two ago . They support Android as well . You can download it at <URL> Another option is called iFunbox . They recently revamped their software but luckily they deigned to keep the older version , calling it iFunbox classic . Here 's a quote from their website about it . " With iFunBox Classic included , you can still manage files on your iDevice with no jailbreak needed . Here 's some basic features : • Safe ipa package installation and easy access to files and resources in app sandbox . Learn More • Use your device as portable USB disk with hi-speed transmission beyond 20MB/s on iPhone and iPad . • Import and export songs , videos , photos and ringtones with iFunBox quick toolbox . You can find iFunbox at <URL> Hope this helps .
You ca n't at least for now , hope Apple adds more functionality to Mission Control . Although you can move all windows of a particular app between spaces ...
The settings are stored in : prints . On my installation the last four columns ( , , , and ) are for applications that were added after the dialog was shown and for applications that I added by dropping them to the list in System Preferences . contains a list of applications for which the warning dialog has been shown : I could n't figure out how to actually allow access for assistive devices for an application though . I tried for example running these commands : I also tried restarting to apply the changes and setting the last four columns to .
have a look at <URL> . Its not expensive and it has " Screens " and " Frames " function which both should to be doing what you need .
You can use iPhoto to add to a Photostream from your Mac . I have Aperture using mine so I can not fully test it with iPhoto without switching it off in Aperture . But is should work the same way by importing the images into iPhoto which also allows you to organise them . And then using the Share feature to share to iCloud . ( photostream ) The share with iCloud startup dialogue in iPhoto : You can have multiple iPhoto libraries and open any of them as the Library to use by holding down the option/alt ⌥ key when Launching iPhoto . You should get a dialogue similar to this : This means you should be able to import a SD card to it 's own Library Although it maybe easier to just organise within iPhoto and a singe Library When selecting an image in Finder . The Share contextual menu does not offer up iCloud . So it looks like no with Finder at the moment
How Daisy Chaining Works Daisy chaining is connecting multiple devices in series , as in this diagram : Note that this shows some disk drives , but they could be any Thunderbolt devices . Each device in the chain ( except for the last ) needs two Thunderbolt ports -- one to connect to the downstream devices ( those closer in the chain to the Mac ) and one for the upstream ( to pass the data on to the devices further along the chain ) . Additionally , each chain supports a maximum of six devices , and there can only be one non-Thunderbolt display , and it must be at the end of the chain . Making Your Situation Feasible Because of these limitations , you wo n't be able to connect the devices you have using Thunderbolt alone . Unfortunately Apple 's ethernet adapter does n't have multiple ports for passthrough , so you can only use it at the end of a chain . If your displays were Thunderbolt based , it would be do-able , but it sounds like they 're not . The best suggestion I can give you is to use the HDMI port on your Retina MBP to connect one of your monitors ( this will work if it has either a DVI or HDMI input ) , however this limits the resolution to 1920x1200 , so for hi-res panels ( like those found on some 27 " and 30 " displays ) , you wo n't be getting the full benefit of the display . If you 're still stuck , there are USB 3 ethernet adapters available now that will do full gigabit . There might be a bit more overhead than the Thunderbolt adapter , but it 's better than nothing .
It 's not possible to have group call with Facetime Audio at this time . Apple used to have this feature in iChat but removed it because it was a poor experience . There are other third-party apps that have this type of feature and those might fit your needs . EDIT : Adding additional info from the discussion in comments . The date of that <URL> was June 2014 and was talking about pre-release iOS 8 ( which came out in Sept 2014 ) . Maybe it was available in the beta , I do n't know . Like you , the articles I read all came out around the same time and it looks like they 're all using the same wording leading me to believe they 're all using the same source . I could be wrong but I ca n't find anything on Apple 's product or support pages indicating how to do this .
The new iPad , like all iPads , have a combined audio input/output jack , like the iPhone and newer MacBooks . The Genius was correct : Griffin cable should have worked . If it did n't , either the cable or the iPad was faulty . One other possibility is that it was the software . This is n't very likely , but it 's possible that the software you were using had some sort of compatibility issue with the new iPad .
Yes - lightning carries decent amount of power . Crossed wires could short out a device . MagSafe - worse - more power , less room for error . The only upside there is the MagSafe in side of things is a bit more robust since it handles more power and if you blow the MagSafe on the Mac , it 's a relatively inexpensive repair . Fixing the phone connector would be far more costly . That being said , the change of damage is low and if you have lots of cables and can make money on them , the risk might be worth it even if you damage things and have repair bills .
Airfoil from <URL> can stream audio from the Mac to many other devices , including iOS . It will capture any audio running on your system , either from a specific input ( e.g. Mic ) , application , or the entire system audio . Airfoil Speakers Touch Airfoil Speakers Touch runs on iPhones , iPods Touch , and iPads running iOS 4.0 or higher . Use it to send audio to your iOS device when connected to your local network ! Airfoil Speakers Touch works exclusively with Airfoil for Mac and Airfoil for Windows .
I ordered a cheap Mini DisplayPort to HDMI cable from eBay ( less than $ 5 , including transport ) and it works perfectly , including sound . The only thing needed is to configure the audio output source to TV instead of the internal speakers ( you only need to do this once ; after that , it will remember the setting and switch automatically once connected to the TV ) . To change the audio source , option click on the speaker icon on the menu bar , go to the Output tab and choose your TV .
When you Facetime , the caller chooses either your phone number or the email address associated with your Apple ID . If it chooses the email address , it will ring both your computer , and your iPhone ( as well as any other devices you have logged in with that Apple ID such as an iPad ) , and you may answer on either device . If the caller chooses your phone number , then just your phone will ring . In this case , the caller could use this to choose which device to ring you on . As I 'm sure you are already are aware , the device must be connected to wifi in order for it to ring ( I believe there are cellular company outside the US that allow Facetime over the air as well ) , otherwise it will just ring and ring on the caller side without ever ringing you .
When you set up your export settings and clicked ' Next ... ' , a standard save sheet appears prompting you for a location to save the file . Wherever you selected as a save location will be wherever the file is . Once exporting is complete , the notification has a Show button which reveals the location in Finder . If you forgot the location and missed the notification , you can still reveal the location . Select the project in the Library viewer under the event where it is located . Show the Share Inspector using the button on the inspector toolbar . Click the reveal arrow next to the shared media , then select Reveal in Finder .
On your iPad device tap on Settings > Store . Under where it says Automatic Downloads , make sure that Apps is set to Off . This setting keeps apps from automatically downloading new purchases made on other devices .
If I understand correctly , you want to backup your iOS devices to a drive other than your Mac 's ( because they have small SSDs ) . It <URL> to backup multiple Macs to a single Time Capsule . Sadly though , it seems that Time Capsule does n't support backing up iOS devices ( yet . I really do hope this becomes an option soon , and <URL> ) . Here are ways you can make sure those 50GB in your iPhones do n't end up in your Mac 's SSDs though . Photos In terms of pictures , iOS8 should have you backed up with <URL> . If enabled , all your pictures and video will automatically be stored in iCloud , which gives you 5GB of free storage ( or 20GB for $ 1/mo , 200GB for $ 4/mo ) . If that is not your jazz though , you can always sync to iPhoto , but <URL> to an external hard drive . iPhoto stores all your photos a single archive , the iPhoto Library on your folder , which you can move as you please . When iPhoto opens , it will automatically look for the iPhoto Library where it last saw it , but if it ca n't find it it will ask you were it is , and keep working as if nothing had happened . Backups iTunes backups might be a little more tricky , but it seems to be possible to move the folder where iTunes stores its backups to an external hard drive , and then trick iTunes into backing up there . I have n't tried doing this myself , but here 's a <URL> that claims you can do it and outlines the steps to follow , both for Windows and OSX . The instructions for OSX are n't too bad , as long as you are n't too scared of using the application ( ) . In a nutshell : Copy to a new location , say . This directory has a folder called , which is where iTunes stores backups for mobile devices . Note 1 : is an alias computers use for your home folder . Note 2 : Your folder is hidden by default . You can open it in Finder by opening typing in . Remove/rename . We wo n't need it anymore . Create a symbolic link to the new location for in your external hard drive . This is basically like an alias in the old location of to its new location . To do so open and type in If you launch iTunes now it should follow the symbolic link and go on with business as usual , not knowing that in fact it 's now working with a folder that 's on an external hard drive . You 'll need to have the hard drive connected to backup , Hope it helps !
You can send a notification from the command line with this <URL> utility . Getting the notification data off a site can be fairly involved , requires at least some decent scripting and/or web coding knowledge , and is probably a better question to pose on <URL> . The basic outline of such a script would be : Open a site Send login data if necessary Scrape the page for the data you need ( unless you 're lucky and the site has a JSON or XML API , in which case you can parse that ) Send the appropriate data via the terminal-notify utility This sort of thing may be more common in the future though , as Safari 6 and Mountsin Lion add support for <URL> , which will allow a site to display notifications , when Safari has an open tab for that site . Support for this needs to be coded into the site however , so it 's not really an end user solution I 'm afraid .
Try the <URL> . While it 's not free , it is cheap : $ 6.99 . See reviews <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . Below is the description from the product page , and a screenshot : Boom is a simple volume booster and system-wide equalizer that lets you boost the volume of your Mac and your music files . Using Boom is simple . You know the ways to change the volume of your Mac . Boom provides the same easy access to boost sound . From the videos on YouTube , Hulu , your favorite music playing on iTunes , to voice applications like Skype , iChat and your favorite Games , Boom can boost them all . [ ... ] ( emphasis above is mine ) I use Boom on my own MacBook Air and it does a reasonable job of increasing the internal speaker volume beyond what I was getting with the built-in volume controls at maximum . The graphic equalizer is an added bonus , letting me tweak the sound I get from these tiny speakers so it sounds a bit better for music .
In iPhoto , turn Photo Stream off then on . Go to Preferences > Photo Stream . Uncheck " Enable Photo Stream " . Close the preferences window . Click Photo Stream in the left-hand navigation pane and confirm there are no photos . Turn Photo Stream back on in preferences ( check " Enable Photo Stream " ) . After a few seconds , iPhoto will start to download all the photos again . Depending on the number of photos , and your bandwidth , it may take awhile .
Not really , or at least not to the same level that Windows does .
end question
start question
What is the explorer.exe equivalent in OS X ?
This is a very wide reaching question , but to answer the central theme , the rough equivalent of explorer.exe on Windows is the application . Finder is the only application you can not remove from your dock , mainly because it is the finder that runs the dock etc , much like explorer.exe runs the taskbars etc in Windows ( I think I got that right for windows ) You can kill the finder , and it will automatically re-spawn . The equivalent of Task Manager would be as a graphical app , and of course you have a fully featured Unix command line environment in , which allows you to interact with processes using all sorts of commands , for example : ( lists active processes ) ( send interupt request 9 , or terminate with extreme prejudice to the process number 243 ) There is no Registry in OS X , which is nice because that was a horrible idea ( in my opinion ) , but settings and preferences etc are commonly stored in files that reside in either the system or an individual users folder , which I suppose could be analogous to the windows \ system or user \ application data folders in Windows .
Updated at May 2015 , with current solutions . Free solutions <URL> - Successor to MacFUSE <URL> Last updated 2010 , pretty much abandoned in favour of the Paid version , Tuxera , unless you want to build from source . Last version linked from <URL> Paid solutions <URL> <URL> MacFuse is abandonware , and has n't been updated since 2009 .
IMO , if you have a UNIX background with previous experience with Emacs , it might make sense to " carry it forward " onto OS X . As a new text editor , I personally do n't think it makes sense . Yes , it is a fully capable text editor and it can do everything , but as you 've said , it does not integrate well into the OS , which for me is a major hurdle . I use vim on OS X because its my editor of choice on Linux ( where I do much of the work that earns me money ) , however with that said , I 've started learning and using BBEdit .
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
If you 're just looking for the Unicode versions of Mac OS X keys , you can use <URL> to copy and paste them from the text box . More generally , Mac OS X provides a pane to insert special characters . You 'll typically find it under Edit - > Special Characters in any program that takes text input . The Command key symbol can be found under Symbols - > Technical Symbols . To insert the character , select it and click " Insert " . If you 're really hardcore and are looking for a way to type the character by entering the Unicode hex code , this is possible : Go into System Preferences - > Language &amp; Text - > Input Sources and check " Unicode Hex Input " 2 . From the input source selector in the menu bar , select " Unicode Hex Input " 3 . To enter a Unicode character , hold down option and type the 4-digit hex code for the character and it will be inserted . In this case , it would be option +2318 .
Harv , This is not the answer you want to hear . I went with the Brother printer/scanner models because it was clear that the HP drivers that they supply to Apple often do not support network scanning ( there may be a few exceptions ) . The Brother drivers do . The other recommendation I have seen is to use the drivers that come with the OS , not the installable ones . In some cases , it seems that the scan works when the installables are not present . Also , if the printer has SMB sharing , that sometimes needs to be turned on ( usually only available on the higher end models with hard drives ) . ~ Hilton
<URL> is an app that can notify when apps begin using microphone or webcam privileges . I do n't know how it 's implemented under the hood , though .
The easiest way is to install from <URL> and follow the provided instructions . Example output : Once you are done , you can create your own scripts under .
I find the best way to install Node.js is to use <URL> , which allows you to install and manage multiple versions of Node . I use Homebrew for pretty much everything else , but Node is easier to use through nvm , since it does n't use global folders - everything is in your home directory , and you can easily switch between Node versions . To install ( check the website for the latest version ) : There are some specific notes about OS X on the web site , please make sure to read through those , e.g. regarding the use of the file . After that , the function will allow you to specify which version of node to install and use . In the simplest case , you run which will install the stable version of Node.js .
The best way to do this is to create a chroot jail for the user . I 'll clean up the answer here when I get home but I posted the solution on my blog . <URL> Below are most of the instruction from the above post . First , you should create the new user in Workgroup Admin and either assign them access privileges for SSH via Server Admin or assign them to a group that has SSH access privileges . Further discussion is below . From the Terminal , start off right . Every additional new user added will then be something along the lines of the following . Every folder it the path to the chroot jail must be owned by . I do n't think it matters what group the folder is in . What I did above was to backup change ownership of the root directory to change permissions of the root directory to 755 create a chroot folder create a user folder inside the chroot folder create a folder inside the user folder that user can modify set ownership and permissions Now to edit to the following . This creates a chroot jail that when the user logs in will drop them into the folder , in that folder is a folder they can add things to . If you want to create a Group in Workgroup Admin for ' Chroot Users ' then add the new users that you created in Workgroup Admin to the Group you wo n't have to keep editing the file . Instead of the above , add the following . Make sure you add the ' Chroot Users ' group to the SSH access ACL in Server Admin . To test whether the above is working , issue the following from the terminal .
In a word , no . If you are concerned with the contents of your machine being compromised should the machine be stolen a better bet may be to encrypt your drive with FileVault ( assuming you are or intend to upgrade to using Lion ) . Even if the firmware passwords was irreversible , it would not stop someone simply taking your disk out and reading another way . The only benefit I can see is preventing a theif from being able to ever use the mcahine he just stole , but frankly this wo n't help stop your laptop from being stolen in the first place , although it probably would result in it getting binned if it was , rather than re-used and potentially identified at a later date via it 's serial number etc. .
Automator You can use OS X 's Automator.app to quickly rename batches of images . The Actions you want are : Get Selected Finder Items Rename Finder Items Using this approach you can rename files , change the case , or append/remove specific parts of the original file name . You can create <URL> using Automator to make the whole process a single drag-and-drop . Alternatively you can <URL> to rename any image dropped into a folder . To learn more about using Automator , see Apple 's <URL> .
You can use Ctrl + F2 , which moves the focus to the symbol in the menu bar . Then use the arrow keys to move around , or just type the start of a menu name to highlight it . With a menu name highlighted , hit Space to expand it . In an open menu , you can type the start of a menu item to highlight it . Once highlighted , press Space again to " click " it . So , to get to " Save for Web &amp; Devices " in Photoshop , you could press Ctrl + F2 , F , Space , Enter , S , ↓ until you focus " Save for Web &amp; Devices " , then Space . Of course , the built-in keyboard shortcut for that option is much easier to type : ⌥ + ⇧ + ⌘ + S.
According to <URL> , the iMac5 ,1 was released in 2006 , and is thus not on the <URL> . Whether Mavericks can be hacked to run on your machine is a different question .
Bluetooth MIDI in Yosemite ( and up ) Only You can not use Bluetooth MIDI in OS X Mavericks as it is not supported . Bluetooth MIDI was implemented in Yosemite . For more info , see <URL> but I see nothing that actually states it can not function on Mavericks . It is very unlikely that you are going to see a statement from Apple stating that an OS three versions back specifically does n't support a feature that was introduced in an OS that one version back . Features that are listed are what 's supported , not listed as to what 's not .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
Unless you 're planning on running an extremely heavy loaded ftp server ( which the mini wo n't be able to handle anyway ) the built in FTP Server should be enough . Pure-ftpd is a classic in the unix world and I 'm sure you can of course make that run under OSX , but it does n't have a " UI " , it 's all command line . ( But very easy to configure anyway ) .
should do the trick . The flag specifies any application you want , so it 's applicable to any number of situations , including ones where TextEdit is n't the default editor . Other relevant options opens in the default editor ( i.e. if you use BBEdit , TextMate , etc. ) will open the file specifically in TextEdit
You will find a nice answer over at sister site <URL> . It involves a terminal program called <URL> which comes with lot 's of options and I know at least of one support file for extending its capabilities to print Ruby code . EDIT : I just noticed the " clipboard " part of the question . The clipboard content can be accessed from the command line and fed to using as mentioned in Matteo answer .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
end question
start question
How to stream video with subtitles from computer to Ipad ?
Looks like VLC Player is the best option for you right now in regards to subtitles on iOS devices . The site <URL> states : " VLC also includes support for subtitles . Some video formats natively support subtitles while for others , you need a separate . sub file . If you need to add a separate . sub file , name it similar to the video filename , and add it to VLC for iOS via any of the file transfer means described above . VLC will automatically associate the two and show you subtitles . " VLC , on Mac , Windows , and iOS , is as flexible as it gets when it comes to video players , so you ca n't go wrong with it . It also allows you to wirelessly transfer video from your PC to the app , allowing you to bi-pass iTunes and WMA , which is always a plus ;) . Hope that helps !
Drag the photos from the album to your photo stream . Careful though ; I did this and ca n't find a way to undo what I 've added to my photo stream !
Looks like VLC Player is the best option for you right now in regards to subtitles on iOS devices . The site <URL> states : " VLC also includes support for subtitles . Some video formats natively support subtitles while for others , you need a separate . sub file . If you need to add a separate . sub file , name it similar to the video filename , and add it to VLC for iOS via any of the file transfer means described above . VLC will automatically associate the two and show you subtitles . " VLC , on Mac , Windows , and iOS , is as flexible as it gets when it comes to video players , so you ca n't go wrong with it . It also allows you to wirelessly transfer video from your PC to the app , allowing you to bi-pass iTunes and WMA , which is always a plus ;) . Hope that helps !
I 've always involved the carrier , but I do n't know if you have to involve VZW in the switch . If you have a shared data plan , then you will certainly want to get them involved to ensure you do n't make a stand alone plan when the old SIM hits the new device . I 've had no issues with exchanging a device and not had to pay the fee for enrolling the new device since it simply replaced the old one . If you are on a month to month plan and do n't mind re-paying the activation charge , you could simply set up the new device and let the old device 's plan expire . Much depends on if you use the device to set up the account or want to have verizon enter the details into their system as the different types of accounts have different manners of adding the new device to the plan .
As for your question , Is there anything new that has n't been done before , then one could be generous and say that the no-account-required and it-just-works is quite nice , as is the elegant use of front or rear cameras and the ability to switch between them , and the automatic landscape/portrait modes . That 's quite slick . But it 's not a competition-killer . On the whole , Facetime is the typical Apple feature -- very polished , but a limited feature-set , and only available to users on the exact same platform ( in this case , only iPhone 4 's , iPad 2 's and Macs ) . That alone limits the usefulness of the app quite a bit . For general-purpose video calling , there are general-purpose apps like Skype which do it better , and which even work over 3G ( if you 're lucky ) , and which are n't limited to specific Apple-only devices . I 'd recommend Skype over Facetime any day . ( Notice I did n't comment on the revolutionary issue either . )
Yes of course you can turn it into a specialized device for engineering and homework . For project management tools , look at the Omni group , and then their competition . I do n't know if there are <URL> , but I would expect so . Have you searched ? Python and C can be developed natively on the device if you jailbreak it . I
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
I ca n't find any playback app on the iPad with the exact 1.7 ratio ... However , <URL> has 1.5 and 1.75 playback ratios . They even say in their site blurb that it 's good for fast reviewing of lectures . Reviews are excellent and integration with Mail and Dropbox is there , as well as a very comprehensive codec list
Depends a lot on what file formats you 've got and what sort of quality you 're expecting . If your library is mostly h. 264 format ( typically mp4 , m4v , and most mkv files ) then the Apple TV should work pretty well for you . Anything in an mkv container will need to be converted to an mp4/m4v container , but that can be done losslessly most of the time ( i.e. no transcoding of video , just extracting the component streams and muxing them into an mp4 container - you may need to transcode the audio , but that 's easy and quick to do ) . If you have a lot of non-h .264 stuff ( i.e. anything in . avi , DIVX , etc. ) , you 'll need to transcode it , which means losing some quality and can use up a fair bit of CPU power . You can transcode ahead of time using a tool like <URL> , or you can try transcoding on-the-fly , which requires less planning ahead , but for HD files you 'll need a pretty beefy CPU , and the process is pretty haphazard . You can view the steps for doing that in my answer to <URL> Transcoding ahead of time also has the advantage of being able to use iTunes as a library , so you can access the files directly from the Apple TV . This applies to other files as well - if you can get them in iTunes compatible format ( basically any mp4/m4v as above ) , your life will be a lot easier , as you can access them directly from the Apple TV , rather than going to your computer and streaming them to the Apple TV . Finally , if you were n't aware of this already , you will need a computer running iTunes on at all times you want to access your library , unless you 're playing files from the iTunes Store or Netflix .
No , if they are both on the same network , there is nothing special you need to do .
After doing some research , I finally found where they were located , and then figured a quick way to get back to them . The files themselves are stored in hashed folders under . I then created a Smart Folder using this path , and then selecting Kind as " Image " . This then provides me with a directory with just the images in Photo Stream , outside of their folders . I also verified that this was working on a machine where iPhoto did n't have Photo Stream enabled itself , the only Photo Stream part was enabled in System Preferences . Therefore , it was syncing on its own , and not with a relation to iPhoto having to launch to trigger it . You ca n't into a smart folder , but it looks like I can use some actions with it it . I moreso wanted a direct folder , so I could copy stuff out quickly .
No , not straight from the iPad . The Camera Roll is like a smart folder : it contains all items that were stored as pictures on the iPad from apps . You ca n't move pictures from there to another album , just like you ca n't move songs from the iTunes library to playlist . However , if you import the pictures on your computer , then delete it from the iPad ( you did n't specify your OS there , but assuming Mac OS X : with iPhoto , it simply asks you whether you 'd like to do so after the import is over ) , syncing the pictures that were in the Camera Roll back onto the iPad will make them appear only in the albums you 've configured on your computer , not in the Roll anymore ( since they were not added from the iPad ) .
So far it seems the best way to do it is to run the following script ( Windows 7 ) periodically : This will leave me with a folder full of symlinks ( ) , neatly organized in subfolders , which I will sync with my iDevices .
There is an extension that runs on Firefox that can easily snag that video . I use Firefox 20.0 with <URL> It does not work with Safari , but I 've tested the Facebook link for you and it will get you the entire 2 GB video file if you have a fast network connection . You will get an unsigned extension warning when installing the add-on , since the video downloader is n't signed by the developer . You also need flash player since it grabs the flash file .
Additionally to the OPlayer app suggested by @Jason Salaz I 've found several other apps that can connect to Windows smb shares : <URL> $ 14.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 2.39 <URL> $ 15.99 Unfortunately I could n't find any free apps .
In iPhoto , turn Photo Stream off then on . Go to Preferences > Photo Stream . Uncheck " Enable Photo Stream " . Close the preferences window . Click Photo Stream in the left-hand navigation pane and confirm there are no photos . Turn Photo Stream back on in preferences ( check " Enable Photo Stream " ) . After a few seconds , iPhoto will start to download all the photos again . Depending on the number of photos , and your bandwidth , it may take awhile .
Should be possible with <URL> , but I 've only personally used it to send audio between two Macs . They have a Windows version as well , though .
I know relatively easy and free way that I will share Subtitles have to be converted to SRT format . You may do that with <URL> . Then I 'm using <URL> to convert to h. 264 with soft subtitles . <URL> . Alternatively you may use <URL> to convert video without reencoding ( in case it 's already in h. 264 ) to save time and after that add subtitles with <URL> . You may try to import SSA subtitles ( I do n't have such on hand now to check if SSA will work with Subler so please report back if it will )
I just tried it with a QuickTime movie and was able to run the exported . ppt in PowerPoint as well . But this is probably no guarantee that it will work in all cases given the multitude of video formats , codecs , drivers etc. . So in your case you probably get the best results if you start with a specific video format/codec on the Mac side ( QuickTime and either MPEG4 or H. 264 would be my first choice ) do a test run yourself , maybe involving various target PCs ( if this is a scenario you have to be able to work with ) stick to the setup once you have proven it to work
" Available " , " supported " , and " will work " are three very different things . The officially compatible video cards for the original ( 1,1 ) Mac Pro are : NVIDIA GeForce 7300 GT ATI Radeon X1900 XT NVIDIA Quadro FX 4500 ( and family ) NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT These are the only cards that are supported in an original Mac Pro . Unfortunately , most are not particularly available any more . Apple no longer sells any of these cards , except the Quadro FX family ( which is super-expensive and not consumer-oriented ) . I believe most , if not all , of the above officially supported cards are all Apple-specific variants . There are various non-Apple versions of the above , which may or may not work in a Mac Pro , depending on firmware compatibility ( sometimes it is possible to program a Mac-compatible version of the firmware into a non-Apple card 's non-volatile flash , thus enabling the use of a non-Apple version in the Mac Pro ) . But the bottom line is that it is not really possible to purchase these cards anymore ( except for the super-expensive Quadro FX and maybe a small quantity of the others that can be found used on Amazon or eBay ) . That said , there is at least one other card that is currently ( as of Summer 2011 ) available that will work in an original Mac Pro . Although it is not listed as being officially compatible ( and therefore not officially supported ) , there are numerous accounts in the Apple online store from customers who have reported that the <URL> works just fine out-of-the-box in their original Mac Pros . I too purchased one from a local Apple Store and installed it in my original Mac Pro ( running OS X 10.6.7 ) , so I can state for a fact that this card does work just fine , and it does n't require any hacking ( no drivers to install , no firmware to be flashed ) -- it just works right out of the box . It also performs quite a bit better than the older officially compatible cards . It also works just fine in Windows under Boot Camp ( after downloading and installing the Boot Camp drivers from the ATI/AMD website ) . The only caveat ( and it is a very minor one ) is that the installation instructions that accompany the card deviate somewhat from what is actually required in the original Mac Pro , due to minor variations between the internals of the older Mac Pros and the newer ones . For instance , the instructions mention sliding a PCI cage ( to move a retention bracket ) , but the bracket is not present , and the cage does n't move in the original Mac Pro ( each PCI slot has it 's own small retention " clip " instead ) . Also , the power connector on the motherboard is in a different location in the original Mac Pro . If you do some research , you will find various other reports of users having success with other cards ( especially various ATI Radeon variants ) . Oftentimes , it involves updating the firmware ( flashing ) . However , the Radeon HD 5770 is the only currently available card I am aware of that will work out of the box .
end question
start question
What are minimum specs for a MacBook to develop iOS apps ?
Today , I 'd go with either a 15 " or 17 " MacBook Pro . They would allow you to work with the iPad simulator at its native resolution . It 's a bit too big to run full-size on the 13 " models , so I always end up running it at half size , which is less than ideal . Even if you 're not planning to develop for the iPad right now , I 'd still plan the hardware purchase around that possibility . The likelihood that you 'll do iOS development and never build for the iPad is pretty low . Beyond the simulator issues , I like to have the largest screen possible when I 'm programming . I have a 13 " MacBook Pro , but I connect it to a 24 " monitor when I 'm at my desk . If you 're like me , the 17 " would be ideal , if you do n't want to have a second screen . However , Apple is holding a Mac-focused special event tomorrow , and it 's never a good idea to buy a Mac this close to one of those events . The entire laptop line is due for updates , and there has been ( unconfirmed ) speculation that any new models may run at higher screen resolutions , especially on the smaller end of the range .
I think this Apple support article has the list you 're looking for . It is updated as changes are made : <URL> And StartCom is on there .
Before Family Sharing , you could take someone else 's iOS device and sign in to the app store with your account and download all/any apps you choose . At that point , your password was needed to update , but signing out did n't delete the apps or in any other way prevent them from working . Let 's set aside in-app purchases for the time being . Family sharing changes this in that when someone joins the " family " - their Apple ID is used to download and update other family member apps . They do not show up in your purchases , they show up as the other named family member 's purchase . All that changes is the password needed to install and update . When you as a family member remove yourself from the plan - you get a warning that lists what will happen and basically , you immediately lose access to the purchases , photos , calendars and other items that were shared in the plan . Rejoining the family would then let you re-download and re-sync the items . You 'll probably want to find a better way to use the family service than routinely joining and leaving or skip the family share and use the older method of signing in to multiple devices which does n't immediately remove/revoke the items .
Clearly : No . The simulator does not offer hardware access ( gyroscope , accelerometer , etc. ) and also , you just do n't get the feeling for your App , which is very important in iOS development . You ca n't use the gestures and you do n't know how it reacts if you work with it . so it is definitely not advisable . I tried to use the simulator in the beginning , but some frameworks do n't even run on it .
Is it mandatory to have an MFi device , to download an app for the Mfi device ? No . For instance you can download the <URL> apps and use them in demo mode without owning or attaching the hardware MFi device they interface with . You keep asking specifically about MFi devices , but there are also a number of non-MFi devices that connect through the headphone jack , such as credit card readers ( square , intuit , and others ) and heart rate monitors ( 60beat . com ) . So far Apple has allowed many of these devices and apps to be developed and sold in the app store , although they prefer people use the MFi program , it 's not always necessary .
What I ended up doing was purchasing the used mac from a 3rd party vendor , that offered a basic 1 year warranty for no additional charge .
I found the direct download links for . ipsw files from <URL> . The links below are for build 11A465 of iOS 7.0 : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Should you be a reviewer or get lucky with an early delivery , the 5c and 5s firmware update - build 11A470a of iOS 7.0.1 are below courtesy of an <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , I 'd kindly remind people to not be greedy - downloading all the builds means someone else looking for one build might be prevented from getting a download .
The iOS version of Sparrow has just been released , and it contains this functionality . In the settings for email accounts you can set up aliases . You can also set up a custom signature and SMTP server for each alias : When composing a message , by default it will be sent from your default alias . If you want to change this , tap the " From " in the top center and you will be able to select which alias you want this message to come from : Sparrow is available in the <URL> .
Being a programmer myself , I think screen size and amount of memory are the most important factors to consider . The processors and graphic chips of all current MacBooks will be sufficient for this kind of work , although the MacBook Airs come standard with an Intel i5 processor , which can be upgraded to an i7 for a small price . Memory : MacBook Airs come standard with 4 GB , which I think is not enough . They all have the option to upgrade to 8 GB though . The 13 " MacBook Pros come with 8 GB standard , with 16 GB as an option . The 15 " MacBook Pros have 16 GB standard . For screen size , I like to have lots of it to do development work . Unfortunately , Apple stopped selling 17 " laptops some years ago . On the other hand , almost all MacBook Pros now come with a Retina display , which means they have a much higher resolution for the same screen size . If you are comfortable working with smaller font sizes , you can switch to a " more space " option in the display settings , which gives you lots of screen real estate . You can choose between 13 " and 15 " MacBook Pros , but the 15 " models are Apple 's top of the line , so they might be costlier than what you 're looking for . The MacBook Airs do n't have Retina displays , and they come in 11 " and 13 " models . A last point to look out for is disk size . All MacBooks , except for the 13 " MacBook Pro without Retina display , come with an SSD . But with the cheaper models it 's just 128 GB . On all MacBook Air models you have the option to pick up to 512 GB , and up to 1 TB on the MacBook Pros . I suggest you go to the <URL> for your country , and customize a MacBook Air or MacBook Pro to your liking and within your budget . Welcome to the Apple development world !
Allow me to recommend you the <URL> ones . You have an " extreme RE " ( which I believe you wo n't need ) and the Pro , which is arguably one of the fastest and most secure drives so far . I 'm sure you can google for comparisons with other drives but I 've installed a various numbers of SSDs ( albeit not only in Macbooks ) and the OWC ones are what I 've chosen for me . Jeff Atwood himself made a comparison ( but he didnt include the OWC at the time ) , which you can find <URL> . Do n't forget to read through the comments , as there 's value in there too . I 'd say that excluding the OWC ( which I prefer ) , the Crucial C300 should be the next in line .
Realistically , you need an Intel Mac , the cheapest possible one will do , and access to at least 1 to 3 iOS devices . One device for the current OS release , one device running the OS release of the oldest OS you plan on supporting , and perhaps one dedicated test device for doing beta OS app testing . If you want to do Universal apps , at least 1 iPad and one non-iPad , as there are many things that ca n't be fully tested on the iOS Simulator . Going forward , a Mac that can run Lion may end up being required to keep up with the latest SDK frameworks , codesigning tools and app submission tools . You need to register any iOS devices that you want to use for app testing . They do n't need to belong to you or your company . Multiple developers can register the same shared devices . You do n't need to " register " any Macs . You do need to create and/or copy private keys and certificates to each Mac that you want to use for device testing development or app store submission . Unrealistically , you could get by with none . No devices or owned Macs are required . ( There are online tools that will pretty much construct an entire native app Xcode project . ) Have a friend or consultant with a Mac get your certificates and do the final codesigning ; and let your customers be your beta testers . But the latter could easily lead to apps that get rejected or that crash for most of your customers . And the non-Mac development tools all have various ( some severe ) deficiencies .
I 'll admit I 'm biased because I 've been working with it for years now , but <URL> has one of the best MIDI editing interfaces going . If the Pro version is a little too much for you to stomach there 's an " Express " version that 's pared down when it comes to plugins and samples , but has the same excellent MIDI editor . On the cheap-but-effective side you 've got <URL> which will run on OS X and includes MIDI editing facilities . You can try it out for free and it 's $ 40 ( at the time of writing ) to buy it if you like it . Hard to beat that deal . And then in between these two running the gamut of price and features you 've got a whole slew of other options : Cubase , Sonar , Abelton , etc. . Each of them offering slightly ( or not so slightly ) different interfaces and feature sets .
A different approach is to use an app like <URL> or <URL> which not only can record notes , but also integrate with other note taking tools . Evernote is strong for tagging notes with location and time of capture . Notability is stronger since it allows you to draw notes , sketches or type notes while recording . Once the session is over , you can tap on your notes to queue the sound to the time when you wrote that specific note . It 's got reasonably good options for audio recording , but no audio editing features -- but if the combination of note-taking and audio notes appeals , it 's pretty ideal . If you just need a simple - fast - press one button and go app - try out <URL> . It 's snappy and works from the Apple Watch to the iPad Pro .
When the user tries to install the update , the app store will alert the user saying something like " you must have iOS5 to install this update . " . The user will still be able to use the current version they they have , though .
Nope , not yet at least . Whenever my apps need an upgrade to their minimum requirements due to a new version of iOS , I always have gotten an email explaining everything .
<URL> is , in my opinion , the most powerful and most useful , and comes the closest to the promise of Briefs . You get customizable standard controls , it 's easy to work with , and most importantly it allows you to set up actions associated with taps , swipes , and rotation . The key is that not only can you work out a complex app interface , but you can then distribute the completed mockup so that other people can play with it using the free Blueprint Viewer app . Super , super handy . The only downside of Blueprint , imo , is that you ca n't easily create mockups that do n't look like a finished app . When working with outside clients or with semi-clueless management , if you present something that looks finished they 'll sometimes confuse it with the idea that the app actually is close to being finished . Rougher wireframes are also useful for getting people to focus on the functionality and not how it looks . Still , a great app , the best imo . Now to the also-rans : <URL> holds a lot of promise , especially the idea that it can generate some basic Xcode template stuff , but it 's very unfinished and does n't feel very polished . Definitely more promise than followthrough at this point . <URL> is designed for rough sketches and can be used for a variety of projects , not just iOS design . Unfortunately that lack of specialization means that it 's not actually very good at iOS app mockups . It 's so crude , really , that I 've never been even slightly satisfied with a result . Maybe if I used a stylus . <URL> and <URL> do have more iOS-focused controls and options , but both fall prey to the UI Sketcher problem of being designed for other things , too . Additionally neither feels sufficiently complete or polished , and everything is harder to do than I 'd like . I 've used iMockups to create something I actually presented to clients , but felt the need to constantly apologize for the ways the wireframes were n't quite like I intended the app to be . SketchyPad exports to Balsamiq Mockups format , so if you 're already a big Balsamiq fan then it might be a good match for you . Both are definitely a step up from the looseness of UI Sketcher ( or any other sketching app ) , but just are n't good enough to actually use for real work . I 've not used <URL> , but it appears to be nearly identical to iMockups .
I recommend <URL> which can recover a very wide variety of <URL> . Even if you do n't see the file type listed , ProSoft maybe able to help you recover the data . I once had a client delete a their QuickBook 's for Mac data file . It was a new version of QuickBooks with a radically different file format from prior versions . The current Data Rescue did n't recover the data ; however , ProSoft was able to provide a new file definition and all of the data was recovered . There are separate Mac and PC versions of Data Rescue . I have used both with good results , but I have far more experience with the Mac version . I find $ 99 for Data Rescue to be a very fair price , however , if you are only needing to recover image files from digital cameras , checkout ProSoft 's <URL> for $ 20 . I believe Image Rescue comes with both Mac and PC licenses .
You can find this out yourself . Open System Preferences - > Language and Text - > Input Sources . Check the boxes for the keyboards you want . Then , check the Show Input menu in menu bar box . Click the new menu bar item , select the keyboard layout you want to see , go back to the menu bar item , and click Show Keyboard Viewer . This will work from any computer , and you can see any layout . The first picture was snapped while a full sized keyboard was connected , the second shows the option key held down - and is what you will see if you have a smaller bluetooth or built in keyboard connected .
In iOS5 there is no way to easily find flagged emails . But in the public preview of iOS 6 at WWDC ( hence not under NDA ) , Apple showed off a new " Flagged " top level folder in the iOS Mail App , as well as a special folder for email from senders marked as VIP 's . So it appears that the ultimate answer to this questions is : upgrade to iOS 6 .
Installing Natively If the developer releases pre-built binaries for your OS , then this will likely be the quickest , easiest and most up-to-date ( in terms of the application itself ) method of getting an application . This relies on the developer ( or some trusted third party ) to be keeping the builds up to date with changes in both the application and in Mac OS X ( e.g. rebuilding against the latest Mac OS X SDKs as they are released ) . One downside is you are trusting whoever built it not to have maliciously modified the source before doing so , and/or whoever is hosting/mirroring the download not to have done the same . Generally a non-issue , but that 's why there are often MD5 checksums for downloads . A possible downside is that you do n't have control over which version of any dependencies the developer builds against ( e.g. for things like Python , or the C++ STL , or OpenSSL ) . For example , if they build against native Mac OS X SDKs , these are generally a little behind the current versions of most libraries . They do get updates , but not necessarily very quickly ( except in some critical security situations ) , as Apple need to do their own QA/testing before they can include updates to libraries they bundle with the system . Some developers may include the latest libraries in their application bundle , especially if they rely on new features of said library which have n't yet made it into the base Mac OS X set . Basically , you ca n't control this , so it may/may not be a downside . Building from Source Manually This might come under ' installing natively ' , since its not macports as such , but basically means getting the latest source , and building it yourself against ' native ' Mac OS X SDKs and/or your choice of versions of dependencies . Advantages are that you 're going to be building on your system , for your system , so all dependencies match your runtime environment and are the version of your choosing ( e.g. recently updated to latest source to include bug fixes and security patches ) . Of course the obvious downside is you need to make sure you have all those dependencies ( YMMV depending on the project ) . You 're also not needing to trust someone else 's binary build ( though you still want to make sure you 've got the ' official ' source code , without any chances of malicious modifications ! ) . Compared to installing from binaries : Pro : You get more control of dependencies , you can choose to use the Mac OS X bundled libraries or your own builds of them ( e.g. for things like Python , OpenSSL , libstdc , etc ) ... Con : ... but you have to manage the dependencies ( obtain/configure/build / install ) , especially if there 's no in-built version at all . Pro : Runtime dependencies are definitely compatible , because you built against them ... Con : ... unless you change them later for another project ! Pro : You are n't blindly trusting someone else 's binary build ... Con : ... but it may take much longer to build from source than simply downloading binaries Installing from MacPorts This is typically much like building from source , but much of it is scripted and tested by thousands of others , so you tend to have fewer issues getting projects to build . Further , MacPorts keeps track of all the projects you build , and their versions , and makes it really easy to check what 's out of date , upgrade to new versions , switch between versions , etc. . Of course you 're relying on the application/dependencies to be in MacPorts , which requires someone ( possibly even you !! ) , to have made a MacPorts project for it . Also you 're relying on the MacPorts project to be kept up-to-date with the original application , and likewise for the dependencies . If the MacPorts scripts are n't updated when new versions of the source are released , you wo n't get access to them . Compared to Installing Natively from Binaries Pro : You 're possibly not relying on someone else 's binary build ( or if you are , it 's at least checksum tested ) ... Con : ... but you may have to wait while MacPorts builds your project . Pro : You will often have more current versions of dependencies than are shipped with Mac OS X ... Con : ... but MacPorts will need to update/build them as you go , which can take a while . Pro : MacPorts will often have newer versions of system libraries than Mac OS X. . . Con : ... but this means it must build &amp; install a second version of many base libraries , whether they 're strictly needed or not . Compared to building from source yourself Pro : It 's often much easier , just typing a single command , than obtaining/configuring/building / installing various dependencies ... Pro : And MacPorts keeps track of all your versions , so its easier to make sure all your applications that rely on some common dependency are updated when you update it ... Con : ... But in all cases , you 're at the mercy of the port maintainers to keep ports updated , so it might be a little ( or a lot ! ) behind some official releases of applications/libraries . Con : ... And you ca n't choose between the Mac OS X bundle
end question
start question
How can I upload all photos from a burst on the iPhone ?
For now , the only way to upload all burst photos to Dropbox natively is to connect your iPhone to a computer with a cable , and let Dropbox Camera Upload sync . There it uploads all the photos , and not just the single image as it does while syncing wirelessly . I too have struggled with a solution to this problem , and pray that in the future it will be resolved ...
You ca n't do this in Lion . <URL> if you want to be able to do this .
Have you tried using <URL> ? Plug in your phone . Select it from Devices . Select the photos , hit the little " no " icon ( the circle with the line through it ) near the bottom of the window , and delete the photo . Also good to delete photos you do n't even want in photos .
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
The paid version of quick office ( quick office connect mobile suite I think it 's called ) allows you to add various online storage services : google docs , dropbox , box.net and mobile me . You upload/sync your files on your computer to one of these services then add your account to quick office and you will be able to access and write to the files on the service you added . Quickoffice also has local storage where you can download files to from one of the services . This is useful if you know you 'll want to access a big file when your not on wifi . You can download it while on wifi and then access it later offline . And vice versa you can create a document locally when and the upload it to a service later . Each iPhone app has it 's own sandbox which it can modify and read . It ca n't see or modify any other apps sandbox . So iPhone browser will only see files you added using iPhone browser . iOS 4 now has a documents facilty where if an app can read a word document such as quickoffice it registers that it cam do that and if an app can list files such as the official dropbox app you can open a document in the dropbox app and it will show a Hutton which you can press to open the document in quick office . Quickoffice also has the ability to openema attachments . However I have n't used this so I do n't know how it works .
You will need to renew your dev certificate and your provisions to upload apps from Xcode to stock iOS devices .
Sorry , but no . As of iOS 5 , there 's no method for the user to adjust font/interface sizes unless the app gives you a specific control for it . iOS Mail does have a setting for minimum font size , but it only applies to the body of the message , not the message lists .
All the photos that are taken in a burst sequence share a " BurstUUID " in their EXIF data . This is how applications know they are related . For example I just took a burst of images , installed <URL> and ran against the directory with the burst images . This is the output . For another application on Windows ( or any other platform ) to recognise and show these images as a group it will need to be rewritten to recognise this new EXIF tag .
since software update 3.0 you can select multiple photos copy them and paste it as email body , in iOS you can SHARE it as email .
iCloud Photo Library 's purpose is to unify the photo libraries across your devices . If you wish your devices to maintain separate libraries , you need to disable iCloud Photo Library .
If you have been using Photos only since migration you can safely delete it . The purpose of the migratedPhotoLibrary is so you still can use iPhoto with your old pictures ( and perhaps import new ones to iPhoto only , if you have done this , then no , do n't delete it . ) After deleting it you can delete your iPhoto app as well . <URL>
Open the app and you 'll find a little symbol with 3 horizontal stripes in the right bottom corner . You 'll get a list and you can tap the memo and click " delete " right afterwards . Or in iTunes you can select all voice memo 's after you 've synced them to your PC and delete them from there .
Beware of legal issues . You can but you 'll need to jailbreak , use extra hardware ( plug a mic into the headphone jack ) , or use 3rd party SIP software . For example , Google Voice has an iPhone app , and Google Voice supports call recording . Google Voice does announce to both parties that it is recording the call .
The procedure of photo transfer from iPhone to Mac is astoundingly simple and takes few minutes . You can simply follow below steps : Download <URL> Firstly you will need to download the iPhone to Mac Wi-Fi transfer app to your iPhone through Apple App Store . No installation on your Mac required ! Connect your iPhone and Mac to the same Wi-Fi network . If you do not have multiple routers at your place , your iOS devices should detect and connect to the same Wi-Fi network automatically . Otherwise you might need to manually choose the Wi-fi network for your iPhone to the same as the Mac . Run the iPhone Photo Wireless Transfer Run the photos iPhone to Mac Wireless transfer app on your iPhone . You will get a local IP address through which your Mac can access your iPhone photos library . Browse through your iPhone photo library from your Mac browser Open the web browser on your Mac , type the above IP address in the address bar of your web browser on the Mac . It could be Internet Explorer , Chrome , Firefox , Safari , or any other web browsers you have . Press Enter on the keyboard , all photos and albums from this iPhone 's photo library will be listed on the Photo Wireless Transfer interface right on your Mac browser . After the Wi-Fi connection between your iPhone and Mac established , you can use the web browser on the Mac to browse through photo library and albums on iPhone . Open the target photo album , you will find all photos listed as thumbnails . Transfer photos from iPhone to Mac Now it 's time to pick up the photos from iPhone photo library and transfer to Mac over Wi-Fi . You can click the ' preview ' to enlarge the photos ; you can click ' Download original ' to download pictures one by one ; you can also select multiple photos or all photos in the album and download them as a compressed zip file . With this iPhone to Mac transfer tool , to copy photos from iPhone to Mac over the air is much easier than ever before .
Bowtie should solve your problem . It 's a free desktop app that talks to a .99 cent app that you download on the iPhone : <URL>
It 's in the network settings : Wi-Fi join your network if needed tap the blue right arrow Select Static instead of DHCP/BootP and enter in the fixed IP you prefer Visit <URL> if you want pictures to guide you to the network settings part of the settings app . This only works on Wi-Fi since your carrier issues you an IP address . You could also use a VPN profile to tunnel all traffic to a fixed IP if you had a router / server set up to provide that sort of IP / DHCP to iOS devices .
You can disable voicemail button ( not remove it ) if you jailbreak and install " voicemailblock " from Cydia it will disable it . Works with SBSetting so you can enable and disable the button when you want .
Yes - if you trust Apple to never lose the photos , you can delete all your local copies . Pay attention to which devices have full resolution images and which have " optimized " settings . Also , I 've been doing this for iTunes Match for some time . I have only lost a few dozen songs in two years of trusting the cloud . For that reason , I now set alarms every 6 months to download a local copy of all the songs from iCloud and back that up to an external HD . I 'll be doing the same with my iCloud photo library to be sure I never lose all the photos . I would add , that if the thought of losing a dozen photos or <URL> if your account should get messed up for engineering to work out the problem is n't your cup of tea , you might keep your originals on hard drives and in filesystems you know you have the tools to work with directly .
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
I highly recommend importing your photos at full resolution , on the off chance that you ever want to crop or make a big print or display on a high res screen in the future . With Apple Photos , you can import at full resolution and it will upload the full image to iCloud . Then , under Preferences : iCloud Photo Library select Optimize Mac Storage . Photos will now automatically switch to thumbnails when you start running low on space , and will automatically download the full-res version whenever you need to edit , view or export an image .
end question
start question
What 's wrong with my Outlook search ?
I see this happen somewhat often in our office environment where Outlook 2011 is connected to our Exchange server . Typically a spotlight re-index will do the trick , either using the method you tried or by adding the HD to Spotlight 's privacy pane , then removing it a few minutes later . Sometimes I have to go a step further &amp; remove preference files . spotlight.plist , outlook.plist , etc. . . Beyond that I will sometimes be forced to rebuild the Outlook identity using the Microsoft Database Utility ( hold opt while opening Outlook ) . Hope that helps ! ( Oddly it 's always 2 weeks here as well )
The easiest method to show which folder an email is currently located is to right click on the header bar in Outlook and add the " folder " ( visible columns have a check mark to the left of it ) column to the current view . This will show you which folder said email is contained in when you perform a search . If you no longer wish to have the " folder " seen in the current view just reverse the process to hide it again . If this is your only customization to the current view you can alternately choose to " reset to defaults " by right clicking on the header bar and choosing the reset to defaults action .
An alias contains two pieces of information : a unique identifier of the file it links to , and the path and file name of the file it links to . If you rename or move a file , and then create a new file with the path and file name that the file originally had , then any alias that linked to the original file now links to the new file . However , if you rename or move a file without replacing it , and then invoke an alias , the alias is updated to point to the new path and file name , making use of the unique identifier to do so . A symbolic link , on the other hand , does not contain a unique identifier to a file , and would appear as broken if the file is renamed or moved and not replaced with a file of the same path and file name . Your choice should depend on which scenario suits you best .
Here 's an extension that will let you do it in Google Chrome : <URL> At the bottom of that page is a link to do the same thing in Safari ( I ca n't link to it directly from here because I do n't have the reputation for it ) . I have n't tried either version though . Personally , I use Mafuyu ( <URL> ) . Instead of using and to navigate and to open the result , you use - or to open the result directly .
<URL> has a solution for heart-rate sensor bands communicating with the Runtastic apps ( which are similar to RunKeeper ) via a sensor key which is attached to the iPhone : <URL> The dongle is as expensive as for the Digifit , but the app is a lot more affordable .
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
I found an app ( paid ) that will do the above : <URL> . Disclaimer : I have n't tried it yet .
If your computer is locked , the screensaver settings for the root user account is used instead of your own . You can change those settings according to the answer to this question : <URL>
Sit , my children , and let me tell you of the world and its tricks ... Scrolling You can basically always scroll inactive window content . I ca n't even think of a case where this is n't true . ( This also means that scroll-to-navigate works in Lion . ) Dragging In many cases , you can drag content from inactive windows/apps without focusing the app . For example , you can drag a file from Finder or a message from Mail . Clicking When you click a button that 's on a window , it usually " <URL> events " -- meaning your mouse-down will both focus the window and act as a mouse-down event on the button . Then when you let go , the button will carry out its duty . ( Also note : in the case of the close/minimize/zoom widgets , you can actually click them without focusing the window . ) ( Second aside : in toolbars , it 's not uncommon to disable some buttons while they 're inactive , so you do n't accidentally click them -- take Mail 's delete button , for instance . However , this functionality is slightly broken in Lion , because if you start clicking ( so the window focuses ) and then drag , you can actually still activate the button . ) However , this mostly only works for buttons . As you 've noticed , when you try to click a link ( or select text , or another similar action ) , you have to focus the window first by clicking , and only then can you interact with the content . The Great Workaround ( or the rule of thumb , as you say ; hehe ) To get to the point : In most cases , when you hold down ⌘ Command , you can interact with inactive window content . You can hold down ⌘ and select ( and even drag ) text in the background , drag things around ( including scrollbars ! ) , click buttons , and more , without activating the window . " But wait ! " I hear you say . " Holding down ⌘ opens links in a new tab ! " Ay , there 's the rub : When you hold down ⌘ and click a link in Safari or Chrome , it will work without activating the window ... but the link will open in a new tab . And to my knowledge there 's no Great Workaround for that , unless you want to disable ⌘ - clicking in your browser . There you have the facts -- make the workflow you will of them ! An update , quoting some content from Apple 's <URL> ( this is just for reference , not to prove a point ) : Avoid providing click-through for an item or action whose result might be dangerous or undesirable . Specifically , avoid enabling click-through for an item that : Performs a potentially harmful action that users ca n't cancel ( for example , the Delete button in Mail ) Performs an action that is difficult or impossible to cancel ( such as the Send button in Mail ) Dismisses a dialog without telling the user what action was taken ( for example , the Save button in a Save dialog that overwrites an existing file and automatically dismisses the dialog ) Removes the user from the current context ( for example , selecting a new item in a Finder column that changes the target of the Finder window ) Clicking in any one of these situations should cause the window that contains the item to be brought forward , but no other action to be taken . In general , it 's safe to provide click-through for an item that asks the user for confirmation before executing , even if the command ultimately results in destruction of data . For example , you can provide click-through for a delete button if you also make sure to give users the opportunity to cancel or confirm the action before it proceeds . Think twice before supporting click-through for items that do n't provide confirmation feedback . Specifically , consider how dangerous the action might be , and determine how difficult it will be for the user to undo the action after it 's performed . For example , the Mail Delete button does not provide click-through because it deletes a message without asking for confirmation , which is a potentially harmful action that can be difficult to undo . On the other hand , click-through for the New button in Mail is fine because its resulting action is not harmful and is easy to undo . Ensure that items that do not support click-through appear disabled when their window is inactive . The disabled appearance helps users understand that these controls are unavailable . For example , the delete and mark as junk buttons in the inactive Mail window shown below do not support click-through .
The stuff in the Other category is typically documents that have been deleted on the iPad , and also documents that are in use by various apps ( for example , PDF documents that are in use by GoodReader , or docs from the iWork programs ) . Sometimes these documents are available via the Apps tab in iTunes , other times not ; it depends on the program . For example , Documents to Go and GoodReader can manage their own documents outside of iTunes using Dropbox . Deleted documents should be cleared out when you sync with iTunes . Sometimes , due to a known iTunes bug , the Other category wo n't shrink as expected . There 's more at these Apple Discussions threads : <URL> <URL>
Unlike the newer iPhone models , the first iPhone did not include UMTS/HSDPA - also referred to as <URL> - but only GSM/GPRS/EDGE , which are referred to as <URL> . The terms 2G , 3G and 4G refer to the x ' th generation of a cellular wireless standard . Therefore , you can search for cases that refer to the iPhone 2G . If you want to be abosultely sure , use the model identifier number when searching : A1203 . Terms used for the first iPhone include : original iPhone iPhone 2G iPhone EDGE iPhone 1 Here 's an overview of celluar standards from <URL> :
I understand you do n't want to install Windows . However , thats what all Mac-users at our company do ( with vmWare fusion ) .
<URL> is $ 10 on the MAS and does have a status-bar only option .
You ca n't disable it , but you can re-map the shortcut so you 're far less likely to hit it . Open System Preferences , go to Keyboard > Shortcuts ( tab ) > App Shortcuts ( Left field ) . Click the " + " , select " Microsoft Outlook " from the " Application : " list , change " Menu Title : " to " Send , " and change the shortcut to something you are n't likely to hit accidentally , such as Shift + CMD + Option + G , " or similar . Close and re-open Outlook . Enjoy not accidentally sending unfinished eMail !
You can set up a CalDAV account to sync all your Google calendars . The following information is provided by Google and can be found <URL> : To sync with your device , follow these steps : Open the Settings application on your device 's home screen . Open Mail , Contacts , Calendars . Select Add Account ... Select Other . Select Add CalDAV Account . Enter your account information : In the Server field , enter [ google.com ] In the Username field , enter your full Google Account or Google Apps email address . In the Password field , enter your Google Account or Google Apps password . In the Description field , enter the name you 'd like to appear on the account . Select Next at the top of your screen . After you 've completed setup , open the Calendar app on your device and syncing will automatically begin . By default only your primary calendar will be synced to your device . You can sync additional calendars by visiting the following page from any web browser : https://www.google.com/calendar/iphoneselect ( Google Apps users can go to https://www.google.com/calendar/hosted/your_domain/iphoneselect , replacing ' your_domain ' with your actual domain name . ) Select the calendars you 'd like to sync , and click Save . The selected calendars will display on your device at the time of the next sync .
Fire up Safari and check the settings for the default search engine . For me that is google and searching the way you described it for me opens safari ( currently my default browser ) with a google search . The option is right there on the first settings tab . I included an image detailing where to find it ( sorry for the german ) :
You can use the " Save as PDF " option in the Print dialog ( drop down is in lower left corner of the dialog window ) .
If both system are using the IMAP mail provider all you have to do is setup the connection to the mail server and all the emails and folders will be copied down to the windows computer . That is what IMAP is for . The mail stays on the server , and can be store on the local computer also , and when you connect to the server with another device , computer , phone or pad , all the mail with folders gets copied to the other device . But I think some of your mail was gotten using POP so it is not longer on the server . Or you have emails in local folder only and they would be on the server . But you can create folder on the server in one mail program , or on the mail web interface and then copy those emails into those folder on the server byt copying them in one of the email programs . Then when you log on with the other device all of them will be downloaded to the other device . Other alternative : - You can find various solutions on having a <URL> search for your problem . Or you can have a look at the following link : <URL>
From my experience excluding a folder from Spotlight indexing will exclude the files/folders from showing up when you do a search in Spotlight ( command + space ) but will still allow you to open that folder in finder and use the search bar in the top right of finder to search within that folder only . I imagine that the search of an un-indexed folder means the OSX will search in real time , or temporarily index the folder to allow you to do a folder search that has been excluded from the main Spotlight index and then erase it when you close the Finder window . Just make sure once you 've typed in your search word ( s ) in the search bar that you click the name of your folder/drive in the " Search " criteria in the grey bar that appears ( as shown below ) . To exclude a folder from appearing in the Spotlight search , and therefore from being indexed go to : System Preferences > Spotlight > Privacy tab , then click the + and select the folder you want to exclude :
The <URL> extension can help you define new search engines to be used by Safari . It can also change the default search engine Safari is using . You could then use it to put the Google search URL as the default search . See the instructions on the extension website .
end question
start question
Which chargers to buy for a charging station ?
The answer is YES . You can use the higher power Charger on lower power laptops . The battery will only take as much as it can handle . It is a pull not push process . Extra info : If you were to use lower power charger on high power laptop , you could end up newer charging the battery fully , or it could take extended time to charge .
I ca n't delete this question anymore , so I provide the solution : I had 2 different accounts . The problem is that I 've used my email for one account , instead of using my nickname , and this generated the second account . I think they should recognize emails , and warn you , you already have an account with this email , to avoid issues like mine .
If there are n't many photos , the easiest way to do it is simply delete the photos on the phone . Unfortunately , this means selecting each photo individually as there is no ' select all ' option . To avoid individually selecting photos on the iPhone , you 'll want to use the ' delete ' option when prompted at the end of importing . Because iPhoto only deletes the photos that were imported at that time , you wo n't be able to do this with your ' normal ' iPhoto library . To get around this , simply create another ( throw away ) iPhoto library to import the photos . Select ' delete ' when prompted at the end of the import to delete the photos from the iPhone . Then you can delete this throw away library on your Mac . To create a new iPhoto library , hold down the Option ⌥ key when launching iPhoto . This will display a window asking which library you would like to open or create a new library .
Apple <URL> the following Macs will run Mountain Lion : iMac ( Mid 2007 or newer ) MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Mid/Late 2007 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or newer ) Mac mini ( Early 2009 or newer ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or newer ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) So the complement of this list are not supported to run Mountain Lion ( as far as I can tell ; edit this list to add or subtract models as appropriate ; you may be able to get it running on an unsupported machine ) : Macintosh 128K Macintosh 512K Macintosh 128K ( revised ) Macintosh XL Macintosh Plus Macintosh 512Ke Macintosh Plus ( Platinum ) Macintosh SE Macintosh II Macintosh IIx Macintosh SE/30 Macintosh IIcx Macintosh SE FDHD Macintosh IIci Macintosh Portable Macintosh IIfx Macintosh LC Macintosh Classic Macintosh IIsi Macintosh Portable ( backlit screen ) Macintosh Classic II Quadra 700 Quadra 900 PowerBook 100 PowerBook 140 PowerBook 170 Macintosh LC II Quadra 950 PowerBook 145 Macintosh IIvi Macintosh IIvx PowerBook 160 PowerBook 180 PowerBook Duo 210 PowerBook Duo 230 Macintosh LC III / III + Macintosh Color Classic Centris 610 Centris 650 Quadra 800 PowerBook 165c Workgroup Server 80 Workgroup Server 95 PowerBook 145b PowerBook 180c Macintosh LC 520 Workgroup Server 60 Centris / Quadra 660AV Quadra 840AV PowerBook 165 Macintosh Color Classic II Macintosh TV Quadra 605 Quadra 610 Quadra 650 PowerBook Duo 250 PowerBook Duo 270c Macintosh LC 550 Macintosh LC 575 Power Macintosh 6100 Power Macintosh 7100 Power Macintosh 8100 Workgroup Server 6150 Workgroup Server 8150 Workgroup Server 9150 PowerBook 520/c PowerBook 540/c PowerBook 550 PowerBook Duo 280 PowerBook Duo 280c Quadra 630 PowerBook 150 Power Macintosh 6200 / 6300 Macintosh LC 580 Performa 5200 Power Macintosh 9500 Power Macintosh 7200 Power Macintosh 7500 Power Macintosh 8500 PowerBook 190 PowerBook 5300 PowerBook Duo 2300c Workgroup Server 7250 Workgroup Server 8550 Performa 5260 / 5300 Performa 5400 Power Macintosh 7600 Performa 6360 Performa 6400 Power Macintosh 4400 PowerBook 1400 Power Macintosh 5500 Power Macintosh 6500 Power Macintosh 7300 Power Macintosh 8600 Power Macintosh 9600 PowerBook 3400 Twentieth Anniversary Macintosh Workgroup Server 7350 Workgroup Server 9650 PowerBook 2400c Power Macintosh G3 desktop Power Macintosh G3 minitower PowerBook G3 Power Macintosh G3 AIO Macintosh Server G3 PowerBook G3 series iMac G3 Power Macintosh G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) Macintosh Server G3 ( Blue &amp; White ) PowerBook G3 ( " Lombard " ) iBook Macintosh Server G4 iMac ( slot loading ) Power Mac G4 Graphite PowerBook ( " Pismo " ) Power Mac G4 Cube iBook ( FireWire ) PowerBook G4 Titanium iBook ( white ) Power Mac G4 Quicksilver Server G4 Quicksilver iMac G4 15 " iBook ( 14 " ) eMac Xserve iMac G4 17 " Power Mac G4 MDD Macintosh Server G4 MDD PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 12 " ) PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 17 " ) Xserve slot loading Xserve Cluster Node Power Mac G5 PowerBook G4 Aluminum ( 15 " ) iBook G4 ( 12 " / 14 " ) iMac G4 20 " Xserve G5 Xserve Cluster Node G5 Xserve Power Mac G5 FX iMac G5 17 " iMac G5 20 " iMac Mac mini Power Mac G5 dual core iMac Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 15 " ) Mac mini Core Solo Mac mini Core Duo MacBook Pro ( 17 " ) MacBook ( Late 2008 plastic ) Xserve ( Intel ) ( Late 2006 ) MacBook ( Late 2006 ) Mac mini Core 2 Duo MacBook ( Late 2007 ) Xserve Harpertown MacBook Penryn 1st generation MacBook Air ( early 2008 )
There 's no such thing as an " OEM " version of OS X , since there are of course no OEMs for Macs other than Apple themselves . All new Macs have recovery partitions on their hard drives that can be booted and used to reinstall OS X , so you can format your main partition and reinstall OS X. Failing that , they will also do a network boot over the Internet and reinstall OS X from Apple 's servers . OS X also includes a program called Lion Recovery Disk Assistant that lets you create your own bootable recovery media on external drives , so you can make as many recovery disks as you want . Failing all of these options , you can purchase Lion on a USB drive for US$ 69 ( if you 're in the US ) .
Yes , you do . They are two entirely separate apps for two radically different devices .
Use the default ( case-insensitive ) unless you both a ) know what you 're doing and b ) you absolutely have to . There are several programs ( Norton Antivirus comes to mind ) that wo n't work properly on a case-sensitive file system . HFS is , by default , case-insensitive but case-preserving ( i.e. it does n't care what you type for comparison purposes , but it will remember what you type ) .
You can buy a contract-free iPhone directly from Apple . Just click on " Or get an iPhone unlocked and contract-free " :
<URL> offers a multi-charge/sync setup now , and apparently <URL> has one in the works . If you 're looking to build your own , the Datamation unit uses a <URL> with 16 USB ports for charging and syncing . You could integrate it into your own solution . You could also just get a 12 + port USB charger , however charging and syncing may take significantly longer this way . The Datamation site has some <URL> that support this .
USB 2.0 is faster , but Wi-Fi is better . In practice , Wi-Fi will be superior to USB for syncing and backup since you do n't have to worry about plugging it in . It can start as soon as you enter the network , throttle itself based on CPU/iOS activity . You can even start on WiFi and connect your iOS 5 device to USB and syncing will continue at faster speeds if WiFi proves to be slow for a particular sync session . My experience is the devices can do their thing and sync in the background without me waiting for them and I 'm almost always the slowest peg in the process . :-) However , USB 2.0 speed is faster than 802.11 n both in theory and in practice . See this chart from a <URL> on relative speeds relating to Time Capsule performance . The one area where USB ( or any other wired connection whether it 's USB 2.0 , 3.0 , FireWire or Thunderbolt ) is better than Wi-Fi is <URL> . If your sync session is largely lots of little checks and no appreciable time is spent waiting for large files to transfer , then the wired connection could be much faster if your sessions are shorter than 15 to 30 seconds in length . Here 's another nice article explaining how even a slow USB 2.0 connection can be fast enough for some demanding data transfers : <URL> <URL>
Looks like the answer is Yes . From Apple Forums : The AirPort Express can only " extend " a wireless signal ... using wireless only ... from another AirPort Extreme , Time Capsule , or AirPort Express . <URL>
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
No , you will not be charged . You can re-download them in iTunes or directly on the phone . You 'll have to hit the " buy " button , but after it starts downloading , you should see a message saying you already bought it once . The alert box includes a button to go ahead and re-download the app , which you will then not be charged for .
I 've re-installed the OS many times since , so the original issue no longer bugs me . But I did find a third party application " Shortcut Detective " ( <URL> ) that comes very close .
No , iTunes will not " listen " for music in a given folder ( like the popular BT program Transmission , which will load torrent files once they 've been downloaded to a given directory ) . You have to manually add music by dragging it in the iTunes window or going through the file menu ( CMD + O ) . However , you could achieve what you are after perhaps with some voodoo in Apple Script . Or simply sort the contents of your music folder by " date added " ( provided you are using Lion ) and manually add the songs as they arrive . But then if you are going through all this trouble of manually managing files , you may wish to ask yourself , " why " ? It might be less of a burden to just let iTunes do its thing ( like it was mentioned before , you can tell iTunes to copy the music anywhere you like , on any drive connected to your system , even on a network ) than micro-manage a bunch of files .
Sadly there is no led light for when it is charging it only vibrates/shows a picture of a battery
I 'm not exactly sure what you mean by sticky notes , but I have been using the free " GoTasks " for quite some time . I 've found that it is by far the best integration into google tasks , and you can leave little notes with each separate task .
That depends on the product . I have gotten both good and bad batteries on eBay . If it comes from China , Japan , Korea , or any other Asian country , it may very well be a fake . I have ordered several from those countries , and most of them ended up not even being detected by my MacBook . Filter the listing so it only shows auctions within your own country . Check the seller 's ratings and their reviews from previous sales of the same product . Finally , make sure they have a good return policy in case your battery does n't work . As for the name-brand vs. off-brand question , you can get good off-brand batteries , and bad name-brand batteries . It 's like gambling , but the chances are closer to 50/50 .
Seems like this is a bug in iTunes , happens to me as well as others . There 's a few posts on the apple support forum : <URL> <URL> <URL> There 's more if you search there , but no solutions available . UPDATE : Bug is fixed for me in iTunes 12.2.2.25
I just filed down my new Apple MagSafe power cord on each end and it totally works with my 2012 15 " MacBook Pro . . Just found out the edges and I did a few passes over the top were the pins are and pow ! It totally works
end question
start question
What speed is the SATA controller in a July 2012 macbook pro ?
<URL> it and confirms that . . ... the MacBook Pro 15 " ( 2012 ) has two drive bays , each capable of running an OWC 6G SSD at full 6Gb/s speeds . which is the SATA Revision 3.0 speed . They 've also setup a striped RAID which benchmarked at " over 1000MB/s read speeds and write speeds that nearly hit 900MB/s " . Regarding the Macbook Pro 13 " ( 2012 ) , <URL> using a 6Gb/s SSD only in the main bay , as the 6Gb/s performance of the optical bay is very poor . 3Gb/s models however work without problems in the optical bay .
System Information ( formerly known as System Profiler ) will show you some information about the built-in camera ( which Apple calls the iSight ) , but I do n't see frame rate , exposure time , or shutter speed mentioned here . In my specific case , the manufacturer is listed as Apple , and they likely do n't want to publish this information . Apple treats the built-in iSight as a simple checkbox feature ( a computer has it or it does n't ) , not as a detailed specs feature ( like memory size , hard drive size , screen size , network speed , etc ) . To view the information available about your Mac 's built-in iSight , go to the Apple menu , choose About This Mac , then choose System Report ... . From there , go into the Hardware section , choose USB , and look in the USB Device Tree for Built-in iSight . <URL> is a company that often disassembles Apple products to try to determine things like the cost of the bill of materials , specific parts used , and unadvertised specs or capabilities of the hardware . You could visit their site and see if your machine is covered there , or if there 's another way to get information about your machine .
Yes - at the moment - those link speeds are the theoretical maximum speed at which data can transfer to or from those devices . The EFI firmware version on your MacBook Pro controls these link speeds as well as many other aspects of CPU throttling , so without reverse engineering that code - it 's hard to know what or why the link may re-negotiate at a different speed . In the past , <URL> to increase SATA link speeds for third party drives when they have done the engineering to make sure it will be stable enough - even if they do n't support those drives . Of course they also release updates to improve their OEM parts in terms of speed and reliability so you can monitor those link speeds as well as your actual bottlenecks and <URL> if you feel things are not optimally configured - especially if you have some benchmarks or other data to show that case .
With some care it can be done safely . It depends by and large on what kind of loads you 're placing on the MacBook when it 's being used like this . The MacBook Pro 's ventilation operates optimally with the lid open . Closing the lid restricts airflow out of the vents that run along the inside of the hinge on the laptop as seen here : <URL> When the lid is closed , there 's a slight gap along the bottom that 's used as an exit route for the hot air coming out of those vents as seen here : <URL> If you 're closing the lid , you should ensure that the entirety of this exit path along the bottom of the laptop is free from obstructions . That means not placing the bottom of laptop on a flat surface . Generally a vertical stand like this is employed if you want to operate the laptop with the lid closed and ensure ventilation remains adequate : <URL> You should monitor the temperature sensors of your laptop to ensure your workloads do n't push the unit beyond normal operating temperatures when you 're using it with the lid close . You can use something like <URL> to keep an eye on critical , system operating parameters such as CPU use and the various temperature sensors in your MacBook to make sure they stay within their safe operating limits .
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
It is safe to operate the HDD this way . There are many servers that use HDDs vertically . Your main concern , while operating this way , would be the slightly worse cooling . The Twelvesouth guys are saying that they deliver better cooling , but they are comparing it to a closed and put on the table notebook . My experience shows that the best way to keep the notebook cool is to keep the lid open . If I want to use only my external monitor , I close it , wake it with the external keyboard/mouse and then reopen the lid ( only the external monitor works and the cooling is best ) . Note that if you 're not doing CPU/GPU heavy things ( gaming , transcoding movies ) , you 'll be ok .
You have to decide what you want in terms of storage , performance and OS since there is no option to have 2x1TB drives in the $ 799 model and there 's no option to have a 1TB Fusion Drive in the $ 999 model . Essentially , you 're paying $ 200 more to get OS X Server and for the ability to have a second hard drive ( doing it yourself is an option if you can follow guides on iFixit and have the tools and accessories required ) . Choose the $ 799 model with : A 1TB Fusion Drive - $ 250 OS X Server - $ 19.99 Total : $ 1068.99 ( but you 'll have a faster drive but half the storage space of the default $ 999 model ) . Choose the $ 799 model with the default 1TB drive : add another 1TB 2.5 " 5400 rpm drive - about $ 80 + ( approximate cost from newegg ) OS X Server - $ 19.99 The <URL> - $ 49.95 Total : $ 948.94 Hassle of doing it yourself : Priceless
Your computer has 2 cores , but 4 logical processors . What you are seeing is Intel 's <URL> . This technology puts multiple logical processors on a single core , so that each core can run multiple threads at once . The difference between this and multiple cores is that hyper-threading only duplicates the parts of the processor which control the current state , not the actual execution unit , but multiple cores duplicate everything . This means that your computer will run like it has four cores only if the threads on each core are using different parts of the execution unit , but if the exact same thing was running on both threads in a single core , it would n't be any faster than a two-core system without hyper-threading .
The video out on MacBook Pro uses a Displayport / Thunderbolt port . To hook up to a VGA or DVI cable , you need an adapter . Alternatively you could buy a cable which has Displayport on one end and DVI or VGA on the other . The adapters do n't come as standard so you 'll need to buy one in an Apple store , online or use a third-party cable .
is an application that will show you hardware information to determine which bus the CD drive is connected . Once you know your hardware specifications , you can shop better . Check <URL> and <URL> for housings that work physically with SATA connectors . Also check <URL> on the issues you might face moving to an SSD / HD combination .
Not possible.I have non-Apple earphones with a mini remote with three buttons - the central one being the one to be double-pressed . I have turned the Internet upside down and have n't found anything close to this , even on jailbreak ( my ipod touch is jailbroken ) .
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
I replaced the cable , and everything is now back to normal . So , as I suspected , the cable was the culprit . Instructions on how to replace the SATA cable is easily found online ( search for things like ) . The only tricky part was to connect the sleep LED to the cable , but if you just check how the old cable is connected you 'll be fine .
I 've used smcFanControl when I had a 1st Gen Macbook Pro 15 '' . It 's not harmful in the sense that the fan is designed to be on , but of course , like any other mechanical device , the more you use it , the faster it wears out . If your Macbook Pro is getting too hot , try one of those utilities to see if it helps . In any case , getting a cooling pad is not a bad idea . Depending upon the type of work and conditions that you have , a Fanless may be enough . I believe the " best " fanless was the <URL> . And for cooling pads with a Fan , you 'll have to see and trust the power of <URL> . These generally use a USB port to drive a couple of Fans . Among the best features you can look for are the provision of an extra USB ( so you do n't lose your port ) , portability if you move and sound level of the fans , whether they can be turned on/off , etc. .
The Mid 2012 MacBook Pro can support up to 16GB of RAM by using 2 8GB kits . Both the Retina and non-Retina models ( mid 2012 ) support 16GB of RAM . Per <URL> , you can have <URL> I have personally used the <URL> modules many times with great results . <URL> Since , you said that you already upgraded your drive to an SSD , I assume you know how to remove the bottom cover to access the memory .
<URL> Freeware benchmarking solution for Mac OS X. EDIT : The download link is in the right-hand corner . Main Window Graphics Test
Lifehacker 's <URL> to triple booting has worked well for me in the past . You will also definitely need <URL> . I 've seen varying reports of how well refit works on Lion - it seems to be that if you do n't have FileVault enabled , you should be fine . Obviously make sure to back everything up before starting - any sort of partitioning/boot loader editing/etc is always slightly risky . The basic steps are : Install refit Partition all the necessary partitions ( OS X , Windows , Linux ) . Be careful at this step , it can be very difficult to resize partitions that are n't HFS + . You 'll need three additional partions : Windows , Linux , and Linux swap . Install Windows , then install uBuntu . ( Lastly , this does not invalidate the MBP 's warrantee . )
There are many types of DVI adapter , I could type a load of stuff or just point you at <URL> . The key point is that there is no such thing as a DVI adapter . It 's just a generic term that covers the overall outline of the cable end , but what you really have is either a DVI-I or DVI-D adapter , in either Single or Dual link capability . Or it may be a DVI-A . Or there are others ... ! It 's possible that your splitter cable must be of the dual link types , characterised by the longer horizontal bar pin , and your Thunderbolt adapter may or may not be . Should n't matter which type , either I ( Integrated with analogue signal in the pins above/below the horizontal bar in addition to digital ) or D ( Digital only ) as I imagine you are not subsequently adapting them down to DSUB further down the line , the only thing that matters is if they are both dual link . So it looks like you need a Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort to DVI Dual link - the official apple one is the digital only one without the analogue pins ( DVI-D Dual Link ) , and thus should work , if you are worrying that you do not have the same pinout ( i.e. you have DVI-I Dual Link on your splitter , and it looks as though the analogue ones have nothing to connect to ) then do n't worry , it wo n't need them . EDIT - Additional Info After the comments , I have decided that you have a <URL> connector that looks like this : So what you really need is a MiniDisplay > DMS-59 adapter , and my google-fu suggests that this is not looking like a possibility , I think you would be better served abandoning this cable , and looking for a total replacement , Mini Display Port > 2 x DVI ( Single is fine , I or D if you have 2 ports ) . This may also be a pain to find , and you may end up needing a MDP/Thunderbolt to Dual Link DVI , followed by a Dual Link DVI > 2 X Single Link DVI splitter cable !
On the Mac version of VLC , to see the playback speed , you have to click the Playback menu . It wo n't be shown on the default window . <URL>
You should get a mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter ( sometimes referred to as a Thunderbolt to VGA adapter , but it 's the same thing ) . Apple <URL> , but they can be had elsewhere for less , including at my personal favourite , <URL> . You could do HDMI to VGA , but it would require a ( typically bulky ) active adapter . There are some HDMI to VGA adapters that are n't active , but they rely on graphics card support that Macs do n't have . The DisplayPort to VGA adapters are technically active adapters , but for whatever reason they seem to be much more compact than HDMI to VGA ones . There are USB based display adapters , and some of them have VGA output , but I 'd only recommend them for situations where other outputs are n't available . They 're essentially a USB connected graphics card , which means that performance is lacking , and it takes up CPU and memory resources that the built-in outputs do n't . Useful for some situations , but in your case I 'd stay away .
end question
start question
What 's the best way to extract audio from a video file ?
I finally found the exact combination I needed , and I found it in <URL> . I will expand on the question a bit and spell out the fact that I was already working with mp4 contained video/audio , so MP4 Video ( . m4v ) and AAC Audio ( . m4a ) . I absolutely wanted an as-is version of the audio extracted from the video . First off , it 's pretty easy to install things like ffmpeg , mplayer , things built off them , and similar open source packages nowadays . Between <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and Fink ( does anyone even use fink anymore ? ) , third party software is a snap to install . So , after installing ffmpeg , and having the accessible at the command line , I ran a command like this : ffmpeg : The command . - i videofile.mp4 : The source video file . - vn : Do not record ( do not consider ) video data . - acodec copy : Copy the audio source as-is , here 's where all the magic is . ffmpeg will write the audio data out as various supported codecs , but specifying copy leads a bit-for-bit exact copy of the stream . Coupled with disabling video via - vn leaves you with a lone audio track inside an mp4 container . audiotrack.m4a : The output filename . I ca n't believe something like this was so difficult and hidden for so long . Since I always intend to rip aac audio data out of an mp4 container/video , I wrote a quick little script to do it . Now , I simply invoke and I am left with an audio only version with the same filename , ending in m4a instead . Simple ! For me anyways . No GUIs , lightning fast , this is just one of those things that the command line does better .
Looks like VLC Player is the best option for you right now in regards to subtitles on iOS devices . The site <URL> states : " VLC also includes support for subtitles . Some video formats natively support subtitles while for others , you need a separate . sub file . If you need to add a separate . sub file , name it similar to the video filename , and add it to VLC for iOS via any of the file transfer means described above . VLC will automatically associate the two and show you subtitles . " VLC , on Mac , Windows , and iOS , is as flexible as it gets when it comes to video players , so you ca n't go wrong with it . It also allows you to wirelessly transfer video from your PC to the app , allowing you to bi-pass iTunes and WMA , which is always a plus ;) . Hope that helps !
You can use Disk Utility to create an image of the external hard drive . Plug in the external hard drive and then start Disk Utility -- it 's in the Utilities folder under Applications -- and then select the external hard drive from the list along the lefthand side of the Disk Utility window . Once you 've selected the external drive , click on New Image at the top of the window and it will ask you where you want to store the image file . Select a location and then let it do its thing . Once completed , you can restore the image to the same or another external drive or you can simply double-click the image file to mount the disk and explore its contents using finder as you would normally .
What you are looking for is <URL> . It will allow you to run an app continuously ( auto-start at boot , relaunch when it quits/crash ) To use it add a file in Then load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with launchd Launchctl will run this after reboots .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
I finally found a solution that I 'm happy with : On my NAS appliance , I installed <URL> , which supports contact synchronisation with the <URL> protocol . OS X support CardDAV out of the box . On the Android device I installed <URL> and <URL> ( see the <URL> ) . Both together cost about $ 5 , but there are free versions that also work well with fewer features . Still much less than $ 40 for Missinc Sync or SyncMate . Thus I get the advantages of a cloud solution ( immediate updates , two-way sync ) and get to keep my contacts private .
There are no special steps . Install it using the installer just like you did on your old Mac . When prompted for the activation key , select " activate by phone " and input nothing , keep trying and it should provide a number to call . Microsoft ( unlike Adobe ) does not have an automated system for licence deactivation . This has been a point of great angst among Mac users as it requires them to call Microsoft each and every time they move the Office application from one machine to another . I believe the number in the US is : +1 (800) 936-5700 . Your product support number may vary . <URL> on activation and product key information .
First option , there are some excellent services that provide online backup solutions for a reasonable price . Two examples are <URL> and <URL> . The advantage is that you can set it and forget it , and it will back up all your files ( with options for some things you might want to exclude ) . Another option is using Dropbox . You can move your iPhoto Library from your Pictures folder to the Dropbox folder and alias it to the original location ( drag using ⌘ option to make an alias instead of a copy ) . If you do n't alias it , iPhoto should just ask you where the library is stored when you relaunch it anyway . I do n't really think of services like Flickr as backup , they 're more of an online photo organizer , but yes they can be used that way too . There is no synchronization , so you have to upload your updated files manually .
<URL> should report all clips with alpha channels as 32 bit : You can of course specify wildcards when calling exiftool : <URL> may do this as well if you prefer a GUI app .
Developer of <URL> here . Yes , there 's a very easy way : ⌘ + L ( That 's " Command - L " ) That will temporarily " show " the toolbar ( if it was hidden ) , and select all the text in the URL location field . From there you can copy it , via ⌘ + C. Then , to hide the toolbar , you can press : ⎋ esc ( That 's " Escape " ) If the toolbar was previously hidden , this will hide the toolbar .
FileVault 1 used to do just this but the current FileVault 2 is whole disk encryption . It is technically possible to use the Logical Volume Manager underpinning FV2 to accomplish this , but it 's rather complicated and not supported by Apple or any GUI System Preferences . You could consider using an encrypted disk image created with DiskUtility . This would give you an optionally mountable disk that is encrypted . It appears on the HDD as a large file ( like most installer . dmg files ) and mounts with a double-click and password . This is similar to what FV1 used to do with a user 's home directory .
In addition to Applescript , Automator allows you to create Folder Actions as well , at least in 10.6 . ( This should have been a comment on Philip 's post , but I do n't quite have enough rep for that yet . )
This seems to work on El Capitan . Control-select the file , then Delete Immediately from pop-up menu and confirm .
The answer boils down to how much work the compression algorithm can do to squeeze the file down , and how much quality loss you are willing to tolerate . Dark Knight on Blu-ray uses VC-1 encoding at 24Mbps , and it 's around 27GB on disk . Good thing BDs have so much room ! The goal is to give really good quality . The iPhone encodes things around 17Mbps ( according to the file I just checked ) using h. 264 with the High@L4.1 profile . It has to encode things in real-time because it ca n't stream the raw video to flash . Doing things in real-time limits the amount of work the compressor can do and results in higher file size than slower compression . The iPhone could probably choose to degrade the quality of the video in order to get smaller files , but since you can never get quality back , it makes sense to keep quality there at the beginning . The BD rips you 're talking about have two things in their favor . One is that people are willing to accept a much lower quality than the BD in order to shrink the file size . Also , they have plenty of time to compress the files , so they can easily compress at half or quarter real time . That lets the compression algorithms find a lot more ways to shrink the file size without degrading quality . If you want to store the iPhone videos yourself for later viewing , you can certainly transcode them yourself and shrink them . You probably would not want to use the results for a <URL> but they would be perfectly good for keeping memories .
You can alternatively try to insert your signature in a blank pdf document , crop to take only your signature and then save the document as a PNG file . FYI , it 's seems that the signature is stored in a . plist file . The file name is " com.apple.Preview.signatures.plist " and it 's in folder : / Users/YourAccount/Library / Containers/com . apple.Preview / Data/Library/Preferences / Hope this helps !
No . This is not possible at this time without using a third party app . I use <URL> for this -- and other -- tasks .
There are many open source video editing softwares that you can use to make a video from a still and a song . These are some of the best open source video editing tools that you can use . <URL> Kdenlive Avidemux Also <URL> is a full tutorial to create video from still image and from audio file .
Times have changed since this question was asked . CloudOn has been bought and shut down by DropBox . Currently , the best way to edit Word documents on iOS is with the <URL> app .
The set of available columns appears to be fixed , and there is no language column . But the way to change the set of displayed columns is by contextual menu ( right-click ) on the column headers . ( At least in 12.1 -- Apple seems to take pleasure in making sure we ca n't ever get accustomed to any particular UI for iTunes . ) There is a " category " column which I will use . Not ideal , but better than usurping BPM or grouping . Update : Changed my mind . I can put lang : es ; in Grouping and search for that in a " smart playlist . " That still allows me to put other things in Grouping .
end question
start question
Where is the error message for a failed podcast download ?
Yes , when you are downloading episodes in iTunes 11 , this icon shows up : Click it and you can open your download progress : If downloading fails , an error message will show up to the right of the status bar with an error code . You can Google this code for info . In my experience , this downloader is very unreliable if you have anything else downloading at the same time , or if you allow simultaneous downloads , although if you allow simultaneous downloads it generally finishes quicker if there are no errors .
I do n't know about a specific app to send instant messages ( I doubt one exists ) BUT I like to rename my own shared library something akin to " if you do n't stop stealing my internet I 'll steal your credit card info " . Not that I actually know how to do that , but it usually scares them off my wireless .
I was able to get my Macbook Pro to run the same licensed copy of Windows 7 Ultimate on both Bootcamp and Parallels 5 by activating it on both . I was having trouble running and activating it on my Parallels VM which ran the Bootcamp install . So what I did was change the MAC address of eth0 to match the one from Bootcamp . Once I changed that , I called Microsoft and activated via their automated system , which generated a set of numbers/code for me .
iOS 7 , which is now in the wild , can indeed show timestamps for every message . Just slide your finger right to left in a conversation . Image : <URL> ( I literally yelled " finally ! " while sitting at my desk when I read about this . )
Nowadays , this seems to be more of a timing issue , and I think Apple has improved the system overall . Basically , it 's no longer an issue .
Tap on the status bar will bring you to the top of the message . A quick way to get to the call button .
Go to <URL> If you are still not Update Program License Agreement , do n't forget to do it : In the top left , select iOS 8 Beta Scroll down and search for Xcode 6 beta
Select the List tab : Click on the disclosure arrow to expand the subscription ( if it 's not already expanded ) : Click on the download button at the top of the list : Click OK to start downloading all episodes :
This is a feature introduced with the <URL> . Accessibility improvements : Option to light LED flash on incoming calls and alerts for iPhone 4S and iPhone 4 Custom vibration patterns for incoming calls on iPhone New interface for using iOS with mobility-impairment input devices Option to speak a selection of text Custom element labeling for VoiceOver You can change the setting in Settings - > General - > Accessibility options :
If you have asked Siri to Send a new Message to some person , Siri Normally asks " Do you want me to send it " when it thinks you have finished . Saying " Send " normally works . And Siri will say " Ok then I will send the Text message . . " I do not think there is a way to do it after you have used dictation . Apples dictations <URL>
You can use the following AppleScript : I would save this AppleScript as application and execute it whenever you want : Open the application " AppleScript Editor " in the Utility folder . Paste the code above . Set " podcast_name " to the name of the podcast you want to update . Save the Apple Script as application . To schedule this AppleScript , you can get hints at the <URL> I found .
Not ideal but : Go into Preferences : Signatures , create a new Signature , erase the name and e-mail address , and hit Enter once to create a blank line . Then check the " Place signature above quoted text " box . Note : once a signature has been saved with actual text , Mail wo n't let you blank it out , so make sure you do this with a new sig , rather than editing an old one .
All volumes , including DMGs , are mounted in . You can get a list of mounted volumes by typing in Terminal . You can navigate to a Disk Image using .
Apple has published <URL> . Unless you are a registered developer , you should contact Apple and they can assist with proper logos and artwork .
2 ways I can think of , neither particularly ' fun ' The ' one rule ' method Disable all rules bar one put the ' mistreated ' email back in the inbox Run the single rule see if it moves the email rinse &amp; repeat the ' sounds ' method Add a new line to each existing rule - Play Sound repeat for each rule , using a different sound move the email back to the inbox &amp; Apply Rules a late posible 3rd ... eliminate by halves [ based on 1 , but better for a large number of rules ] but this requires that no rule will halt the entire process with " Stop evaluating rules " . Add a rule halfway down the list that will play a sound if it processes that far . test by halves , disabling rules &amp; moving the sound to the ' silent ' half each time
The only way filesystem errors like those you describe could be copied onto a different disk ( e.g. your Time Machine volume ) is if the whole disk partition or whole drive were copied at the block level using or something like Carbon Copy Cloner . Time Machine does n't work that way , so its stored backups should be free from the filesystem errors and the files it restores should be free from them as well .
It looks like this iPod does n't have this feature : it 's not mentioned in the manual ( <URL> ) - even in the index . However , you can go to all items starting with a certain letter . From the manual ( on page 20 ) : If the list you 're browsing has an index , drag your finger down the index to show a large letter superimposed over the list . When you reach the letter you want , lift your finger .
Settings App - > Notifications - > Messages - > Repeat Alerts change that to " never . " :-) Let me know if that helped ...
Look for the " Stand " menu to appear between the " Window " and " Help " menus in your top menu bar .
Quoting from <URL> , from Apple 's website : Touch ID only allows five unsuccessful fingerprint match attempts before you must enter your passcode , and you ca n't proceed until doing so . You then get ten attempts at your passcode before the device erases , but these are counted separately from attempts to authenticate with Touch ID . This is slightly different from the other answer : After three attempts , the iPhone will present the passcode screen , but you can still have two more tries at authenticating with Touch ID . After five attempts , Touch ID is disabled until you successfully enter your passcode . Apple 's security documents do n't mention a setting to erase the device after failed Touch ID attempts , and I 'm not aware of one . I do n't believe that iOS devices would erase themselves after five unsuccessful attempts , at least not with the current version of iOS .
end question
start question
Wireless or bluetooth stero for streaming from imac ?
In short , Apple 's proprietary version of DLNA , which they call AirPlay , is based on WiFi hardware . Bluetooth speakers , obviously use Bluetooth hardware . WiFi has a far greater bandwidth , so go with that . You should n't have any problems . In theory , Bluetooth could work , but in many implementations bandwidth can be limited , so it 's not uncommon for your audio to be decoded from its original format ( mp3 aac etc. ) by your player ( iPod , iPad etc. ) , then re-encoded to an intermediate format for transfer over BT , and then decoded once again before actual playback . This extra encoding step obviously degrades the quality . This does n't happen with AirPlay . Since the bandwidth of WiFi is much larger than any implementation of Bluetooth , even if the audio file is decompressed on the player side , it could be sent to the receiver without any re-compression at all .
They are on one of the installation disks that comes with your iMac . Also , I 'm pretty sure the drivers get installed if you download and run a " <URL> " from Apple 's support site . They are usually 200MB or up downloads that come packed with drivers for windows , so give it a try in case you ca n't find your cds .
Time Machine would be the most reliable of the two . CCC is brilliant for cloning to the same hardware , but it 's not really meant to cross to newer hardware , as it has no ' installer ' process to prepare for the new hardware/OS drivers . However , a better option may be ... You can migrate directly from the old Mac to the new , as part of the " welcome to your new Mac " introduction , if both can be on the network at the same time .
The fastest way using spotlight is to add to the search term in the spotlight field . You can use booleans , metadata tags like or and more as described in <URL> I always forget about these and instead use the search window to build up a boolean criteria rather than use the default spotlight menu search ( where all the other data detectors compete to provide you relevant matches ) Instead of command + space try option + command + space Then click the circle + on the right by Save and override the " Any " with " Folder " I do n't know a way to automate or save this further as the default , but it 's a way that will work on all Macs .
I assume your problem resides in the fact that Photos app is taking too much space on your iPad . If this is the issue , your best solution for managing space and keeping a synced Photo Library across devices is to enable Optimise iPad Storage under Settings - > Photos &amp; Camera - > Optimise iPad Storage on your iPad . The Photos app on your iPad will then manage which photos are kept at high resolution and which are just stored as thumbnails . You can also activate the same preference on your Mac 's Photos app , under Photos - > Preferences - > iCloud Tab - > Optimise Mac Storage on the top bar . Unfortunately , there 's no way to delete a photo exclusively in one device once iCloud Photo Library is enabled .
Firewire 400 will be considerably faster than USB in this case , as FW has its own dedicated chipset , whereas USB requires CPU time and shares its bus with all other USB devices .
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
No iPhone has native support for apt-X , but you can buy a dongle such as the <URL> or a similar one from Creative to enable apt-X support .
See my <URL> on whether you can actually use the RAM and how to check how much RAM your computer is using at the moment . It may be the case that you are n't even using what you currently have . With regard to the RAM voltages , I 'm not sure why they would be different apart from the sticks being slightly different designs . You would be best off matching the sticks you buy to whatever voltage your current RAM is though .
If you go to the Apple logo : Then : click ' About This Mac ' This opens a window with four tabs . The ' overview ' tab shows the current system you are running .
These search terms : bluetooth mouse , os x Most Bluetooth mice work well with OS X.
Your model iMac has a Serial ATA ( 6 Gb/s ) connector for a 2.5 " hard drive and a PCIe connector ( PCIe 2.0 x4 NVMexpress interface ) for the SSD . For best compatibility I suggest you purchase your SSD from a reputable retailer . For example , the following are some well-regarded sites : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> By buying from a reputable store you 'll be sure to get an SSD fit for purpose , regardless of manufacturer . Being reputable means they 're only going to sell something that works and they 'll stand behind the product they sell , regardless of the brand . Also , many sites offer an easy interface to ensure you select the right SSD for your particular Mac .
<URL> I have purchased and evaluated a newly released program called Reflector App ( which runs on your Mac ) that does everything I need it to do . It costs US $ 15 and works using Apple Airplay on your iOS device , so it supports iPad 2 , iPad 3 , and iPhone 4S . It makes its own QuickTime recordings with audio and video . If you have a good connection with a WiFi N router ( such as my Apple Time Capsule ) and an Ethernet connection to your Mac , you get a frame rate good enough to record yourself playing Angry Birds , at full iPad screen size . It records audio and video from your iPad . This app is quite new and small updates are being released frequently . The documentation is sketchy but the tech support via email is responsive . You can download a trial version that will only work for 10 minutes total ; after that you must pay for the app . It 's not available in the Mac App Store and I suspect it wo n't be . You can purchase it directly from the web site .
Yes , it wo n't hurt the iMac . In fact they can even be used sideways , as long as you do n't block any vents . Hard drive bearings are said to last longest when they are either upright or flat , but apart from the convection-cooled Mac Cube I do n't know of any Mac that depends on orientation for cooling or anything else . If you are putting them away for any length of time , get some <URL> packets or a " <URL> " or local equivalent to ensure humidity does not speed corrosion or otherwise damage your machines . Wrap them tightly in plastic to prevent critters crawling in , there is nothing worse than finding something living in your old computer . Dead bodies or other debris may be corrosive or conductive . If your iMac is the CRT kind consider cutting a panel out of plywood to protect the glass screen . CRTs are hard to smash but easy to scratch or chip . If you are putting away anything really precious ( iMac signed by the Steves ? ) best practice is sealing the computer in an environment of dry nitrogen gas - it 's a serious measure but not actually that hard to do since airtight bags are easy to find and nitrogen is becoming common in <URL> . Removing oxygen prevents oxidisation ( rust ) and will also make it impossible for creatures to colonise your Mac since they can not live without oxygen . In the last decade the <URL> has seen the use of lead-free solder increase . One big problem with this is the growth of " <URL> " from the solder and other circuit elements that can bridge what should be gaps between circuit paths . While the exact cause of whiskers and the right way to prevent their growth post-manufacturing is still unknown there are minority suggestions that vacuum or nitrogen environments help - but from my reading , a temperature-controlled or even cycling environment is more likely to be effective . When the exact facts are known the right way to store computers long-term will probably change . But it 's sad to think that there is a risk to our machines even if they are well cared-for . <URL> so this applies to them . Older machines may well be manufactured using lead solder and so tin whiskers would not be an issue . I could not find a definitive answer .
Steam . With steam , you 'll be able to play it on Windows too , should you ever have the need . The same ca n't be said for the MAS , which only offers the Mac version . It 's a nice bit of future-proofing , incase you ever get a Windows PC in the future . To put it simply , you get more for your money .
The memory for the MacBook Pro 8,1 ; 8,2 and 8,3 is the same as for the iMac 12,1 and 12,2 . Just as a point of clarity , the models possible are : Early 2011 MacBook Pro Late 2011 MacBook Pro Mid 2011 iMac Late 2011 iMac
100 % CPU utilization will not directly be harmful to your laptop . Heat , however , can be . Your MacBook Pro does have several internal temperature sensors that will turn on the internal fan and finally halt the machine should it get too hot . You can see the temperature each sensor is reading by using this free program : <URL> You should still use some type of cooling stand if possible . My 2007 MacBook Pro suffered a broken display from what I believe to be a heat related issue . After heavy use and high CPU utilization the bottom of the display would get very hot . Then , the screen would start to flicker slightly ( but only when the laptop was running hot ) . Eventually , the screen had to be replaced . Using a laptop stand with multiple fans kept my machine running cool enough to prevent the issue from happening again . Also , you do have some control over how much CPU a process gets . For that you can use BeNicer , another free piece of software : <URL>
I am sorry to say that I am unaware of any apps ( jailbroken or otherwise ) that add keyboard navigation to the iPad . According to <URL> , the following shortcuts do work : ⌘ C Copy selected text ⌘ X Cut selected text ⌘ V Paste ⌘ Z Undo ⌘ shiftZ Redo ⌘ ↑ Go to top of document ⌘ ↓ Go to bottom of document ⌘ ← Go to start of line ⌘ → Go to end of line ⌘ ⌫ Delete to end of line ⌥ ⌫ Delete previous word F1 Make screen dimmer F2 Make screen brighter F7 Skip back one song F8 Play or Pause Music F9 Skip forward one song F10 Mute Volume F11 Decrease Volume F12 Increase Volume ⏏ Show or hide onscreen keyboard
Shutdown vs. Sleep is a constant question . It used to be that shutting down the early OS X machines caused issues with timed log cleanup routines . That 's pretty much a non-issue these days as the OS recognizes when the routines have n't run and will reschedule them . Another concern has been restarting to free up memory or just make the machine more stable . This has been overcome to a degree by the sandboxing of apps so that they do n't intrude on each other 's memory footprint , etc. . The other big consideration is cost . Apple does a good job of making sleep efficient , but it is still uses 4x-5x more power than shutdown ( also known as idle ) . This is dependent on your Mac ( iMac = 4x and Mac Mini = 5x ) . You can read more about this on <URL> and select the report for your Mac . Also , shutting down a Mac still causes some power drain and is referred to as " idle " by Apple . Consider that it always needs power because you can set your Mac to automatically shutdown at a certain time and startup at a certain time ( System Preferences > Energy Saver > Schedule ) . For me , I set automated sleep and wake times and almost never reboot .
As mentioned in the Apple Discussion Forums , like <URL> for example , the iPhone does not have ( and never has had ) support for file transfers over Bluetooth . Here are the <URL> listing the types of operations possible .
end question
start question
How to get Safari crash report ?
I find it easiest to use the settings app on iOS : General About Diagnostics &amp; Usage Diagnostics &amp; Usage Data scroll to the crash you care about and tap it select all , copy the text Now you can paste the report wherever you please . Email , <URL> , notes , <URL> , or wherever else you like to store the text for submitting a <URL> . You can also get at the logs after syncing from iTunes or Xcode - but getting it when the crash happens works best for me in most cases .
It turns out that in 10.7.3 , installing Chromium/Google Chrome from another account causes this bug . Simply installing it while using the account it will be used in solves the problem . Unfortunately , no other accounts can use it .
Open Mail.app , then go to Mail in the top menu > Preferences > Viewing > Uncheck " Use Smart Addresses " . This should display the full name of the contact plus the email address .
I do n't know about permanently , but you can hold down the option key when clicking on a link , and that will always download it instead of opening it . Similarly , if you put a URL into the address bar and type option-return , that will download it as well .
The first thing that I would do is to check in the iPhones Diagnostics reports . In Preferences go to General > About > Diagnostics &amp; Usage . There might be information about your crash there . Your other option is to install Crash Reporter and syslogd from Cydia . You would be able to get some information about crashes there . If you 're having trouble even getting to Cydia , try disabling MobileSubstrate , those plugins tend to cause a lot of crashes on jailbroken devices .
Using the post that <URL> <URL> , I 've written a Safari/Chrome extension that adds a button to the context menu ( right click ) on every page , which allows you to " pause " scrolling , essentially locking the page in place . To unlock it , you just right click and choose " Resume Scrolling . " You can download it <URL> .
There 's no such possibility . App developer would need to implement this in the app . P.S. . You can open links from Facebook in Safari - > click " Share " when viewing the link and choose " Open in Safari " . <URL> Image from : <URL>
Add a rule like this to : The is required because a div has an inline style attribute that overrides the fonts in .
You can disable the Guest account at startup in System Preferences - > Security &amp; Privacy - > Advanced ( the button at the bottom of the screen . The checkbox says " Disable restarting to Safari when screen is locked " . I believe that it leaves the iCloud settings unchanged . This works without changing iCloud .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
I 'm afraid there is n't a solution currently available for this . I 've been using Nike + alongside Spotify for over a year now by starting my Spotify playlist then starting a run in Nike + and selecting " no music " . I used to use iTunes playlists which worked with the power song feature and while that was kinda cool it 's really not something I miss . You might email them through their support page ( could n't find a feedback form ) and mention it as a feature for future revisions . <URL>
The action for emptying caches was moved to the develop menu : You can still see resources in the web inspector : To download YouTube videos , reload the page after opening the web inspector and double-click the resource . To download it , you have to focus the location bar and press ⌥ ↩ . ⌘ S only saves some metadata .
The new Web Inspector was made to be a bit closer to Xcode . There is no direct way to get the old one back , without reverting to other means . For example : running Lion in a VM ( to run an older Safari ) . Running a nightly build of WebKit - but this may only have the new inspector Using Chrome ( while still WebKit , it still uses something that seemed closer to me like the old inspector ) . So no , at this time , it does n't look like its possible to revert back to an ' older ' version of the inspector . The best bet would be to submit bugs at <URL> . If it is missing features that the old one had , possibly future revisions would bring some of this back .
If it is the application you developed , you can access it from <URL> which is called iTunes Connect , and that 's how you should have uploaded your app to Apple in the first place . You can also try a piece of software called <URL> , which is essentially a portal to iTunes Connect , which I find easier to use and with more features . Also : after not renewing your iPhone Developer licence , your apps will stay in iTunes Connect for some period of time , probably around a year before being deleted .
Exactly . To delete an Application that is not sandboxed ( not downloaded from App Store ) you have to go in and delete the Application File .
There are a few Safari Extensions that will enable this : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Unfortunately , no - Safari uses quite a few system-level frameworks that are vastly different between those OSes .
If AutoFill is disabled , Safari wo n't ask to save passwords either .
Manually enter your username and password . Tap " Passwords " right above your keyboard . Tap " Save This Password . " It still wo n't autofill when you first load the page , but now you can tap in the username field and hit " Autofill Password . " There seems to be no way to actually reset the " Never for this site " setting . Sounds like a job for <URL> .
In Safari 9.0 ( El Capitano ) you can right-click on the URL while holding down the option key and you then have the option to open the URL in a new private window . This option is provided from regular or private windows , unlike what appears to be the case in previous versions of Safari . <URL>
end question
start question
Why might an Apple TV stop playing purchased content from iTunes ?
The explanation I got from Apple is there is some maintenance being performed on an iTunes server this weekend , which is affecting AppleTV 's ability to authorize content . Even if you are streaming directly from your PC/MAC to the AppleTV , there is still some validation with the iTunes store that occurs . In the meantime , you can use Airplay to continue to stream content to your AppleTV . More info on using Airplay can be found here : <URL> .
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
Search for the App in the iTunes store ( OS X or iOS as appropriate ) and then look for the stars to rate and then write a detailed review . You should be asked to sign in to your Apple ID and you must have purchased the app to write a review . If you received a gift or promotional copy , you might not be able to write a review in some cases . The Write a Review text is below the ScreenShots section so you may need to scroll the content up to see the link to submit a review .
Yes ... Works with my Iphone 4s and latest Apple TV
This is actually a default setting by Google that can be changed . To change this setting Go to your <URL> settings found in the top right under the gear icon . Select the Calendar tabs Click the Shared : Edit settings link for the calendar you want to edit . Select the Notifications tab Click the remove link next to the reminders you do n't want . Please note that this will only fix events created from this point forward , you will still have to change all the notifications in events that were previously setup .
Well , not a lawyer here , but you could infer that your use would be considered acceptable use based on the following information , as long as you do n't use any paid content ( content obtained as part of a paid developer program ) in these presentations : <URL> has a question titled " What are the terms and conditions of being a Registered Apple Developer ? " , the answer for which points to the <URL> . The agreement PDF talks about publicly available information and confidentiality here : 4 . Confidentiality . You agree that any Apple pre-release software and/or hardware ( including related documentation and materials ) provided to you as a Registered Apple Developer ( " Pre-Release Materials " ) and any information disclosed by Apple to you in connection with Apple Events or Paid Content ( defined below ) will be considered and referred to as " Apple Confidential Information " . Notwithstanding the foregoing , Apple Confidential Information will not include : ( i ) information that is generally and legitimately available to the public through no fault or breach of yours , ( ii ) information that is generally made available to the public by Apple , ( iii ) information that is independently developed by you without the use of any Apple Confidential Information , ( iv ) information that was rightfully obtained from a third party who had the right to transfer or disclose it to you without limitation , or ( v ) any third party software and/or documentation provided to you by Apple and accompanied by licensing terms that do not impose confidentiality obligations on the use or disclosure of such software and/or documentation . Note the exclusion of " ( ii ) information that is generally made available to the public by Apple " from the list of Apple Confidential Information . Also , when you browse through the documentation online ( or download a PDF ) , they do n't state those as Apple Confidential Information . However , you are allowed to disclose Apple Confidential Information to other employees/contractors who are also registered Apple developers . The agreement PDF also deals with Apple Confidential Information disclosure here : 5 . Nondisclosure and Nonuse of Apple Confidential Information . Unless otherwise expressly agreed or permitted in writing by Apple , you agree not to disclose , publish , or disseminate any Apple Confidential Information to anyone other than to other Registered Apple Developers who are employees and contractors working for the same entity as you and then only to the extent that Apple does not otherwise prohibit such disclosure . Except for your authorized purposes as a Registered Apple Developer or as otherwise expressly agreed or permitted by Apple in writing , you agree not to use Apple Confidential Information in any way , including , without limitation , for your own or any third party 's benefit without the prior written approval of an authorized representative of Apple in each instance . You further agree to take reasonable precautions to prevent any unauthorized use , disclosure , publication , or dissemination of Apple Confidential Information . You acknowledge that unauthorized disclosure or use of Apple Confidential Information could cause irreparable harm and significant injury to Apple that may be difficult to ascertain . Accordingly , you agree that Apple will have the right to seek immediate injunctive relief to enforce your obligations under this Agreement in addition to any other rights and remedies it may have . If you are required by law , regulation or pursuant to the valid binding order of a court of competent jurisdiction to disclose Apple Confidential Information , you may make such disclosure , but only if you have notified Apple before making such disclosure and have used commercially reasonable efforts to limit the disclosure and to seek confidential , protective treatment of such information . A disclosure pursuant to the previous sentence will not relieve you of your obligations to hold such information as Apple Confidential Information . The agreement prohibits you from sharing paid content available as part of a paid developer program with anyone ( including other employees in your organization ) here : 7 . Paid Content License and Restrictions . As a Registered Apple Developer , you may have access to certain proprietary content ( including , without limitation , video presentations and audio recordings ) that Apple may make available to you from time to time for a separate fee ( " Paid Content " ) . Paid Content shall be considered Apple Confidential Information , unless otherwise agreed or permitted in writing by Apple . You may not share the Paid Content with anyone , including , without limitation , employees and contractors working for the same entity as you , regardless of whether they are Registered Apple Developers . Subject to these terms and conditions , Apple grants you a personal and nontransferable license to access and use the Paid Content for authorized purposes as a Registered Apple Developer ; provided that you ma
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
The AppleScript for this is pretty simple : You can make this easily accessible by creating a Service . Open Automator and create a new document . Select the Service document type . Set the Service receives : menu to . Drag in a module and paste that code into its text box . Save the service and give it a name . You 'll now be able to activate it by going to the current app 's menu and choosing Services - > Stop iTunes ( or whatever you named the service ) . You can assign a keyboard shortcut by going to System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Services , finding the service ( it should be under General at the bottom ) and adding a shortcut .
Yes , they are unlocked , The price is going to be substantially higher since its not the subsidized price . They will work with any compatible GSM carriers including prepaid providers . Some carriers ( for instance T-Mobile USA ) currently operate at a different radio frequency for their 3G data than the iPhone supports , so although being able to access data over the EDGE network ( slower network that is used on virtually all GSM networks ) , it will not be able to take advantage of those 3G data services . Purchases from the apple store online can only be shipped to the country of that specific apple store . So if you live in an area where they do n't offer the unlocked versions of the phone , for instance in USA , the only way you would be able to get the unlocked version would be through someone who can have it shipped to their country . I am assuming that the factory unlocked versions being sold on eBay are from people who have realized this . Hope this makes sense . Check out the FAQ section of the iPhone product page at the Canada Apple Online store which can probably answer any other similar questions . <URL>
You will no longer be able to download like you currently do , and in effect , iTunes will act like Match was never on . You will be able to keep any songs you downloaded , though . So if you upgraded files you uploaded that matched to iTunes-Plus-type files , then you keep those once it cancels .
Ability to see per-application sound output : Check out <URL> Within Chrome , you can use the <URL> extension to see what tabs/windows are playing audio .
According to the Apple Developer <URL> ( and <URL> ) , App Nap can be opted out by either an Application developer or a user , but by default are active . For a GUI application , the user can opt an application out of App Nap manually with a checkbox in the Finder " Get Info ... " pane . Timer Coalescing only becomes active when on battery power , so it should not affect your long running background processes . Finally , you can check on the status of App Nap in the Activity Monitor . On the Energy Tab , there is a column describing App Nap status for each application , so if policies change , you can check actual status here .
Yes , doing a restore , similar to how one does this on an iOS device , will reset it to the factory default settings and install . You do this by going to Settings - > General - > Reset , and selecting restore . If that doesnt work , you can also plug it into a computer with Micro USB , and use iTunes to restore . More information is available in this <URL> .
You probably wo n't like this answer , but as far as I know , there is no legal way to burn those episodes onto a DVD in a way that is playable in your DVD player . The problem is that the iTunes episodes are encrypted with Apple 's FairPlay DRM and DVD players do not know how to decrypt them . In order to make the videos playable in a DVD player , you would need to circumvent the DRM and this is illegal in many countries . As an alternative , you could buy an AppleTV and hook it up to your television . At $ 99 , it is a relatively inexpensive investment , and it would allow you to stream your iTunes shows to your TV while keeping your laptop and iPad free for your own use .
Yep . You can have your Apple TV learn the remote codes of any IR remote by going to Settings > General > Remotes . It will then ask you to hit buttons on your new remote corresponding to what it shows on screen . Full instructions can be found at Apple 's site : <URL>
Have a look around the web for disassembly . From a quick look , it appears there is room to drill a hole below the battery for the silver remote . The newer generation black remote is much more contained , but there is room in the bottom corners of the remote below the battery . I 'd recommend disassembling and removing adjacent parts before drilling . Update : Very late reply but for the TV2 remote it should be an all-aluminum body below the battery . I drilled a 1/8 " hole through the bottom left .
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
An iCloud account , iTunes account and Apple ID are all the same thing . Apple just refers to them a bit inconsistently . You can ( and typically should ) have a single Apple ID for all of them , unless you specifically need to separate them out . Account " Types " iCloud Account Typically refers to the Apple ID that is used for iCloud services , such as backup and syncing documents and settings between apps . This is set in Settings → iCloud → Account . iTunes Account The Apple ID that you use to purchase downloads from the iTunes , iBooks and App Stores and what syncs your iTunes Match songs , if you use that service . It 's set in Settings → iTunes &amp; App Stores → Apple ID . It 's important to note that your purchases are linked to your Apple ID ( although music is now DRM-free ) , and are not transferrable to other Apple IDs . So you should be sure to make all your app , video and music purchases on a single Apple ID to save yourself future headaches . iMessage Your Apple ID is also used for iMessage . Set in Settings → Messages → Send &amp; Receive . Using Multiple Accounts You can be signed in to different accounts for each of these services , which can be useful if , for example , you want to have a single family account for iTunes purchases , but keep your iCloud and iMessages separate . Other Information Apple has a few support pages that are helpful for untangling all the intricacies of the Apple ID : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Check if you have the new Gmail app installed . Every time it gets a new email , it triggers the " iphone Text Message sound " . The sound can be disabled via Settings app > Notifications > Gmail > uncheck Sound .
No , previous versions of the AppleTV do not support the new Apple Music service . In order to use the service with AppleTV , you 'll need to either 1 ) stream from a compatible device , such as an iPhone / iPad / Mac , or 2 ) upgrade to the latest 4th generation AppleTV .
end question
start question
Is VMWare Fusion bought through the MacUpdate Spring 2012 Bundle a full valid version ?
In addition to the answer of Diago , I got this from <URL> : What 's the catch ? There is n't one ! You get the exact same versions of the apps as if you paid full price ! The same support , update , and upgrade options are available to you , as well . So , yes ! Buying the spring bundle will give you a full valid version !
You need 10.6 Server . It does not help to change the settings to 10.6 Server , you have to use 10.6 Server as operating system on the USB-Stick ... or you can try some hacks , e.g. Hackintosh ( search for it in Google ) in a virtual environment but that 's a little bit more complicated you can check <URL> for this .
In my experience , the answer is no . As soon as you plug in the headphones into the 3.5 mm jack , it replaces the internal speakers as the default output ( and vice versa when you unplug them ) . There are several <URL> <URL> as to whether this is actually a limitation in the hardware or the software , but the end result always seems to be the same . Now this may not answer specifically what you 're asking , but for interest , the only time I 've had any success with simultaneous headphone and speaker output is when using a USB device , such as a headset or USB speakers . In order to get this to work , you 'll need to plug in the USB device , then do the following : Start the Apple " Audio MIDI Setup " utility ( ) Select the " + " in the bottom-left and select " Create Multi-Output Device " Select the Multi-Output Device that has been added and in the right-hand pane , select both the " Built-in Ouput " and your USB device . That should look something like this : Start " System Preferences " → " Sound " and click the " Output " tab . Select the " Multi-Output Device " thats now there . An unfortunate side-effect of this , as " The selected device has no output controls " eludes to is that you now ca n't control the volume in the normal manner . To do this , you 'll have to go back to Audio MIDI Setup and do it from there for each of the outputs . So be careful with those headset and speaker levels to begin with !!! And thats it :) So , now when you play a song in iTunes , for instance , that should come out of both the headset and the speakers . However , whilst all this may be largely academic without a USB headset or speakers , I did also come across the <URL> which says : iMic supports both mic and line level inputs via a selectable switch , and provides a line-level output for connecting speakers or headphones . I 've not tried it , but if you 're willing to spend the money , that may allow you to connect a pair of headphones with a normal 3.5 mm jack then , using the method above , get audio out of both the internal speakers and the headphones simultaneously .
Already asked at <URL> ( Credits to the OP ) . I post the answer here again - slightly modified : There is no version of VMware Player for OS X. Instead , VMware sells a Mac version of their product called <URL> . You may use it as trial version 30 days for free If you do n't want to purchase VMware Fusion , you can : Use Boot Camp to some other OS . The OS itself should run fine . Use Boot Camp and run vmplayer from the other OS . ( Untested since I do not have a OS/X host ) Use <URL> . VirtualBox can use virtual hard disks in VMware 's VMDK format ( <URL> ) .
Ars Technica did an <URL> and one that <URL> of an Apple installed Fusion drive from a Mac Mini . From that article : As you can see , the recovery partition is " outside " the Core Storage volume which gets mounted by the OS and functions as " the Fusion Drive " . The Fusion Drive is comprised of one standard partition from each disk , rather than using the full drive and storing the configuration data out of or in-band by hiding it . Everything we know so far about standard Fusion Drives is pretty straightforward and transparent .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
After talking to VMware support , there are two possible solutions to this problem : Open your Mac 's system preferences , go to Energy Saver and disable the option " Put hard disks to sleep when possible " . With that option deactivated , I had no sleep wake failures . Pause or suspend your virtual machines prior to sending your Mac to sleep .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
You 'll have all of your apps for the life of your iTunes account , and you can download them again at any time for no charge . The only exception is apps that have been removed from the App Store for legal reasons -- generally copyright violation of some form -- or if they 're removed by Apple due to some rules violation , both of which are very rare . Apple has been gradually improving its App Store interfaces so it 's easier to determine which apps you already own . Until recently if you saw an app in the store that you already purchased the link to access it would still have the price : if you clicked it and you already owned it you 'd be presented with a dialog that indicated that you 'd already purchased it and asked if you just wanted to download it again . As of now the App Store app on the iPad now intelligently replaces the price with " installed " if you have it installed ( and , I believe , " install " if you 've purchased it but it 's not on the device ) , and the very latest iPhone App Store app seems to be doing it now , too . iTunes 10.3 appears to be doing it as well .
Ok , so after some quick googling and reading some Apple forums , it looks like iCloud ( in iOS 5 . x ) is n't ready for prime time . I 've done the following and now iOS 5.x seems a lot snappier . Disabled iCloud everywhere ( Settings - > iCloud ) Disable all apps then Scroll down and hit " Storage and Backup " and disable iCloud backups . If you really want to go strong , just delete your iCloud account setting ( on your phone , Settings - > iCloud - > scroll to bottom ) Disabled sending data to Apple ( Settings - > General - > About - > Diagnostic &amp; Usage - > " Do n't send " ) Minimized Location Services ( Settings - > Location services ) I kept it ON globally , but disabled it for certain Apps Most importantly , disabled it for " Diagnostic &amp; Usage " as well as " Location based iAds " ( Settings - > Location services - > Scroll to bottom - > System Services ) Disabled notifications for the calendar ( Settings - > Notification ) I also removed notifications for many other apps that had added themselves ... However , I suspect this is fixed in iOS 5.0.1 under their " Battery issue fixed " patch . Earlier , Calendar notifications would hang causing CPU to be stuck 100 % , draining the battery and leaving little CPU for other items . Also , there are two apps , SysStatsMon and System Status . Both are good tools to see CPU usage on your iOS device . About 5 + seconds after launching them under normal circumstances , your CPU should be in the 5-15 % range .
Technically , it would be possible . But apple does n't offer an upgrade price , so you 're only option is buying the screen for the rather high " stock " price . Selling yours on ebay and getting a model you want is probably cheaper
You 're probably looking for Skype 2.8.0.866 ( PPC ) , which you can find searching the <URL> website . It was released on 29 November , 2010 . Supported Systems : Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard ( PowerPC )
According to this footnote on an Apple <URL> : iPad models are unlocked and may support LTE networks outside the country of purchase when using a valid SIM from a supported carrier . Contact your carrier for more details . Based on this information , your iPad should work on international networks using a local SIM , with the caveat that the local network provides data service in the bands that your iPad supports . The AT&amp;T and Verizon models support different bands , as noted on <URL> : Model A1459 * GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1460 * CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 ) The iPad Mini supports similar bands .
Your computer has 2 cores , but 4 logical processors . What you are seeing is Intel 's <URL> . This technology puts multiple logical processors on a single core , so that each core can run multiple threads at once . The difference between this and multiple cores is that hyper-threading only duplicates the parts of the processor which control the current state , not the actual execution unit , but multiple cores duplicate everything . This means that your computer will run like it has four cores only if the threads on each core are using different parts of the execution unit , but if the exact same thing was running on both threads in a single core , it would n't be any faster than a two-core system without hyper-threading .
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
Yes , you can create a fusion drive on older Macs , described in full length <URL> : You obviously need both an SSD and a HD . Let 's assume they are known to the OS as disk1 and disk7 to create it and take note of the Logical Volume Group ID
Pressing on both machines will exit the migration assistant . I have a feeling that it copies all files to temporary location before installing them/creating user accounts . So you should be fine . Depending on how far in you might have problems .
Okay , I found out where it 's located - So , open it up ( VMWare should n't be running while you do this ) : Go down in the file , there should be a section like : Uncomment that last line , and edit as appropriate . Couple of notes : These instructions are for TCP port forwarding , there 's a corresponding section for UDP If for some reason this section does n't already exist , just add it
In addition to the answer of Diago , I got this from <URL> : What 's the catch ? There is n't one ! You get the exact same versions of the apps as if you paid full price ! The same support , update , and upgrade options are available to you , as well . So , yes ! Buying the spring bundle will give you a full valid version !
It appears you can start Fusion headless by executing the following : / Applications/VMware \ Fusion.app / Contents/Library/vmrun - T fusion start ~ / Documents/Virtual \ Machines.localized / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmwarevm / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmx nogui You could also add to your $ PATH or create an alias to have easier access to the command . You can find more info on the command in <URL> . While a bit out-dated , it should still contain relevant information on how to start and stop your server . If you are interested in running headless Linux servers for your development environment etc , I can also highly recommend to use VirtualBox instead . It is free , has extensive command-line support , and while running headless VMs Fusion loses most if its advantages ( seamless GUI integration ) over VirtualBox anyway . What 's more , tools like <URL> can even facilitate running these environments to a much greater extent . With the addition of a paid add-on ( " provider " ) , Vagrant can control VMWare as well as VirtualBox for you <URL> .
end question
start question
Is Mac OS X keeping constant track of my processes ?
Simplified explanation : When an application is started , an entry is written to disk that says this app is currently active . When an application quits , that entry is removed . When the system starts and finds entries in this list , it 's an indicator that the system crashed or did not shut down properly and it can offer to relaunch those apps for you . It takes virtually no practical overhead at all to track this . Each application individually may also be tracking which documents you opened pretty much the same way and then reopen your documents when it is being launched . There 's no need to " constantly track the state of everything " , the system just needs to make a few notes here and there when key events happen ( such as an application launching or quitting ) .
I do n't know if this was really the solution but it seemed to work . I opened the computer , took out the CPU board and blew the dust off it and the fans and the entire computer . Apparently that did it . Maybe I should do that once a year . The last time I cleaned the computer was last year when I put more memory in .
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
According to a <URL> , FileVault 2 is not FIPS 140-2 validated , but " Apple 's new Common Crypto implementation is just starting to undergo FIPS evaluation " The code itself for Common Crypto is available at <URL> and has been all the way back to 10.4 ( where I got tired of checking revisions - it probably goes back even further , but what matters is the code shipped in Lion which is available for all three lion releases 10.7 , 10.7.1 and 10.7.2 )
I 've been in communication with the creator of Chax , and no , it does n't work on Lion ( it definitely works in Snow Leopard ) . He says he 's working on it . His site is <URL> . Addendum 9-11-11 : The main awesomeness of Chax is the ability to auto-accept Screen Shares with certain people in your Buddy List ... including yourself . For instance , if you travel with a laptop and suddenly need to get files from your Mac back home , you simply get a second iChat/AIM account for that laptop , set up Chax on the home Mac , set it up to autoaccept the laptop 's account , and you can screen share automatically with your home Mac . I 've come to completely rely on that weekly for the past couple years .
When you say that you disabled the firewall , do you mean the one in : , or the IP Firewall that you can access from the command line ? Or perhaps both ? To check to see if you have rules , you can always go to the terminal and type in : You might also use to check if the port is open from different places on your internal network . Of course , OS X does n't comes with nmap by default , so you would have to try that from a Linux machine or use something like <URL> or <URL> to install it . I hope this helps .
There is no serial number ( like a Windows 7/8/10 product key ) tied to the OS X installation . If you did n't configure iCloud/iTunes accounts while setting up the system it 's almost plain vanilla . But installing OS X in Internet Recovery Mode will install the system the Mac originally was shipped with . Moving the disk with this system to a newer Mac - which usually relies on a newer OS X version - will probably fail to boot . Usually newer Mac contain newer or additional hardware . The older system usually does n't ship with the newer or additional drivers needed . Example : The iMac Late 2011 ( Mac12 ,1 ) was shipped with OS X 10.7.2 . The iMac Late 2013 ( Mac14 ,2 ) was shipped with OS X 10.8.4 . Attaching the external disk to the iMac Late 2011 and using IRM 's Restore OS X will install 10.7.x on it . The same disk attached to the iMac Late 2013 will probably fail to boot because the system is too old .
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
There is anti-virus software available for Mac OS X : <URL> <URL> ( Free ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> is free ) Is it worth it ? That 's largely up to you . Personally I 'd say unless required there 's no reason to so long as you practice " safe computing " ( eg . not opening files from just anywhere , being aware of what is installed on your computer , etc. ) . However there are some companies that require any computer ( regardless of OS ) to have up to date anti-virus software installed and operational . There are no viruses available for Mac OS X but there are several pieces of malware and trojan horses that a user must manually download and install . The anti-virus products ( and actually a feature in Mac OS X Snow Leopard ) will help fight against these threats but the primary defence is actually user education as the attack vector is primarily social engineering and not using any security hole .
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
I delete it from . Now , everything is going well . I do n't encountered any problem right now . Thanks for answers .
Would the Windows Latin American layout mentioned in this article meet your needs ? <URL>
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
IMO , if you have a UNIX background with previous experience with Emacs , it might make sense to " carry it forward " onto OS X . As a new text editor , I personally do n't think it makes sense . Yes , it is a fully capable text editor and it can do everything , but as you 've said , it does not integrate well into the OS , which for me is a major hurdle . I use vim on OS X because its my editor of choice on Linux ( where I do much of the work that earns me money ) , however with that said , I 've started learning and using BBEdit .
OS X Software for Editing XML <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( free/open source plugin ) for <URL> ( shareware ) <URL> ( commercial )
Mission Control handles window selection and visualization . Open that preference pane and look at the Application Windows keyboard shortcut . Control down arrow ( or in the trackpad preferences enable App Exposé - three finger swipe down ) to activate the picker . <URL> From there you can select a window or arrow key left right to the window you desire . command + [ or ] will switch to the next / previous window command + { or } will switch to the next / previous tab within a window Some applications - terminal is a notable one - define menu items to select the next window in turn . If they do , you can usually override the keyboard shortcut if you do n't like the ones they chose by default . Apple 's window manager is n't a perfect fit for the design idiom of windows , but in this case , it 's pretty close once you re-train your expectations to having all the windows one tap away .
Try something like and see what stops working . does n't make any permanent changes , so the plist is loaded again when you log out and back in . Some processes that might be disabled if you are trying to simplify the UI : : Also disables Mission Control , Launchpad , Dashboard , full screen windows , the application switcher , and the Notification Center sidebar , and makes desktop backgrounds gray . : Also removes the window of the desktop . Does n't affect Quick Look or file dialogs . and : Disables Spotlight indexing and makes the Spotlight menu , mdfind , mdls , and for example searching in Finder and Mail stop working . : Disables notifications and removes the Notification Center icon and sidebar . : Removes services from the Apple menu , context menus , and the keyboard preference pane . : Removes menu extras and the Spotlight menu but not status menus or the Notification Center icon . This concatenates the man pages of processes that have man pages :
All versions before OS X 10.6 " Snow Leopard " have the year 2038 problem . Most installs of 10.6 and all installs of 10.7 " Lion " fixed the main cause of the problem . It 's almost gone , but the year 2038 bug might survive in a few apps . OS X is derived from Unix by way of BSD . Apps for OS X use BSD system calls for things like opening files and connecting to the internet . BSD has a long history and some of its system calls come from the 1980s . One of its system calls is <URL> , which first appeared in 4.1 cBSD . UC Berkeley <URL> , more than half a century before 2038 . I have an old PowerPC Mac . It runs OS X 10.4 " Tiger " , the last version with Classic . It has . Its is a signed 32-bit integer . This causes the year 2038 problem . A signed 32-bit has a range of -2147483648 to 2147483647 . This can only hold times from 1901-12-13 20:45:52 UTC to 2038-01-19 03:14:07 UTC . When overflows , will inform programs that today is Friday the 13th of December 1901 , not Monday the 19th of January 2038 . The fix is to transition from 32-bit to 64-bit . For OS X , this transition happened along with another transition from 32-bit pointers to 64-bit pointers , but 64-bit pointers require a 64-bit processor . Apple has only provided 64-bit for 64-bit processors . It is possible for 32-bit processors to handle 64-bit , but Apple never provided that feature . Apple 's compilers have supported 64-bit integers on 32-bit processors since OS X 10.0 " Cheetah " . That version defined as 32 bits and as 64 bits . In Unix and BSD , is the size of a file , or an entire disk of files . A 32-bit would limit OS X to disks under 2 GiB . Apple defined as 64 bits , so OS X worked with larger disks . Apple defined as 32 bits in 10.0 , so a transition to 64-bit needed to happen later . For my old PowerPC Mac , the header file <URL> defines as . For Intel Mac , the header <URL> does the same . In OS X , has the same size as a pointer . So when pointers became 64 bits , also became 64 bits , and also became 64 bits , fixing the main cause of the year 2038 problem . Apple 's <URL> says , " Prior to OS X v10 .6 , all applications that shipped with the operating system were 32-bit applications . Beginning in v10 .6 , applications that ship with the operating system are generally 64-bit applications . " I know from <URL> that 10.6 required an Intel processor and 10.7 required a 64-bit Intel processor . A Mac running 10.6 on a 32-bit Intel processor must have had 32-bit apps . I conclude that most Macs running 10.6 and all Macs running 10.7 have 64-bit apps with 64-bit pointers and 64-bit . Apple released 10.7 in 2011 , well before January 2038 . With 64-bit , the year 2038 bug is almost gone , but it might survive in a few apps . Old 32-bit apps might still run on newer systems . Also , 64-bit apps might contain coding mistakes or outdated designs , causing them to convert a 64-bit to 32 bits . This is a problem for all systems , not only macOS . The kernel of OS X is a hybrid of BSD and Mach . The BSD part of the kernel handles files , internet and such , but the Mach part handles time . I guess that some apps can bypass BSD and get the time from Mach . This would avoid the year 2038 bug . Apple 's Carbon and Cocoa libraries probably get the time from Mach . I know much less about Mach than about BSD . ( This last paragraph is probably wrong , I need to correct it . )
I use the program <URL> when I want to know about specific machines throughout Apple 's History . With your model number you can identify all there is to know about that mac you have . It is available form the App Store for both Mac and iOS devices .
end question
start question
Can I pair an iPhone6 running 9.3.5 with an iMac using 10.9.5 ?
As stated in <URL> , many older Apple machines , and specifically the hardware specified in the question , have no Bluetooth 4 support . <URL> The information on that site provides links not only to iMacs , but most Apple machines .
If you want to avoid the firewall exceptions , there are options such as <URL> , which has an <URL> and a web client , and is free for the first ten devices you want to manage . The caveat is that you must install an app on the device which you want to access . The iOS app works smoothly over both WiFi and LTE , in my experience .
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
According to <URL> : For the quickest charge , connect the device to a power outlet using the USB cable that came with the device and an Apple USB power adapter . The USB spec limits the amount of current that a device may draw from a USB port ( 500 mA ) ; the included Apple standalone power adapter can supply double that ( 1 A ) . The difference is even more dramatic for devices that have higher current draw to recharge ( newer model iPads , for example ) . Generally speaking , charging from your computer wo n't affect the performance of your computer at all as long as you are n't syncing or otherwise interacting with the device . USB can supply power without requiring data transmission ( such is the case for wall adapters ) .
You can add the columns iCloud Status and iCloud Download and sort song lists by those criteria . All songs that did n't upload will include the missing tracks so you can clean them appropriately . You could also attack the inverse problem . Make sure everything you care about is in the iCloud and matched . Once that process is complete , you could turn off iTunes Match on that computer , quit iTunes and archive the entire music folder . Then you could delete the library folder and start with a fresh library and turn on match to restore all playlists , metadata , play counts , etc. . . At that point , you could decide to re-import some or all of the songs so you do n't need to download all the music again , but most with broadband are happy to just re-download what they need rather than have everything in one place . I have done this exact process , and when I go to iTunes and select a track I want to delete , the following dialog pops up : If you are not getting that dialog , then I can only presume some other corruption is present in your Library .
It a not possible to create a non-email address Apple ID any longer . As a matter of fact , they are becoming more and more inconvenient , as various Apple services begin to assume that your Apple ID is an email . If you have not started to notice it yet , trust me , you will , soon . I recently changed my non-email Apple ID to the linked email address . You can change the username of an Apple ID without starting a new account .
As long as you can find them with AirPort Utility you will be able to use them as AirPlay device . I 've used the same setup and you can wirelessly connect them and they will still function as AirPlay device ( they can even make your network more powerful ) Please also check <URL> and <URL> To make your answer complete : you can do this with both versions . If you have no internet connected , you will still be able to let the Express function as Accesspoint . You just wo n't have access to the internet via it , but that 's not weird as you do n't have an input ;)
Set the NVRAM variable to and restart to apply the changes . It restores the pre-10 .7 clamshell mode behavior where the internal display does not turn back on after you open the lid of a laptop . The laptop will also go to sleep when you close the lid even when an external display is connected . To undo the changes , run and restart .
You should be able to do this via Ethernet or wireless , depending on whether you want to buy a wireless dongle for your TV or whether you have the Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air . If you have the <URL> , you should be able to follow the instructions found <URL> : Set up the Sharing - The first step is to set up sharing on the host Mac . Head to Set up the client - make sure your TV uses DHCP General instructions from <URL> : To set up Internet sharing : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Either approach should work - it 's most likely a matter of the hardware that you have ( or are willing to acquire ) . Getting the USB Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air is likely to be cheaper ( and of more use long-term ) than a dongle for the TV .
Yes - <URL> supports gestures . So do <URL> and <URL> . As you correctly realised the answer is no for Safari , unless you count the four-finger swipe up to get to the current app list , and other system gestures .
Unfortunately no . I am running a setup with a 2016 MacBook Pro , the Thunderbolt 3 to Thunderbolt 2 adapter and a 2013 iMac 27 " .
The display port on the latest iMac 's ( actually since late 2009 ) acts as both an output ( for an external display ) or an input ( to make the imac screen a monitor ) . See <URL>
Yes . Yes . Yes . Only quirk is you wo n't get LTE data on networks other than Verizon , especially Airtel and Aircel , as Asian carriers use different bands . You are probably gon na get LTE in Europe , and that too most likely on CDMA networks , but you will have to check with the carrier . I really hate this fragmentation .
is a binary available in a set of tools <URL> . It can also be installed via Homebrew with . <URL> is a SH shell script that calls AppleScript to create an alias . I 'm including the shell script here for future reference incase it goes missing from the nets .
I have found a suitable work around that I have been testing for a couple of days . While using iCal on a Mac running Snow Leopard , I needed to add an account to iCal . This account would point to iCloud and sync with it . So , open Preferences and select accounts , enter the add account window by hitting + . this takes you to : You need to choose CalDav and enter your Apple ID email address ( not your . me.com email address ) enter in your password and the server name which in most cases is Once this has been added you will need to uncheck some of the calendars in the ' on my mac ' menu .
You can use the <URL> tool on the executable file inside the MyApp.app package . After downloading the . zip file , to compile the binary go to Terminal and enter ( or wherever you extracted the zip file ) , then enter . Next enter . Next find my MyApp.app in Finder . Then type , type a space , and then drag MyApp.app into the Terminal , and push enter . Then enter . Next enter . Now your app no longer has a signature . When users try to open it , they will get an " Unidentified Developer " message . Therefore tell them to right-click on it and select " Open " to be able to open it .
No . Apple actually disclaims that a brand new Mac will work reliably . Only that they will repair it , replace it , or refund your purchase if you seek warranty service under the conditions of the one year warranty : APPLE DISCLAIMS ALL STATUTORY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES , INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION , WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS Above from the US hardware warranty page at <URL> for a Mac Pro Furthermore , Apple has a long standing policy of cutting off the vast majority of repair service for Macs 5 years from the date when they remove it from sale . <URL> - Vintage and obsolete products There are some exceptions where you can get support between years 5 and 7 , but after 7 years , Apple and Apple Authorized Service Centers often flat out deny repair requests due to lack of support or part availability . I can not find any G5 or PPC machine that is n't officially designated by Apple as obsolete in 2015 . So - in summary , a new Mac Pro is n't sold with the expectation that it will even work for one year and the expectation that it might need repairs . Certainly second hand older machines wo n't be vouched for by Apple to have a working life of 10 years from now . That does n't mean some G5 will run for decades to come , just that the one you buy might or might not be the exception to things wearing out eventually .
You 'd have to have one app that does both the displaying and input , and I know of no apps like that . There is no provision for split-screening apps , even iPhone apps . The best you 'll be able to do is fast app switching .
The application <URL> ( $ 5 , Many Tricks ) tracks the amount of time you spend in each application ( and each window within an application ) .
Selecting " MS-DOS ( FAT ) " will automatically format as FAT16 or FAT32 depending on the target 's size .
end question
start question
Is there anywhere I can get a complete list of historical Safari release notes ?
Safari uses Webkit as it 's rendering engine . If you 're specifically looking for when it began to support HTML5/CSS3 , it as a fully open-source repository where you can review changes commit by commit . As such , you can see the full comprehensive , intricately detailed history here : <URL>
You could have a look at <URL> ( there 's a free and commercial version ) MAMP is installed in the typical Mac fashion : very easily . MAMP will not compromise any existing Apache installation already running with your OS X . You can install Apache , PHP and MySQL without starting a script or having to change any configuration files ! Philosophy : MAMP was created primarily as a PHP development environment for Macintosh computer and should therefore not be used as Live Webserver for the Internet . In this case , we recommend that you use Mac OS X server with the provided Apache or a Linux server . Included programs &amp; libraries Apache 2.0.63 MySQL 5.1.44 PHP 5.2.13 &amp; 5.3.2 APC 3.1.3 eAccelerator 0.9.6 XCache 1.2.2 &amp; 1.3.0 phpMyAdmin 3.2.5 Zend Optimizer 3.3.9 SQLiteManager 1.2.4 Freetype 2.3.9 t1lib 5.1.2 curl 7.20.0 jpeg 8 libpng-1 .2.42 gd 2.0.34 libxml 2.7.6 libxslt 1.1.26 gettext 0.17 libidn 1.15 iconv 1.13 mcrypt 2.6.8 YAZ 4.0.1 &amp; PHP/YAZ 1.0.14
Yes , iPhoto for iOS shows the date , time and if available address of the taken photo .
Like suggested <URL> , you can drag the search text from the URL bar into some plain text view . However , one can also directly drag it into a ( rich text ) email or chat message . Or into Google 's search field which is conveniently close to Safari 's location bar : ( In previous versions , you could <URL> ; in 2016 versions just drag the search text like shown above . ) After dragging into Google 's search field , the additional search text is already selected and focussed , ready for Command + C : ( In earlier versions , Safari 's location bar <URL> , and the URL in Google 's search input will be gray , not blue . In those versions one could first hit Tab after searching to go into Google 's search field , hit Delete to clear it , and then drag the icon . After that , the search field is ready for Command + C as well . ) The Share button to the right of the location bar can also share the URL , but probably only when messaging has been configured : As an aside : the Google URLs include a lot of irrelevant things , specific to your browser , language , etc. . Often , it 's enough to use <URL> , or for image search <URL> , but then one needs to change the spaces into plus-characters to ensure it 's clickable . ( And one also needs to <URL> other special characters . ) It would be nice if Google would provide some bare sharing link on its own site .
iOS does not provide a shortcut for skipping directly to the bottom of documents , but there is a reasonable alternative , if you 're not already aware of it : scrolling views in iOS respond to swipe frequency , scrolling more quickly the more quickly and frequently you swipe the screen . While swiping a long document , email , or webpage , try several long , quick swipes in rapid succession : you should notice the scrolling speed accelerate accordingly . This is n't nearly as elegant as a tap shortcut , but does let you quickly skip to the bottom of a long view .
Select the folder you want ( or command + A to select all ) and then press : Command + right arrow And the left arrow undoes what the right arrow did , should you want to close things back up again .
launchd and the Login Items pane of Accounts preferences are the two places that normally start a process when you log in . If you do n't see the item in System Preferences - > Accounts - > specific account - > Login Items then you will have to look into launchd . Basically the LaunchAgents and LaunchDaemons folders in ~ / Library Lastly , if they are not there , then it 's a system level launchd task that you might want to use launchctl to show or look in / Library instead of the user level library . Most people just have to manage the preference pane . Here is a snap of mine showing the Activity Monitor selected and ready to be deleted if I press the -- button .
Yes , Greasemonkey or " User scripts " were the ones that popularized this . For one option on Mac/Safari , please see <URL>
Apps which are in the foreground are granted access to the keyboard automatically . Apps which are run by your user account but are not in the foreground require accessibility access to access the keyboard . The list of applications granted access to this is available in System Preferences → Security &amp; Privacy → Accessibility . Here you can add and remove applications to grant and deny access , however some applications may lose functionality . Apps which run as root are not restricted in this way . You will have been required to authorise this before this is permitted . You can check the current list of running root processes in Activity Monitor . Keep in mind there 's no keyboard history maintained -- the apps must be recording it live .
You have to remove an article from the reading list to purge the contents . I suppose there is an implied storage limit since you would run out of space on a device once the cached pages exceed the local storage capacity and/or the capacity of iCloud to manage the content across devices . I have n't tested it , but iOS has the ability to mark some content as cloud backed / temporary and these articles might get culled if you reach a low storage watermark on iOS , but I 've never witnessed that happen even on devices where I 've run quite full .
Sadly it does n't work at this time . I tried looking for a matching SPR but I could n't find one . So I have created SPR SODY9GMBDH so that development can investigate further . Do not treat this as a final answer though ( as someone may have worked around it ) .
The second answer concerns Mac OS X ( as I have n't specified the system when asking the question ) . Here is the answer for Windows ( tested on Windows XP SP2 ) : Open cmd.exe by clicking Start menu -- > Run , then type and click . Type : Then you execute the following command ( to get the list of files in this directory without extensions ) : You 'll have the full list of apps ( ordered alphabetically ascending by default ) in the ' AppsList.txt ' file .
In Finder : Either : Option + click a folder . Or : Click the gear icon in the header . Or : Select the View menu , and then " Show View Options " . Or : Command + J Select " Show View Options " In the 4th subset of options select the box " Calculate all sizes " . If a folder is empty it will only show " -- " like all the folders previously did .
Somebody heard you , because this is now baked in . Your iCloud account will sync bookmarks , browser history , and even tabs in Yosemite and iOS 8 .
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
I contacted the <URL> developer and he has added this feature to his tables :
There may be other ways to do this , but a simple way would be to create your own homepage , which could look anyway you like . Then , just set the Homepage in Safari to point at that file . Make a file called " home.html " with these contents : Open that file with Safari , and use the preferences dialog to set the homepage to the current page . Also set new tabs and windows to start on your homepage .
The closest answer to my problem could be : which shows for example : Ignoring the date of the " SystemKey " - file .
There is no way to force Safari to do this , There are browsers on the app store which work around the mobile site to teh non mobile site . One such browser is <URL> ( $ 0.99 or free ) Hope that helps .
One option would be to use <URL> in a shell script : You could also use System Events to get the applications from the Open With menu : I did n't really test the scripts , but they 're probably affected by <URL> . Related questions at Super User : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
On the MacBook Pro , send file links via iMessage ?
In most cases you can drag a file into a terminal window to get the full path and that would be something you could paste into an iMessage window . If you want it to be a true link to the file , prepend the path with file : / / file : / / / Volumes/NAS/path / to/file
Best is to use Apple tools already on your Mac to check your battery . Open Activity in utility folder - and look under the the Energy tab . Next , open About this Mac - More - sys report : Look for battery information there . It should show something like : Fully charged capacity ( > 6500 mah ) , -- that is a good indicator how " old " is the battery , the older they get the lower is the Fully Charged capacity number . Look at the charge cycles ( < 5 ) - a good indicator how many times the battery was charged , with normal life been 1000 Cycles ( or 3-5 years )
Yes this is normal . Both the 15 " and the 17 " MacBook Pro have two graphic cards and use the Intel HD graphics for normal function and switch to the ATI Radeon when a more graphically demanding application is being run . Also when you connect the external display the ATI card kicks in in order to drive both of your screens . This is why you get the blue screen flash when you connect and disconnect an external monitor ( the graphics source is being switched )
You can not do this on iOS . Maybe a future iOS will let you select your default browser but iOS , as of version 5 , does not .
It is very low tech , but some tape is both cheap and effective at holding a cable securely when you start the tape around the cable and then have an inch or two of tape holding the cable securely along the bottom surface of the mac . Choose one with adhesive that cleans with alcohol and most cables and bottom cases are safe for cleaning any adhesive residue that may remain after your session . I have also seen people use velcro cable wraps with the hook portion affixed to the cable and a loop pad semi-permanently affixed to the bottom of their MacBook Pro . The loop is n't that disruptive in daily use and you only have the hook portion of the velcro on the cable so it can be tucked away when not in use . This is far superior to tape or rubber bands for a more heavy duty connection under repeated use cycles .
Enable " Remote Login " in the preferences of the target/remote mac . Then use with user being the short name of the remote user . You will be asked for the password of the user on remotehost . If you want to avoid using passwords , you can set up ssh key pairs . See <URL> for details .
Yes . That 's normal . As for " okay " -- it depends . The heat is coming from the extra graphic activity and CPU activity you 're asking your machine to perform when playing the games . The MBPro is vented at the back , along the hinge between the screen and the keyboard , you want to make sure that area is free of obstructions and the hot air can leave escape unimpeded . Long-term exposure to high operating temperatures can certainly be detrimental to the components in your machine . But for the most part , if your machine 's venting is unobstructed , it should be able to cool itself adequately .
You will need the same type of headset that you use with an iPhone . It will have one 3.5 mm plug that carries both the stereo audio and mic input ( aka a TRRS plug ) . Some examples are apple 's own <URL> , Sennheiser 's PX 200-II i 's , and any other iPhone headset .
The headphone jack had a red LED glowing inside , which clued me in that it thought there was an optical cable plugged in . Plugging and unplugging a pair of headphones resolved the problem .
I will answer my question myself . This is easy to have a try . You can send an receive iMessage when you are online . To send a message , you only need to set the receiving address an , or some phone numbers related to the ID . Of course , you network must be well enough to connect to .
Ctrl-T is standard hotkey for file selection -- <URL> . As for switch/add/substract , just type shift-8 for * , shift - = for + and - for minus . All this works in MC out of the box .
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
Not directly to iBooks , no . But you can email it to whatever email account you have set up on the iPad . Then , using the Open With button you can send it to iBooks or any compatible app on your iPad . I do this all the time with whitepapers I find on my work computer that I want to read on the train . Alternatively , I send my self a link to the file if it 's not behind a paywall or lead generation form .
The Macbook Pro 's Touchbar runs software similar to the Apple Watch 's WatchOS ( I 'll call it TouchbarOS ) , entirely separate from the macOS the computer itself runs on . TouchbarOS automatically switches to standard function keys when the physical keyboard 's function key is pressed . I can only assume TouchbarOS sends the exact same message when a function key is pressed on the Touchbar than when it is pressed on a physical keyboard , so yes , the standard function keys ( though almost definitely nothing else the Touchbar does ) should work with Ubuntu . For more on the Touchbar and standard function keys , see <URL> .
Despite what Weird Al would have you believe , it is no longer " All about the Pentiums " ( jury is out regarding whether the ' Benjamins ' are still a relevant unit of currency ) . The answer depends very heavily on the exact specs of each system , but I would expect you to notice better performance out of the laptops for a few reasons : The Core i series all support <URL> , which will make the dual core processors act like they have 4 cores . I forget which versions of the Core 2s have that available , but neither of my Core 2 duo laptops support it , so I 'll be spiteful and assume yours does n't either ( feel free to prove me wrong ) . The next question is how big your large spreadsheet is . The larger <URL> on the Core i will mean that spreadsheets approaching the 5-megabyte range will process appreciably quicker . To build on the theme of low-latency data access , I believe that all Core 2 CPUs use DDR2 memory , while the MacBooks will use DDR3 , so you 'll feel faster start up times and have an easier time using multiple applications or spreadsheets . The last piece to consider is the longer <URL> means that the Core i series can do much more with each " tick " of the processor . All in , you 'll likely feel an increase in speed and peppy-ness over your iMac with a newer MacBook ( though the MacBooks wo n't quite keep up with a new iMac ) . That all being said , I 'm just some random guy on the internet who copy/pasted some Wikipedia links . Go to an Apple Store and try one for yourself to see if it 's actually worth the money to upgrade ! Edit : For July of 2015 , the relevant processors ' <URL> scores are : 2009 27 " iMac ( <URL> ) with 1201 2015 13 " MacBook Pro ( <URL> ) with 4608 2015 12 " MacBook ( <URL> ) with 2484 To answer the original question , from a purely CPU-based perspective there is an appreciable increase in performance , though it may be worth noting the value-based scores passmark gives , where the MacBook with the 5257U trounces the other two options .
In most cases you can drag a file into a terminal window to get the full path and that would be something you could paste into an iMessage window . If you want it to be a true link to the file , prepend the path with file : / / file : / / / Volumes/NAS/path / to/file
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
No For the moment Apple has been extremely quiet about how to access the protocol , and there has been no confirmed plans for iMessage to for the Mac . However , they will most likely release a version for every Apple platform . I do n't think however , they will create a web interface , since no one else has really come up with one that works well .
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
end question
start question
Why does Time Machine back up way too much data and how can I slim this down ?
Yes , it is the whole virtual disk which gets saved , there is no binary diff .
I 've switched to running the services all the time instead of using foreman and I have n't really had any problems with battery life . I 've also installed <URL> which makes it easier to actually manage those services from the Settings.app . I 'm very comfortable in the command line however this just makes it super easy to start or stop the services . I 'm also toying with the idea of using <URL> to have start or stop some of the services depending on if I 'm at work or not .
You can navigate your backup drive in the Finder . Mount it , go to the Backup folder > [ name of machine ] > [ name of volume ] > latest > Users > [ user name ] and restore the files you want . ( You can also choose a date instead of latest to restore earlier versions of the files/files that have been deleted . )
Have you tried repairing the disk permissions via Disk Utility ? If that does n't work , try enabling the root account , logging in , and attempting to access the files . Use the " System Administrator " account to access the files : navigate to the folder " / System/Library/CoreServices / " and open " Directory Utility.app " Click the padlock in the " Edit " menu , choose " Enable root user " from the Apple menu , choose " Log out " log in as " System Administrator " ( or " root " ) and you will have access to the files in " / Users/Abby "
Yes - you can find large files in many ways . In the finder search field type size : > 9000 and add a size field if you wish in the list view to sort descending . Add zeroes to the number to get less results back for your file sizes . This does n't work well for network backups in my experience due to lag or incomplete spotlight databases . If that does n't work , get a tool made to analyze Time Machine backups like BackupLoupe . It is crafted specifically to efficiently scan time machine backup drives and network volumes . It creates a comprehensive backup database of all the files and revisions that would make your size query a snap . <URL> Install the app Let it index one or more intervals Use the app 's find window to sort on size after setting the search criteria as follows : Type is directory and match type of none of the following is true <URL> It also helps to reveal the files in Finder so you could decide to remove that file across backups or just to delete that interval entirely . <URL> <URL> Since Time Machine stores each backup in folders , you could unleash any other tool ( DaisyDisk , Grand Perspective , WhatSize or other ) on the backup , but they do n't know how to interpret hard links and may take days or months to make a picture that does n't represent the actual storage allocations . BackupLoupe is smarter than the existing tools and does n't double count hard linked files . It also runs in the background if you wish . Lastly , it reads a database file summarizing the backups so the results are near instantaneous and you do n't even need the backup drive mounted to do the reporting .
To obtain a semi precise GPS position , you need at least three satellites ( but usually four or more is required to obtain a decent degree of precision ) to triangulate your position . The more you have the better the accuracy . A GPS receiver needs to power its antenna , and constantly process the signal sent by each satellite . Remember that satellites are continually transmitting messages . ( 50 bits/sec as far as I can remember ) Satellites emit messages specifying their exact location , trajectory , speed , the time each message was sent and the rough location of all the other satellites in the constellation . By comparing this info to the time the signal was received a distance from the satellite to the receiver can be determined . When you have three or more satellites you can triangulate your location in three dimensions relative to the positions of the satellites . The iPhone ( and other phones ) use A-GPS , which is designed to ( believe it or not ) among other things , make the GPS work better in poor reception areas ( cities ? ) and reduce the amount of information that the receiver needs from the satellites , thus saving battery power from the Antenna . The parts of the GPS signal about location , speed and orbital trajectory usually drop out first when in low reception , that 's where A-GPS fits in , feeding that info for every satellite in that part of the world to the phone , from a central database via the mobile network . Now the phone just has to search for the short timing signals from each satellite , which are easier to receive than the other parts of the transmission . When all that information is calculated , an algorithm ( there are a few as far as I know ) is used to compute the position of the actual receiver . Now add to that the fact that GPS messages are encoded and that satellites broadcast the messages at about 50 bits per second . And that each message is really a subset of frames with time , position , error correction , etc , etc. . There are more factors involver , but for the purpose of making this simple , the GPS 's cpu must constantly use the radio ( already power hungry ) to capture the signal ( which may be weak ! ) for usually four or more ( sometimes up to 20 ! ) satellites that are constantly sending packages , then it must decode and process them , perform calculations to analyze the results and in some cases draw a map or feed an application with the info . As you can see , this sounds easy but it 's not . There 's a lot of CPU processing involved in the back ( plus the antenna 's power ! ) So the GPS power consumption usually comes from the real time nature of the operation . Powering the antenna , listening for information and processing it , uses power , more than just a standby radio antenna ( the phone ) waiting for a call . Plus the A-GPS uses also the phone 's radio and ( if available ) Wi-Fi networks to determine its location ( and use less GPS info ) , which means , more power is used at the same time . The <URL> page has a lot of detailed information if you want to get the specifics and/or dive into more GPS geekery , including the math and error correction stuff .
Yes , videos and photos are stored in messages and they take up too much space . Try deleting any large discussion thread you do not need if you would like to free some space . Or , if you would like to weed out individual photos or videos , you can tap and hold on any message bubble for the context menu . It will appear with two options : " Copy " | " More " . Tap " More " for a list of checkboxes to appear on the left side of the screen . This allows you to easily delete one or more ( large ) individual messages . Up to iOS 6 messages just were n't in the usage tab , and consequently one could n't easily see how much space it consumed . Also note , that you are just deleting those messages off of that device . If they are iMessages , and you have other devices ( a Mac or OSX device ) with those accounts synced there , the messages will stay there .
You ca n't use Time Machine to back up Windows , if that 's what you mean . The only way you could do that is if you 're hosting the Win installation in a virtual machine like Parallels ( Paid ) or VirtualBox ( free ) , then of course your entire VM would be backed up to TM along with everything else on your mac . Still , rolling back to a particular state ( or recoveing a particular file ) that way would be like finding a needle in a haystack . I 'd suggest you 'd be better off keeping a clone of your windows installation and a separate clone/or TM backup of your OS X installation ( on a separate disk ) . Not only is this the only practical solution , more importantly its also the safest . Never keep all your eggs in one basket ( hard drive ) when it comes to backups , especially with Time Machine , which has a habit of getting itself corrupted just when you least want it .
You can see the start time of the individual processes in Terminal ( ) . This may give you an indication about relative start time and any delays occuring .
The <URL> article pegs it at 600MB difference on the iPhone 5 . DEVICE SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 7.1.2 ) SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 8.0 GM ) 32GB iPhone 4S ( AT&T ) 27.4 GB 26.6 GB 32GB iPhone 5 ( VZW ) 27.3 GB 26.7 GB 32GB iPhone 5C ( AT&T ) 27.2 GB 26.5 GB 64GB iPhone 5S ( AT&T ) 56.0 GB 55.1 GB
Yes , it 's straightforward to do it , even though it would take quite sometime to complete depending on the size of your current backups . Follow the detailed procedure at <URL> . Here 's a summary of what 's required and the steps . The backups go into a sparsebundle on a . So you need to create that sparsebundle on the , mount it in and then copy over everything from your USB drive into the mounted volume . Here are the basic steps with some additional information : Configure to back up to the and start a backup . This will make it create the sparsebundle . Cancel the backup once the copying starts ( as seen in the progress window ) . Mount the sparsebundle in by double-clicking it ( or using Cmd + Down Arrow ) Delete the folder inside this volume ( you 'll be replacing it with the backup you already have ) . Open your current backup USB drive in and copy the folder from it to the partition ( mounted from the ) . Enter your administrator password and accept the prompts ( this may happen a couple of times ) .
No - you do n't need to get a new drive , but it 's always nice to consider getting a new drive for reliability reasons . At some point , retire the old drive to the shelf or delete it and repurpose it . The backup should ideally be more reliable than the source in terms of longevity . Even an unreliable drive can be useful though since it will protect you from user errors and is unlikely to fail at the same time as the primary source if you are primarily concerned about having two copies of the current data . One Time Machine drive can serve to hold files from many computers . Similarly , one computer can back up to multiple Time Machine drives . In the case where you migrate data from one Mac to another , the system will usually detect this and offer to " migrate " the one time series of backups so that you get two benefits : You do n't lose the space savings where each file is only saved when it changes - saving space when a dozen backup intervals contain the same file version . You do n't lose history and have to wait for all the files to back up .
Time machine does n't care what else is on the destination drive as long as the volume ( partition ) you choose meets the minimum requirements . If the volume you select is n't formatted properly , Time Machine will offer to erase and reformat the part of the drive that will contain your backups . You might want to try resizing partitions using whatever tool you want before you start accumulating a lot of Time Machine data in case you want to be able to adjust the size of the partitions down the road , but that 's more of a problem with partitioning and not something that Time Machine causes .
According to <URL> you only need 7G of free space . Amazingly small amount of space considering the download is 3.6 G itself . Many are reporting gaining back between 5 and 10 GB of space as Lion is more compact than Snow Leopard .
iPhones/iPod Touches/iPads all have a Unified Memory Architecture which mean that both the CPU and GPU share system memory . There is no dedicated video memory on these devices . The advantage is that you do n't need to worry about running out of video memory for your textures or vertex data ( your app will be terminated by iOS for using too much memory before that happens ) . The disadvantage is that you share the same memory bandwidth for gameplay and graphics . The more memory bandwidth you dedicate to graphics , the less you will have for gameplay and physics
The short answer is Yes . If the Time Machine drive is accessible to Windows ( via MacDrive or anything else ) , then it can be corrupted and directly destroyed . For this reason , I recommend turning off your Time Machine drive while in Windows . Another possibility is that modifications to your primary drive could cause its ID to change , which would break its association with its existing Time Machine backups . The old Time Machine backups would still be there on the backup drive , but they would be treated as being backups of a different system . It sounds like this is probably what happened . It could be because you ( or something ) renamed the primary drive or otherwise tried to change it at the root level . But since you saw a MacDrive error , its more likely a glitch in MacDrive . There 's not much you can do to prevent that except not use it . Try running a Disk Utility check on all drives , preferably while booted from a DVD or an external drive . That will at least make sure nothing worse happened .
On the root of each indexed volume , a hidden folder called . Spotlight-V100 . Also : spotlight metadata is probably not large enough to be worthwhile in excluding , at least if you are doing this for space reasons . Spotlight is also essential for TM to work properly , as this is how TM determines which files have changed since the last backup .
I had this a long time ago , so I am not 100 % sure that I remember the solution correctly , but I think it was rather simple : Rename the existing backup image or tuck it away in a folder .
The original Apple charger has an output limited to 2.1 A at 5.1 V. I occasionally charge my iPad 2 Wifi with the old charger of my passed Palm Pre . It provides an amperage of 1 A at standard 5 V USB voltage . I do n't know if you can go even lower than 1 A , but the standard USB amperage of .5 A is not enough to charge it . It should n't be a problem to get a car charger that is capable of handling 1 A , more is better . Make sure you buy one , that is capable of charging an iPhone as Apple devices tend to observe the USB standards and try to communicate with the charger . Some dumb China elcheapo chargers may not have USB logic inside and your iDevices could refuse to charge .
I 've just tried with an iPad ( 3rd gen ) running 5.1 , there does n't seem to be a difference when I tilted left or right . At least , not a 20 ° difference . But there could be . Since starting from iPad 2 there 's the Smart Cover , people are more likely to tilt the iPad to the right , to have it in " typing mode " so Apple could have lowered the angle necessary to rotate the screen .
end question
start question
Is there a picture in picture using spaces under OS X ?
If you want to see the contents of one space in another space , there is no such feature in Lion , and I 'm not aware of any applications that may enable it . All in all , such " feature " , if it existed , would have given me a bizarre feeling , akin to remoting into my own computer . Why would I ever want to do that ? It would be impossible to control another space with a mouse ( scaling issues ) so watching a film would be a pain . You want to code and watch a movie at the same time ? ( Sure it 's a good idea ? ) Great , that 's precisely what windows are for . ( <URL> running with <URL> on top of it . ) Some media players ( amongst them is MPlayerX , the most polished OS X player ) always stay on top when playing so you wo n't have issues with window disappearing as soon as you switch the focus . Finally , if you want a window to stay visible regardless of chosen space , right-click its Dock icon and assign it to All Desktops as advised by <URL> in the comment to your question .
<URL> supports offline reading of your RSS feed . It will fetch and cache a configurable amount of feed history for you to peruse while you are n't connected to the web . And it 'll look darn good while doing it . ( Can you tell I 'm a fan ? )
Nope , there 's no such setting in OS X . This has lead to the creation of a number of sleep-prevention apps : <URL> Simple app but lets you set options for each : <URL> A preference pane for enabling/disabling sleep-prevention .
I reinstalled the OS and the problem went away . I 'll mark this answer as correct until someone comes with a better one .
So far as I know there is n't a nice automated way to provide the benefits of System Restore as it is implemented on Windows . For all its utility for Windows users , though , System Restore ca n't be used to backup/restore individual files &amp; whatnot at the whim of the user - that requires a separate backup system . Time Machine on OS X , on the other hand , can provide for the backup/restore of deleted documents , folders , etc , and can be used to restore an entire hard drive in the event of a crashed or munged drive . I 've used this function a few times , twice on a very important server , and once on my own machine , with great success . My Mom 's new Lion iMac is setup with an inexpensive external 500 GB USB hard drive and Time Machine is running like clockwork . My Mom knows to check the Time Machine menu every day to make sure it is backing up . She 's even started to recover files on her own now , without needing to call Tech Support ( me ) . Time Machine was also very helpful in migrating her creaky Leopard Mac mini to the new iMac a few months ago . Instead of hooking the old &amp; new Macs together via Ethernet cable , I simply ran a Time Machine backup on the old machine , shut it down , connected the USB drive to the new iMac , and the Migration Assistant app took care of the rest . Her new iMac was up and running in a little more than an hour . A non-Time Machine solution would be using Carbon Copy Cloner or SuperDuper ! to back up the Mac to an external hard drive on a regular basis . This would allow for a mass restore of the drive 's contents . Another non-Time Machine solution would be to boot from the System Install DVD ( pre-Lion ) or an bootable external HD ( Lion &amp; after ) and create a restorable disk image . After converting the image to ASR format , Disk Utility can be used to restore the disk image .
I found this article , <URL> , and possible solutions : It has always been a challenge for IT administrators to find solutions and tools compatible with Mac OS X , but now securing the network and data Mac users access is also becoming a priority . <URL> ' Endpoint Protector 4 with Enforced Encryption on removable storage devices for Mac OS X solves these problems . It offers an easy , yet secure way for Mac users to encrypt data copied onto USB storage devices . With intuitive ' drag &amp; drop ' and copy/paste features , all information copied on the device is instantly protected by password-based military strength AES 256-bit encryption . The Enforced Encryption functionality also incorporates an additional security feature that deletes information if an attempt is made to tamper with the data , or when the device gets lost or stolen . Therefore , stopping users from taking classified information from Macs minis , iMacs , Mac Pros , MacBooks onto portable devices has become an imperative for the companies ' data security . Locking down and monitoring proactively the use of USB , CD/DVD , card readers , etc. is possible with Device Control by Endpoint Protector for Mac OS X and can be managed centrally from the intuitive web-based interface .
Go to System Preferences > Trackpad > Point &amp; Click and enable the " Look up " checkbox . You will then be able to do a with a three finger tap on the trackpad . See : <URL>
Depending on what you are trying to do with the link , it may be sufficient to drag it . If you click and drag a link in Safari , you can drop it in many places and get the desired functionality . For example , if you drop it in a text editor , it will drop the link URL ( for plain text ) or a formatted link using the title from the page . If you drop it on your desktop , you will get a webloc file . If you drop it on the Safari URL bar or tab , that tab will load the link . If you really need to copy the link , one possibility is to use spotlight as a easy-access text field . Start dragging the link , hit Command + space ( or whatever you have it set to ) to pop up spotlight , drop it in the search field , and copy .
The best way to do this is to create a chroot jail for the user . I 'll clean up the answer here when I get home but I posted the solution on my blog . <URL> Below are most of the instruction from the above post . First , you should create the new user in Workgroup Admin and either assign them access privileges for SSH via Server Admin or assign them to a group that has SSH access privileges . Further discussion is below . From the Terminal , start off right . Every additional new user added will then be something along the lines of the following . Every folder it the path to the chroot jail must be owned by . I do n't think it matters what group the folder is in . What I did above was to backup change ownership of the root directory to change permissions of the root directory to 755 create a chroot folder create a user folder inside the chroot folder create a folder inside the user folder that user can modify set ownership and permissions Now to edit to the following . This creates a chroot jail that when the user logs in will drop them into the folder , in that folder is a folder they can add things to . If you want to create a Group in Workgroup Admin for ' Chroot Users ' then add the new users that you created in Workgroup Admin to the Group you wo n't have to keep editing the file . Instead of the above , add the following . Make sure you add the ' Chroot Users ' group to the SSH access ACL in Server Admin . To test whether the above is working , issue the following from the terminal .
The default domain name for new Apple ID 's ( or iCloud accounts ) is . You can also use .
As far as I know , it 's not possible . The reason is that Power Nap does n't have an API that 3rd party apps can hook into ( so apps could trigger a wake event or be notified when one occurs ) . Whether this will remain like that in the future depends upon Apple . It would be interesting to see if there 's a simple way to detect when one is in power nap mode , but does n't seem to be available afaik . If you leave a script that pulls from git every minute , in theory , since Power Nap is really a power on without graphics and audio state , maybe it would get executed ( if it was running before ) . untested . More info : <URL>
If you want to see the contents of one space in another space , there is no such feature in Lion , and I 'm not aware of any applications that may enable it . All in all , such " feature " , if it existed , would have given me a bizarre feeling , akin to remoting into my own computer . Why would I ever want to do that ? It would be impossible to control another space with a mouse ( scaling issues ) so watching a film would be a pain . You want to code and watch a movie at the same time ? ( Sure it 's a good idea ? ) Great , that 's precisely what windows are for . ( <URL> running with <URL> on top of it . ) Some media players ( amongst them is MPlayerX , the most polished OS X player ) always stay on top when playing so you wo n't have issues with window disappearing as soon as you switch the focus . Finally , if you want a window to stay visible regardless of chosen space , right-click its Dock icon and assign it to All Desktops as advised by <URL> in the comment to your question .
As far as the license says , no . You have the right to : So , as far as the license goes , you must already be running Mountain Lion in order to virtualize it .
According to a <URL> , FileVault 2 is not FIPS 140-2 validated , but " Apple 's new Common Crypto implementation is just starting to undergo FIPS evaluation " The code itself for Common Crypto is available at <URL> and has been all the way back to 10.4 ( where I got tired of checking revisions - it probably goes back even further , but what matters is the code shipped in Lion which is available for all three lion releases 10.7 , 10.7.1 and 10.7.2 )
You can use the command to pad any JPEG or BMP image to a specified size , with a specified colour . In your case , the command would look something like : obviously with the input and output filenames of your choice . For white instead of black borders , change 000000 to FFFFFF .
You will have to jailbreak your iPhone to password-protect the Mail app . Sorry , there 's no other way . :-) I ran across <URL> , which has three apps for password protecting iOS apps . Lockdown Pro FolderLock Locktopus All are paid apps . <URL> mentions an app called iAppLocker . It is free . Hope this helps you !
I have been thinking the same since I learned about Nvelo Dataplex and recently I stumbled upon <URL> It looks like they are working on versions for Mac , Linux and Windows .
If you have ' Use all F1 , F2 keys as standard functions ' unchecked , that 's the behaviour . With or without the Cmd key , F10 mutes . Incidentally , so does Ctrl/F10 or Shift/F10 . <URL>
No . There is no other single-click option besides saving ( edited ) pictures to the history . You can however create an Alias of the Skitch folder where the history is saved and drag it to a custom location . & #x 2192 ;
Short answer : Your selfie stick is pretending to be a set of iPhone headphones and pressing the button on your stick is actually the same as pressing the volume up or down button which captures a photo . You can do the same with normal iPhone headphones , or by pressing the physical button on your iPhone . Detailed answer : Note : + ( ve ) and - ( ve ) refers to positive and negative respectively . Depending on the <URL> , most modern iPhones since the iPhone 3GS have the ability to control the the volume of audio playback through the remote built in-line in compatible headphones . The <URL> on a typical music device would be either TS ( mono ) or TRS ( stereo ) , meaning that it has a Tip section , Ring section and a Sleeve section . Headphones are essentially speakers , and like most electrical devices they work on the idea of a circuit , from + ( ve ) to - ( ve ) , so a stereo set of headphones is basically two speakers . One for each the left and right channels , so you need two wires , one for each , and a third that connects both back to the - ( ve ) side of the circuit . Thats why a stereo headphone jack is TRS ( Tip , Ring , Sleeve ) . The tip section of a headphone jack is always the left channel ( or mono ) , the 1st ring section is the right channel , and the sleeve section is the - ( ve ) connection , this sleeve being - ( ve ) is important for later ... Even since the original iPhone there has always been a remote control inline with the right ear bud , and a microphone also . This allowed you to pickup calls hands-free and also play/pause , skip and rewind tracks by clicking the button . To implement these extra features required a special type of headphone jack , a TRRS ( Tip , Ring , Ring Sleeve ) jack , it 's no bigger than a normal jack and whats really clever is that the additional ring is in the section where the sleeve would be on a normal headphone . The reason this is clever is that when you use your TRRS type headphones on a device which is a normal music player , the microphone bit just gets connected to - ( ve ) and is thus essentially disabled but the left and right channels are connected as normal so your smart iPhone headphones become normal headphones without any chance of the microphone or buttons becoming a problem . Anyway , back to the original question , <URL> that send the volume up/down and play/pause buttons and microphone through this channel . Since iOS 6 , you have been able to use the volume up ( and later down ) button ( s ) on your iPhone , or headphones to capture a photo . This was in response to a number of third-party photo apps that popped up adding this feature with ever increasingly clever ways of hiding this from Apple 's App Store reviewers . So essentially the selfie stick is pretending to be a pair of Apple Headphones and pressing the volume up or down buttons . You can probably verify this by going into the Music app and pressing the capture button .
end question
start question
How do I remove the iCloud-first behavior in Mountain Lion ?
To change the default to local just write in a terminal : To change back to iCloud first , type :
Instructions from official CocoaSuite support To deactivate , delete this folder : Other files and folders installed that can be deleted ( ~ stands for your home directory ) :
Checkout XTrafinder - google for it and download it from the source of your choice ... It can be found <URL> . From the website : XtraFinder add Tabs and features to Mac Finder . • Tabs . • Dual Panel &amp; Dual Window . • Arrange folders on top . • Cut &amp; Paste . • Global hotkeys . • " Copy Path " , " Show Hidden Items " , " Hide Desktop " , " Refresh " , " New File " , " Copy to " , " Move to " , " New Terminal Here " , " Make Symbolic Link " , " Contents " , " Select ... " , ... . • Light text on dark background . • Colorful icons in Sidebar . The nice thing really is that it extends finders usability .
I am still looking for a solid answer . In the meantime , I have the following script running in AppleScript Editor . This script looks for the every 15 seconds and kills the process . This renders calendar syncing unusable , but at least I can use my Mac again . I will let this run until I find a permanent solution . The script is :
That apple ID applies only to the user account that is created during the setup process . If you look in System Preferences , you 'll notice the following option called " Apple ID " , under a test account I created : Additionally , when logging into the new test account , I was presented with the iCloud login screen which you saw during initial setup of the OS install on your Mac . If you restored your iMac from a backup , or installed Mountain Lion over Lion , you will already have access to those accounts without seeing the iCloud setup screen . In that case , open System Preferences , click on Users &amp; Groups , and set up your iCloud account as you wish . So , one iCloud account per local account . This would appear to be the case on Lion as well .
Back up your data . Boot into the Recovery System by holding ⌘ + R during early boot . Select Disk Utility and format your drive where OS X and your files were stored on . Quit Disk Utility and select " Install Mountain Lion " .
With the caveat that this is just one example of a notes widget , I 've used Junecloud 's <URL> app a bit , and it seems to fit your requirements of a widget that connects to iCloud . I can sync to iCloud or the app provider 's JuneCloud sync . However , Notefile is not a free app ( currently $ 4.99 ) , so you 'll need to look elsewhere if you want a freeware solution . Junecloud also provides an <URL> for mobile devices ( iPad/iPhone/iPod Touch ) for $ 2.99 at the time of this answer .
Yes it is . I use it for my firewall needs . A great way to test if it still exists , is to just run it . Open Terminal.app and enter the following command : It should report the following ( rules may vary ) : Additionally , Apple will not remove it as it is actually the backend for the default Application Firewall found in System Preferences , at least not for some time . You can read up more on ipfw in OS X using <URL> ( or simply type in Terminal.app ) . As for pf ( the actual implementation of OS X is ) , it is a much more object orientated program that can control network access translation and packet filter ( while requires external components to handle them ) . It is born from OpenBSD ( as opposed to FreeBSD ) and has been around for quite a while as well . It 's power comes from being able to accomplish more internally , but also optimize long rulesets ( that sometimes bogs down ) . They are both , however , excellent firewalls and can coexist quite happily . <URL> .
According to this detailed <URL> post the trick is to use Lion 10.7.2 and Safari 5.1.1 to force a flush of the Data . Simplified steps : Turn off bookmark sync on all devices except the Mac Backup current bookmarks on Mac Correct bookmarks on Safari on the Mac Move the new bookmarks out of you Safari Library folder Delete all bookmarks and wait for iCloud to update . Move the new bookmarks folder back and wait for iCloud to update Delete all bookmarks on iOS devices and re-enable sync . It 's laborious , but I am fairly certain Apple will release better tools for this process . Considering there normal rollout , they are probably handling these issues in phases . They introduced Photo Stream reset mid way in the Beta , so I am sure they will bring the rest through over time .
No , you ca n't use Google Sync through Mail.app in Mountain Lion . Google 's exchange server m.google.com is not a fully implemented exchange server . It just implements the ActiveSync protocol which seems to be a subset of the exchange protocol for mobile devices . See also this information on Google Sync : <URL>
Yes , the App store downloads an installer for Mountain Lion and stores it in the usual spot - / Applications . You should only need a network connection after installing to get updates , etc. . and not to run the installer outright . Be aware that the installation process deletes the installer once you are done installing the OS , so you might make a backup copy of the Install OS X Mountain Lion program before you run it .
I was having the same issue and here 's what just worked for me : Hold command , then drag it off the Favorites bar . The item will turn into a little " poof " white cloud and when you release , it 'll go away ! Finally !
1 ) That entirely depends on what you want to do . There are a bunch of app recommendation discussions here based around games , productivity , etc. . Rather than rehash them , I 'd suggest searching those out . 2 ) Plug it into a USB port on your computer . The phone also comes with a wall adapter for the USB cable so you can charge it from a wall socket . 3 ) Do n't stick it in the oven or the freezer and you should be fine .
Yes the installer is updated with 10.8.x releases as they come out . You will need to update the installer app through the App Store as you would for any other app . ( Source : <URL> ) . Like any other application purchased from the Mac App Store , these OS installers are updated in-place as part of the normal Mac App Store update process when new versions are released . It 's as if your Mac OS X 10.6.0 installation disc gradually morphed into a 10.6.1 installer , then a 10.6.2 installer , and so on . Example given is 10.6 , but the reviewer is talking about 10.8 .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
See screenshot . Change the radio button for to . To access this screen , go to .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
No , you can install Lion directly if you want . This will save you a lot of time , as you would otherwise have to upgrade from Leopard to Snow Leopard first , only to upgrade to Lion afterwards . Buy a bootable OS X Lion USB stick You can buy a bootable OS X Lion USB Thumb Drive from the Apple Store : <URL> Create a bootable OS X Lion USB stick or DVD based on the Mac App Store download Buy and download Lion from the Mac App Store . The installer should show up in your folder . Right-click on the installer and hit " Show Package Contents " . Navigate to and look for a file called . Open up Disk Utility and drag the DMG file into the left-hand sidebar . If you 're burning it to a DVD , insert your DVD , select the disk image in the sidebar , and hit the " Burn " button . Skip down to the last step to use it . If you want to burn Lion to a USB flash drive , plug it in and click on it in the left-hand sidebar in Disk Utility . Go to the Partition tab and select " 1 Partition " from the dropdown menu . Choose " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " on the left . Hit the " Options " button under the partition table and choose " GUID Partition Table " . You 'll need this to make the drive bootable on a Mac . Hit the " Apply " button when you 're done to format your drive ( note : it will erase everything on the drive ) . Click on the " Restore " tab , choose the file as the source and your flash drive as the destination . Hit the " Apply " button and it will create your bootable USB drive . Reboot into OS X and hold the option key when you hear the startup chime . You can boot into your DVD or flash drive from there .
This is actually still possible ; however , a safe-guard to protect novice users has been added . There is now a minimum distance that you need to move the icon away from the Dock for it to be removed . Once that distance is reached , the cursor will show a wrinkled paper icon . Simply release the mouse then , and the icon will be removed from the dock normally . Alternatively , one can still use the context menu of the icon ( right-click or long-left-click the icon to make it appear ) and go to Options > Remove from Dock .
As it turned out , I defined the Reminders list in the Automator service myself , so I could change it there . Stupid me !
end question
start question
What actually happens during " Waiting for changes to be applied " and " Waiting for items to copy " ?
Although there is no official documentation by Apple , you can still get some information by watching iTunes and iOS doing their stuff . This can be done by monitoring log files of both , on the iPhone this can be done over an USB connection . Here 's a couple of what I 've already seen the iPhone doing in the " waiting for xy " sync stages : After copying new media to the iPhone , the media needs to be indexed , e.g. there 's metadata to be processed , thumbnails need to be created etc. . Until that is done , the media ca n't be displayed correctly in the corresponding iPhone apps , so iTunes waits for the iPhone Media Indexer service to complete it 's work . When copying new apps to an iPhone , the packaged - files need to unpack and install , e.g. register in the iPhone 's homescreen , app lists , file extension databases etc , this is done during that stages of sync . The spotlight search might need time to index new files , iTunes waits for this as well ( not always , but sometimes ! ) When iTunes transfers files to an iPhone , it always verifies the file 's contents in several ways , being it archive integrity or hashes that are compared . These processes do need plenty of time , depending on the size of the transferred data , and iTunes waits for successful verification in order to complete the sync . When there are copy failures detected by any of the verification methods , iTunes will copy the files again . Often these processes are not displayed by iTunes , it is done during the " Waiting for items to copy " - processing . iTunes will also wait for copy processes to terminate successfully , there are streams and sockets to close when data is transferred between computers . Although this should happen instantly , sometimes there are failures and the iPhone needs some time . In general , you can say that iTunes utilizes these stages for verification and error correction as well as doing " completional " work . They get extremely useful especially when using WiFi sync , which is much more error-prone than USB . Edit : To view the log files of an iPhone/iPad , no jailbreak is required . The best tool probably is <URL> , a bundle of free open-source software licensed under <URL> . It is capable of handling an iOS device without the need of iTunes , so even on linux machines . Although being desinged for linux machines , it can be run on Mac as well , e.g. by compiling the <URL> , or , even easier , by installing through <URL> . Although I 'm always using it on linux machines , this should work the same way on Mac OS X . You probably need to pair your iPhone first , use the - binary for this . It should find your USB-connected iPhone on it 's own , if it does n't , you can try passing the UUID of your device . After paring succeeded ( it will display a success-message to your terminal interface ) , use the - application to view the log files of your iPhone . It will connect to the - socket of your device automatically , if it does n't , you may pass the UUID again . Then all log messages will get posted to on your computer , e.g. to your terminal output . There is proprietary software as well that allows you to read the logs on your iOS device , but as a command line - and open source-tool should be preferred .
The DEP program as well as iOS security design out of the box will likely foil your attempts to enroll a device using networks where you need to install custom CA/certificates . iOS does not automate silent installation of trust certificates without being enrolled in MDM or supervised . You would be preventing this initial enrollment unless you have what amounts to an illegal cert that makes your MITM servers look like Apple owned and operated . I say illegal in the sense that comodo , symantec and others are in hot water from Apple , Google and other OS vendors for issuing certificates to entities that are not what the certificate says . Once you have the devices entered into your MDM , you can then push wifi profiles and your CA certs and then join the networks where you are " inspecting " SSL/TLS and other encrypted traffic between iOS and Apple or at least attempt to decrypt/re-encrypy/inspect that traffic . DEP runs at a point in the OS setup that users ca n't even accept a custom certificate - this runs before the home screen is initially presented to users as part of the setup script / out of box experience . This is documented at <URL> and <URL> and I would reach out to your Apple contact that established your " sold to " account for assistance in this . <URL> I would n't want to surprise Apple with what you 're doing and risk them shutting down your DEP . Also they have engineers that can guide you if other large customers have the same " inspection " needs that you do and there are either undocumented ways to get around the design or otherwise clear only the initial traffic to Apple and then inspect things once the devices are enrolled . You will have detailed legal agreements with Apple when you sign up for DEP , so you 'll want to read through them as well since Apple vets organizations quite thoroughly , you can probably get excellent help directly from Apple if you 've already jumped through all the hoops to be qualified for DEP in the first place .
I went through the same process with a 3GS and an iPhone 4 when I moved to China last year . With two phones at stake , I many spent hours searching and tried calling and visiting stores , but no luck . Unless something changed in the last year , it 's not possible . The good news is that you can unlock it yourself .
I 've migrated between many macs over the years , and I 've always found that the best way to do it , is manually . Normally I use a firewire cable ( but you can also use WiFi , USB , external hard drive , dvd/cd , etc ) to hook up the two computers , then just drag over files from one computer to the other . Mostly everything the average user has on their mac will be found in their user folder ( home folder ) . You can just drag/copy this entire folder over , or you can be more selective about which folders in your home folder you move ( for instance , you may not want the folder ) . Then , anything outside of your home folder ( Applications , for one ) you can drag/copy over if you want .
Your probably best of if you crop the photos yourself . Here are the pixel counts that work best for each screen size : iOS devices : display sizes 320 × 480 pixels : iPhone ( 1st generation ) , iPhone 3G , iPhone 3GS , iPod touch ( 1st -- 3rd generation ) 640 × 960 pixels : iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod touch ( 4th generation ) 640 × 1136 pixels : iPhone 5/5s/5c , iPod touch ( 5th generation ) Retina display 1024 × 768 pixels : iPad , iPad 2 , iPad mini ( non-retina ) 2048 × 1536 pixels : iPad Air , retina iPad mini and iPad ( 3rd -- 4th generation ) , all of which have Retina display Automate resizing using Automator Automator let 's you easily crop images . See my screenshot below for explanation and just click the actions together . You can automate resizing the photos with Automator , if you do n't demand to choose an extract of your photo . <URL> Rember to use " crop images " with " scale before crop : Scale to Short Side " : After finishing your workflow you could add a thousands images and let your Mac do the work . You will be prompted to select your images ( see first action ) . Just adapt the sizes for your corresponding device . You could also merge this into one workflow . Just duplicate the last three steps and change the suffix ( ) in action " Add text " . Here is an example image * went through my Automator workflow . Original : <URL> Result : <URL> Resizing using an application You could use the free app <URL> from the Mac App Store . This let 's you choose an image extract . The maker of another app ( <URL> ) documents the sub-pixel shifts that parallax changes can have at <URL> I hope my answer helps you with your problem concerning your image size and how to resize them . Unfortunately , I do not see an option to set a background image in Apple Configurator ( Version 3.5 ( 289 ) ) . * image by interfacelift.com
I do n't know any extension like this one , but I 've used <URL> which works really fine . It 's a small app in your menubar and gets the job done .
You can select snippets of text and drag them to the Desktop , thus creating a Text Clipping file that you can drag back to another app .
The Copy function copies the photo onto the clipboard . You can then paste it into other apps , say Mail , by tapping and holding until a contextual menu appears that says " Paste " . If you 're on a web page , you can tap and hold an image and select " Save Image " to save it to your camera roll . But you ca n't use the Copy function to " paste " it into your camera roll .
Although there is no official documentation by Apple , you can still get some information by watching iTunes and iOS doing their stuff . This can be done by monitoring log files of both , on the iPhone this can be done over an USB connection . Here 's a couple of what I 've already seen the iPhone doing in the " waiting for xy " sync stages : After copying new media to the iPhone , the media needs to be indexed , e.g. there 's metadata to be processed , thumbnails need to be created etc. . Until that is done , the media ca n't be displayed correctly in the corresponding iPhone apps , so iTunes waits for the iPhone Media Indexer service to complete it 's work . When copying new apps to an iPhone , the packaged - files need to unpack and install , e.g. register in the iPhone 's homescreen , app lists , file extension databases etc , this is done during that stages of sync . The spotlight search might need time to index new files , iTunes waits for this as well ( not always , but sometimes ! ) When iTunes transfers files to an iPhone , it always verifies the file 's contents in several ways , being it archive integrity or hashes that are compared . These processes do need plenty of time , depending on the size of the transferred data , and iTunes waits for successful verification in order to complete the sync . When there are copy failures detected by any of the verification methods , iTunes will copy the files again . Often these processes are not displayed by iTunes , it is done during the " Waiting for items to copy " - processing . iTunes will also wait for copy processes to terminate successfully , there are streams and sockets to close when data is transferred between computers . Although this should happen instantly , sometimes there are failures and the iPhone needs some time . In general , you can say that iTunes utilizes these stages for verification and error correction as well as doing " completional " work . They get extremely useful especially when using WiFi sync , which is much more error-prone than USB . Edit : To view the log files of an iPhone/iPad , no jailbreak is required . The best tool probably is <URL> , a bundle of free open-source software licensed under <URL> . It is capable of handling an iOS device without the need of iTunes , so even on linux machines . Although being desinged for linux machines , it can be run on Mac as well , e.g. by compiling the <URL> , or , even easier , by installing through <URL> . Although I 'm always using it on linux machines , this should work the same way on Mac OS X . You probably need to pair your iPhone first , use the - binary for this . It should find your USB-connected iPhone on it 's own , if it does n't , you can try passing the UUID of your device . After paring succeeded ( it will display a success-message to your terminal interface ) , use the - application to view the log files of your iPhone . It will connect to the - socket of your device automatically , if it does n't , you may pass the UUID again . Then all log messages will get posted to on your computer , e.g. to your terminal output . There is proprietary software as well that allows you to read the logs on your iOS device , but as a command line - and open source-tool should be preferred .
It depends what you expect to get out of a router . I just use an AirPort Extreme , and at any time there are at least 7 devices connected , 3 of which are on the 5ghz band , 3 are on 2.4 ghz , and the other 2 are wired . It 's possibly the most reliable router I 've had , and is incredibly easy to configure and maintain . I also have 2 hard drives and a printer connected to it 's USB port via a USB hub . The only issue I have with it is that it does n't play nicely if I try to set-up an incoming VPN connection on my Windows server , however it does work if I run a VPN on an OS X server I borrowed to test .
Each size ( Internet Recovery Mode and OS X reinstall ) is comparable to the sizes of the respective dmg files containing the Base OS X/full OS X install . So booting once to Internet Recovery Mode requires the download of about 650 MB and restoring your original operating system -- which depends on your MacBook Air model -- requires an additional download of about ~ 4.7 GB ( Lion ) to ~ 5.7 GB ( Yosemite ) . You ca n't download and install El Capitan directly because the original system of the newest MacBook Air was 10.10.2 .
This is hard to guess , as you can imagine . If the machine had kernel panics the usual ( but not only ) suspects are RAM chips . You can probably try new RAM ( google for OWC , CRUCIAL , etc. ) . The battery can be replaced at an Apple Store ( of course you 'll have to pay for it ) . The Hard Drive could be a problem too , so maybe if you had to replace it , adding an SSD instead would boost the performance . In the end , there 's little else you can replace without having to ditch the entire motherboard , and that 's probably not worth the cost outside the warranty . Running a Linux ( more tolerant sometimes with dubious RAM/Hardware in general ) is a decent alternative . Ubuntu ( among others ) is a decent OS for casual users .
The user buys an app for the price it is sold at that point . Future changes to the price have no effect on them . It is on their Apple ID that they own the app and they will be able to download the app for free as long as it 's available ( no matter the price ) .
The word ' today ' does n't register with Siri and reminders . Reading through the documentation on <URL> I found this : If you enter " breakfast " or " morning , " Reminders sets a 9 a.m. notification . If you enter " lunch " or " noon , " Reminders sets a 12 p.m. notification . If you enter " dinner " or " night , " Reminders sets an 8 p.m. notification . If you enter a day , but do n't enter a time , Reminders sets a 12 p.m. notification . If you enter a time , but do n't enter a day , Reminders sets a notification for today . It does n't mention Siri , yet after some testing the rules seem close to the same for Siri input , although the times do n't match . Solutions : Give Siri a time without a date . " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners at 5pm " Give Siri a duration " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners in 2 hours " Use " evening " and Siri will set the reminder for 6pm " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners this evening " Use " tonight " . Siri will set the reminder for 7pm " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners tonight " Use " noon " and Siri will set the reminder for 12pm " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners at noon " Use " morning " and Siri will set the reminder for 7am " Remind me to go to the dry cleaners in the morning " Last note , if you are past the time that the word represents Siri gets confused . Asking " this evening " after 6pm will cause Siri to ask you when you 'd like to be reminded .
Can you try downloading again or ensure that the about box says " v18 .0 " ? v18 should fix this bug ( we have n't pushed the auto-update due to some unresolved issues with hybrid graphics cards . )
Since your iPhone let you sign up for an iCloud account , you have full access to the web services provided by iCloud.com , which include : Contacts Calendars Mail Find My iPhone You are only limited by your computer , but still have access to the web tools . There may be ( unsupported ) ways to get some of these applications on your 10.5 Mac to sync , especially with Mail . Most of iCloud uses standard networking protocols , and therefore older programs may be able to use them . One may want to tread lightly though , since this is unsupported , and may cause issues/corruption in other parts that are supported ( ie , you would n't want to edit your contacts in a way on 10.5 even if you could , since it could break them on your iPhone ) .
This feature can be a bit unpredictable sending locations to Android with some of them receiving the location and others not ( in actuality they all " receive " the message , just some systems do n't know how to translate the information hence your friends white screen ) . However , you could give something like <URL> a go , since it 's a third party app for both iPhone and Android the messaging systeming is not OS dependent . It has some other distinct advantages but <URL> has a good article aout the location sharing function they added last year .
I looked around for something like <URL> a while back but everything I found was pretty horrid . In the end I decided to just use and on the command line .
Generally speaking there 's nothing you have to do except launch the application that supports your hardware . If you add a new network device , it is immediately listed the next time you open the Network preference pane in System Preferences . If you add a new sound device , is it immediately listed in the Sound preference pane in System Preferences . ( You can also Option + Click the volume icon in your menu bar within seconds of plugging your device in and see it in the list . ) You do n't need to " add new hardware " to use it . If it is compatible , it generally just shows up .
The rules for the Mac App store are converging towards that of the iOS App store . The iOS App store currently allows the use of almost any programming language ( even Basic or Assembly ) , as long as everything required for that language ( code , interpreter , runtime , libraries , etc. ) is bundled with the app . For instance , many iPhone games have a built-in Lua interpreter or a C# runtime . If a language used by an app requires any separately installed support other than that built into the Lion Mac OS distribution , the review guidelines say that app will be rejected . Cocoa and webkit ( for Javascript ) are currently built into the Mac OS X distribution . So , if you want to use Java , you might be able to get away with including your own complete JVM and all needed runtime support libraries for Java in the app bundle . BTW , XCode supports using C++ and Objective C++ code , as well as Objective C and its plain C subset . But you may have to use some Objective C APIs to make an application compliant with all the UI guidelines , even in a mostly C++ app .
end question
start question
Restarting speakers without rebooting ?
Sometimes changing the sound output from your system preferences > sound panel will reinitialize the connection to your hardware . If you only have one output device available , try installing <URL> , just to have a second output in your list that you can cycle through . <URL> Also : setting things back up after a reboot is a snap with snow leopard . It can remember which apps you had open and reopen them for you .
Try this : On the mac : Right click the wi-fi icon Click Create network . By default it will use the name you have given your mac as the network name . On the other host , it should see the new network . Join it .
I found out recently in iOS 6 you do n't need the official Twitter client installed nor the Facebook client . I use Tweetbot for Twitter , and I am still able to use the built in Twitter features for iOS without having reinstalled the official Twitter app . Notifications are generally handled by the individual applications through the notification centre and therefore you do n't need the twitter client installed , since your preferred client will handle these . It seems that the link for this in the settings page is only to make you aware that you need another client to read actual Twitter/Facebook messages and to get all functionality . iOS provides native authentication and tweeting functionality . The reason for the recommendation to install the twitter app is due to the fact that iOS does not support reading tweets or notifications natively . I found this out by accident setting up my iPhone 5 . I have since removed the official app from my iPad HD and everything still works .
<URL> question over on StackExchange lead me to Apple 's <URL> , specifically , the background section . This lists the activities apps are aloud to run in the background , camera access is not one of them . This would also be a terrible condition for battery life and so it is not surprising that it is not supported . While this does n't guarantee that none of your apps will try to get access to your camera , you can rest assured that if anyone tried to , Apple would reject their app . This also ensures that there 's no API for background camera access , so unless someone has figured out a way to hack non-jail broken iOS at a very low level , we can all sleep safely with only the watchful eye of Siri upon us . Edit : Per my discussion with timothymh below , I realized you may have been asking about if you are still using a given app , having take a picture without switching to a new app . With more interesting reading from <URL> , we find that the camera API wo n't hand you data until a picture is taken or a video completed . Because the camera is n't handled by a daemon , it would be very difficult to be constantly polling the camera for input , even if you found a way past the API to get data without user input . Note I 'm not an Apple developer , but from an official standpoint , it appears what you 're talking about should n't be possible .
I had to take it to the carrier , they did n't tell me if I could do this without them . That 's all I know :(
OK , as it turns out the test user can only be used from within the sandbox environment , which makes certain sense . This is described <URL> .
Get an iPhone case that provides backup power . You can maneuver iPhone completely hands-free by saying " Hey Siri " if you are willing to keep your phone plugged in to a portable USB battery while you walk around . iOS 8 has " Hey Siri " built-in : Settings > General > Siri > " Hey Siri " > Enabled The rub : " Hey Siri " only listens when phone is plugged in to power . The fix : Bring a portable USB backup battery and keep your phone plugged in ! Some protective iPhone cases also have built-in batteries you can use to charge your iPhone when the time comes . I imagine this would be the most convenient way to accomplish what you would like to do without having to carry extra items . I asked around the Genius Bar at an Apple Store in Chicago why they suppose such a feature would have such a restriction , and the general consensus suggested was that people in close proximity would likely set off each other 's phones . My personal suspicion is that constantly polling in the background might be costly in terms both of battery life as well as network traffic , and most people plug in where WiFi is much more likely to be available . I figured Siri would recognize our voices by now ! =)
Apps can run from anywhere , so if you do n't want to authenticate as an admin user , you 'll want to write it to / Users/Shared or ~ and expand your path to accommodate wherever you chose to land the package . If you 're working in a lab situation , you can make a USB drive called dev and a folder named bin to contain gcc would require something like this for the default bash shell :
Not true - mean sure can install apps from dmg . The Lion remain a full-blown OS , with all common functions , like Terminal.app , root access , Developer system , and so on . When here is no way block installing applications if you will have a root access , so Apple sure will NOT TRY do this . The following is only my opinion : On the other side - most of developers will sell their apps via AppStore ( because it is easy ) , so here will be less " demo downloads " ( what was possible activated by simple serial # ) . IMHO , over the time will be here more and more application in AppStore in two versions , like for example : SudokuLite.app ( like current demo versions ) - free , Sudoku.app ( full paid version )
<URL> says MacPorts can pre-compile ports into binaries so applications need not be compiled when installing on a target system . MacPorts may create two types of binaries : archives and packages . However I found issues with the pkgs a few years ago which might have been fixed and the following ois more how I view macports . If macports does have a binary package which it does in most cases then it behaves exactly as a package install including man pages . The only difference is that you need the command line compiler and the macports sources ( not the sources of the packages ) installed and that the code is in / opt/local . Also due to shared libraries you ca n't just take an executable and run it it probably depends on other shared libraries which macports also provides . As for centralisation you could easily install on one machine and then rsyuc or rdist to all the others ( or other OSX replication mechanisms ) or as macports pointed out set up a local repo .
<URL> is a paper by Matthew Brocker and Stephen Checkoway from the Johns Hopkins University . In this paper they explain on how to disable the LED when using the camera . In short : normally you use the CPU to access the camera and activate the LED , but you can also use the processing unit in on the camera board itself and this will not activate the green LED . The authors also provide software to protect you against these problems . iFixit had the same question and their <URL> was also based on the same paper : according to the researchers , the vulnerability they discovered affects " Apple internal iSight webcams found in earlier-generation Apple products , including the iMac G5 and early Intel-based iMacs , MacBooks , and MacBook Pros until roughly 2008 . " While the attack outlined in the paper is limited to these devices , researchers like Charlie Miller suggest that the attack could be applicable to newer systems as well . " There 's no reason you ca n't do it -- it 's just a lot of work and resources but it depends on how well [ Apple ] secured the hardware , " Miller says . In short : Yes , the iSight can be used without green light as it is not hardwired .
Yes - the Apple Remote Desktop app allows you to curtain the controlled computer to lock out anyone that 's physically at the computer while you work remotely . You could also set your work Mac to boot to a harmless account that auto logs in and is not an administrator . When you use OS X screen sharing ( as opposed to Remote Desktop ) it will ask you if you want to share screen with the " dummy " user and you can decline and start your own session that is n't visible locally . Try the second unless you want to invest in the Remote Desktop tool or ca n't add a second user due to work constraints .
You should explicitly deauthorize it . The standard way is to use iTunes . But if you do not want to install or use iTunes , you can get Apple Support to help you : Go to the <URL> page Click on the Contact iTunes Store support link ( click OK when it prompts you about redirecting you to another page ) This currently takes you to the What 's happening with iTunes ? page Click the Account Management box to open up further options Click the iTunes authorization or de-authorization link Choose how you would like help - the current options are for Apple to call you or to schedule a call back from Apple or email Apple Support Provide the details of the Apple ID and the device in the request for deauthorization
You can add the Lock Screen to your Menubar . In Spotlight ( ⌘ + Space ) search for Open Preferences ( ⌘ + , ) Check This will show a lock in your Menu Bar with an option ( Optional ) > > or Tab In the or section , add a new item for with the Menu Title of and a Keyboard shortcut that you like . This way you do n't have to change your Screensaver timeout and you can lock your machine much like you do in windows . Note that You may also need to Logout and back in for any changes to the shortcut to take effect .
There is a wine port for OS X : <URL> From the project page : Current Status ( x86 ) Wine works well on OSX for Intel based Macs minus a proper distribution package ( Mac Application Bundle ) to fully integrate with " drag and drop " and " open " or " open with " functionality . Wine also has shortcomings with desktop icon integration and execution of certain types of DOS or blended Windows/DOS programs . ( Notice that Darwine , the original effort to port Wine to OS X , was primarily written for PowerPC Macs . Some work was done to support Intel Macs , but it is <URL> , so you are better off avoiding it . ) There are no official Wine packages available for Intel Macs as of this writing , so you 'll have to use a third-party application like WineBottler ( <URL> ) , PlayOnMac ( <URL> , for Snow Leopard and Lion ) . or Wineskin ( <URL> , for Lion and Mountain Lion ) . daviewales has mentioned in a comment below a package manager I did n't know of called Homebrew ( <URL> ) . You may want to give it a try . Otherwise you can try the commercial product CrossOver , which is basically Wine with , as Wikipedia puts it , various compatibility patches added , more user-friendly configuration tools , and commercial support . You can download a free trial here : <URL>
If the phone is carrier locked , your best bet is to establish service with Verizon and get it unlocked . It 's probably unlocked though so you might have luck putting any carrier 's valid SIM into the phone . The SIM does n't necessarily even need to be active - just that it once was valid and used . Basically a Verizon sim will get you past the screen , possibly others as well initially .
I would take a look at Rogue Amobea 's application LineIn . LineIn is a free app and can be found at <URL> . From Rogue Amobea 's site : LineIn is a simple application for OS X to enable the soft playthru of audio from input devices . In simpler terms , you can use LineIn to play sound coming in through a microphone or any other device plugged in to your Sound In port , just as was once available with OS 9 's " Play input through output device " option .
Not very good solutions , but it works for me . I deleted all profiles , certificates . Then I generated new profiles , certificates and install it .
I am not sure , but does Airfoil have a Helper application running in the background ? Maybe you have to quit that one as well instead of just restarting AirFoil ? Also , do you have the latest version ? I have just checked and the Release Notes on the Rogue Amoeba website have a bugfix in the latest release 4.6.2 from a few weeks ago that seems to match your problem : <URL> Airfoil now disconnects from remote speakers upon sleeping , to prevent error messages on waking . Maybe that update can solve your problem ?
Just by typing the first letters of the user 's name should select that user . Afterwards , as you say , pressing Enter will prompt for the password .
end question
start question
Do I need to " unregister " an OSX virtual machine ?
There 's no registration for OS X , and nothing in the code to detect and prevent you running more than two VMs . It 's purely a legal restriction . If you 've deleted the VM , then you 're fine .
The command-line way : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) and type replacing with the POSIX-style path to the folder you want to hide ( for example , a folder on your desktop called test would be ) . To unhide it , type . The freeware way : I have n't used it , but I 've seen the app <URL> , by Altomac .
No , never . Defragmentation is helpful on spinning platter-based drives , if the filesystem does n't handle it ( <URL> ) , because it takes time for the disk to spin around to the right spot , which has to happen more often if one chunk of data is split between several locations . See <URL> . A solid state drive has no moving parts , so there 's no mechanical delay . Reading a section of data takes approximately the same amount of time no matter where it 's located in the flash . Defragmenting a solid state drive is actually harmful because it forces the drive to move data around for no good reason , and flash chips have a limit on how many times they can rewrite a section .
You need to extend the windows disk size from a running windows . Here is how you do it : <URL> Now that you have extended the VMware image size , you need to start at # 6 in the link . EDIT : I do n't want to write a new answer , and the comment text-box is n't large enough - so here is a more less re-write of the link : 1 ) extend the VMware image size . 2 ) attach the HD image to an existing virtual disk of the same OS as the resized image ( Virtual Machine Libary - > [ select the VM to use ] - > Settings - > Hard Disks - > [ click + ] - > [ select the new HD in left menu ] - > File name - > Choose existing disk ... - > [ navigate to the resized image , and select the . vmdk ] - > [ choose " Share this virtual disk ... " ] - > Open - > Apply ) - if you will go the safe way , you 'll choose " Make a separate copy af the virtual disk " instead of the " Share this virtual disk ... " 3 ) Start the virtual machine that you just attached the new HD to . 4 ) Now because you are using Windows 7 , you need to go to " Start - > Computer Management - > Disk Manager " and right-click on the partition you need to extend , and select " Extend Volume " . 5 ) power off ( shutdown VM ) - and remove the HD attached in # 2 - do n't delete it ... ! 6 ) if you in # 2 choose to make a copy of the . vmdk , then you need to replace it manually in the VMware image file ( package ) - right click on the VMware image ( . vmwarevm ) - > Show Package Contents . 7 ) Power on the virtual machine from # 1 , and verify the disk size change .
<URL> is a good option as well . For marketing purposes : Features include automatic installation of packages and separately installed and isolated GHC . Installable from Homebrew with .
Your best bet is Apple 's <URL> . There are also assorted USB ethernet adapters available from various sources ( including <URL> ) , including a few <URL> , but the Thunderbolt one will likely have the best performance , so unless you 're using both Thunderbolt ports already , that 's the better choice .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
Yes , it 's straightforward to do it , even though it would take quite sometime to complete depending on the size of your current backups . Follow the detailed procedure at <URL> . Here 's a summary of what 's required and the steps . The backups go into a sparsebundle on a . So you need to create that sparsebundle on the , mount it in and then copy over everything from your USB drive into the mounted volume . Here are the basic steps with some additional information : Configure to back up to the and start a backup . This will make it create the sparsebundle . Cancel the backup once the copying starts ( as seen in the progress window ) . Mount the sparsebundle in by double-clicking it ( or using Cmd + Down Arrow ) Delete the folder inside this volume ( you 'll be replacing it with the backup you already have ) . Open your current backup USB drive in and copy the folder from it to the partition ( mounted from the ) . Enter your administrator password and accept the prompts ( this may happen a couple of times ) .
Simple answer : No . Apple does not allow iOS to run anywhere else but iOS devices ( iPhone , iPad , iPod touch ) and the Xcode simulator . You could simulate OS X on your Windows VM application and then use Xcode to simulate an iOS device , but this would be really taxing on your computer and really not worth the effort , but you can not simulate iOS directly on Windows because of chipsets and Apple preventing it .
If you have a number of events you want to enter and you have their times in another zone , it 's very handy to use Calendar 's time zone support . First , go to Calendar - > Preferences , and click Turn on time zone support . This will enable a dropdown in the titlebar of your Calendar window : You can then use this menu to change the display of everything in your calendar to a new time zone . Pull it down and select Eastern time ( or whatever other time zone or city your event is in ) , and Calendar will convert all your times to that zone . At this point , you can start entering events , using the times listed in the program for the event . You will also see a new detail in the event detail popup : This shows what time zone the event is in . Once you 've entered all the events , turn the time zone back . That will display all your events in your own time zone . If you are syncing with your phone ( which knows what time zone it is in ) all the events will remind you at the right time .
You have implied the reason in " the massively powerful primary processor " It takes electrical power to produce power in computing . Thus if you need something to be on all the time you want a smaller processor than the main one to save battery power .
Two 27 " displays will ( obviously ) take up quite a bit of room . You 'll probably want to look for a desk that has built-in mounting points for your VESA arms ( or built-in VESA arms ) so you do n't have to hang the displays off the wall . ( If you want to rotate the monitor , Apple 's Thunderbolt displays do n't have any built-in rotation ability , so you 'll need an arm that does that , too . OS X 's Displays preferences are where you 'll go to set the rotation on the display . ) There are several different caddies for your MacBook ( such as the <URL> ) that will keep it out of the way of your displays .
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
The problem is to do with the file system . Whilst I had mentioned in some comments that I had plugged it into a Windows machine , I should have mentioned this in the main post . I assumed that Windows would pick up there 's a drive there , even if it could n't read the files , but I misunderstood how file systems work . To fix this , I simply installed MacDrive 9 ( there 's also HFSExplorer ) and plugged the hard disk directly into my PSU on my main system at work , and lo , behold the data ! . I was quite surprised . I will not make this mistake again , as it was written in the book of data " thou shalt back up thy data otherwise a mighty plague of death upon your magnetic storage ! " So remember , Windows just fails to recognise an HFS-formatted drive .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
Use to get a list of existing ( completed ) backups . Then run one or both of
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
System Prefs > Keyboard > Keyboard > Show Keyboard , Emoji &amp; Symbol viewers in menu bar . <URL>
Mac OS X home and end keys do not function the same way as they do on other systems . On Mac , the Home and End keys go to the top and bottom of a document , instead of to the beginning or end of a line . Check out this <URL> article which shows how to remap the functionality of the home and end keys to make them perform like they do on other systems .
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
end question
start question
Does Apple 's license for OS X allow it to be virtualized on an HP PC ?
Lion is the first Mac OS X to license some virtualization on the non-server OS . From the 10.7 EULA : ( iii ) to install , use and run up to two ( 2 ) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software . Notice the condition , though : it 's only allowed on Mac hardware when running Lion as the host OS . There are also provisions for installing it over Snow Leopard macs . Running it on HP hardware would likely be a violation of the license as written . Check with your lawyer as always when the question of legality is involved since any license has to respect your local laws .
I think he 's asking about actually using an iPhone as a GPS module for a laptop , rather than sending a location which can be viewed on a laptop . This functionality is n't available unless you jailbreak your iPhone , then you can use xGPS or any of the similar apps on Cydia which can turn your iPhone into a bluetooth GPS module .
Note the original question asked why Apple shipped an old version of bash and then asked how to upgrade . This is an answer to the original . If the question is just the latter then it is a duplicate You would have to ask Apple as to why . However I would note that bash is now licensed under GPLv3 and 3.2.57 is the last version released under GPL2 . As bash is in / bin you should not replace it directly as this can be updated or modified by Apple at any time and now with SIP it is also more difficult to change . Also scripts elsewhere might depend one this version You can however add bash from <URL> or from a package manager like Macports or Homebrew . You can then change the Terminal.app profile to start this shell rather than bash Macports is Homebrew is As of 14/6/16 - the stable version of bash is 4.3.42 and updates usually come rapidly through both port systems . Or you could change your shell to another that Apple supplies e.g. zsh which is more powerful than bash ( version up to date of release of El Capitan ) or ksh which is upto date . ( or tcsh which is a C shell but also reasonably up to date )
<URL> for OSX and <URL> for iOS Only 1.2 MB in size . ( Mac version ) The iOS version works on both the iPad and iPhone . Fullscreen Autosave Reading time , word counter sync via Dropbox supports <URL>
You get two distinct , functioning displays unless you choose to mirror . Same with AirPlay . From <URL> : Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution [ 2304 by 1440 ] on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on an external display , both at millions of colors
Its old question , but still if it helps anyone . You need following 2 in order to maximise your window when clicked on title bar : Go to Apple icon > System Preferences > Dock > Select " Double-click a window 's title bar to " " Zoom " Shift + Double click on title bar to maximise the window . Cheers
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
An alternative is <URL> . It has a handy little window with a sound visualizer : Once it identifies the song , it displays the name and artist : And takes you to a link where you can download it from iTunes or buy the ringtone version :
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
snow leopard ( OS X 10.6 ) is also the first Mac OS release since the introduction of <URL> that does not support the <URL> architecture , as Apple now intends to focus on <URL> . Thus OSX supported PowerPC upto and including version 10.5 ( Leopard )
Start with log files . You have a program in your folder called ; Fire that up , and it will show you a collection of log files - you should inspect these to see if there is anything obvious showing up at the time of your crashes . Once you have discovered something that looks odd , or consistent across your crashes , you can google it or ask again here .
I found the following terminal command , which allows setting the date created :
Like everything else you purchase in the Mac App Store , you can install Lion on all of your Macs after buying it once . There is no activation process or DRM . Here 's the relevant excerpt from Lion 's license agreement ( emphasis mine ) : If you obtained a license for the Apple Software from the Mac App Store , then subject to the terms and conditions of this License and as permitted by the Mac App Store Usage Rules set forth in the App Store Terms and Conditions ( http://www.apple.com/legal/itunes/ww/ ) ( " Usage Rules " ) , you are granted a limited , non-transferable , non-exclusive license : ( i ) to download , install , use and run for personal , non-commercial use , one ( 1 ) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running Mac OS X Snow Leopard or Mac OS X Snow Leopard Server ( " Mac Computer " ) that you own or control ;
If you ca n't work out what " Always Allow " does , I would suggest running something like <URL> to see what OS X changes . If it hits a plist file then you 'll be able to run defaults on it . I 'm assuming its probably in the com.apple.applicationaccess.plsit . ( But not tested )
I use Espresso on a daily basis . You 'll need to the <URL> and the <URL> to get the code completion . Espresso also have a preview functionality that helps a lot in developing a page with minute differences .
I do not have Alfred installed however I would think the following method should work . For example , using the Script Editor set to JavaScript the following code returned my login name . So , I 'd assume that if " " is the actual environment variable , then the following might work as well .
Yes , The USB recovery drive shipped first with a MacBook Air and Lion was also sold as a full retail OS on USB write only format instead of the retail DVD/CD that used to be available for purchase . Apple discontinued this practice a few years ago and has started distributing OS X via the <URL> . You can make a bootable version of the installer from the App Store version if you have a USB stick handy . There 's a free , AppleScript-based program called <URL> that will help you build a bootable USB stick for Mavericks . You 'll have to download the installer from the App Store first . Just cancel the installation after the download and Mavericks will remain in your Applications folder for DiskMaker X to find and use .
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
Yes - anything you do to reduce the number of writes to an SSD will prolong " the life of the drive " . Also yes - the memory ( RAM disk ) is an order of magnitude faster ( between 10 to 1000 times as fast based on what exact workload you want to measure ) than just the SSD . Whether you ever get to a point where your SSD fails due to write exhaustion or if something else breaks first ( or you sell the device ) is hard to estimate even for a statistical group of 1000 machines used in a proscribed manner . I would n't worry about trying to extend my SSD life and instead worry about making the Mac you have work well for the specific tasks you need . The OS already caches much of the filesystem to RAM , so you 'll need a very specific workload to do a better job at caching than the OS already does for free . Also , a repair part is not that expensive should you actually wear out that one part before you 're done with that computer . Yes , try not to have un-necessary writes and thrashing an SSD , but since Apple designs the SSD to be covered under AppleCare for three years - it 's not in their interest to have lots of SSD needing replacement due to them picking a part that wo n't last long enough in practice .
No , the update will not be free ( though it is yet unclear what the price will be , possibilities ranging from $ 29 to $ 129 ) , and will only be free for those who purchase computers within 2 weeks of the update coming out ( this is usually the time window for the free upgrades that Apple offers ) in the summer . If you 've purchased your computer recently , sorry , but you 'll have to pay for it .
end question
start question
Possible to move the cursor word-by-word with Cmd + left/right instead of Alt + left/right ?
One option would be to create ~ / Library/KeyBindings / and save this as DefaultKeyBinding.dict : You ca n't change ⇧ ⌘ ← or ⇧ ⌘ → though . And it does n't work in some text views or Xcode or Firefox . Using KeyRemap4MacBook , you could add this to <URL> : It would make going back with ⌘ ← and changing tabs with ⇧ ⌘ ← stop working though . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> .
One option would be to create ~ / Library/KeyBindings / and save this as DefaultKeyBinding.dict : You ca n't change ⇧ ⌘ ← or ⇧ ⌘ → though . And it does n't work in some text views or Xcode or Firefox . Using KeyRemap4MacBook , you could add this to <URL> : It would make going back with ⌘ ← and changing tabs with ⇧ ⌘ ← stop working though . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> .
According to <URL> it is supposed to open the " Dictionary " app . However , according to that discussion does n't seem to work if the screensaver is set to require a password . I have not tried on MacOS X 10.8 , but on 10.9 it is no longer possible to disable the password of the screensaver and only set the time after which the screensaver activates . So it seems that it is no longer supposed to work and it is a sentence they forgot .
Times have changed since this question was asked . CloudOn has been bought and shut down by DropBox . Currently , the best way to edit Word documents on iOS is with the <URL> app .
You can manually make the " th " superscript . Highlight the " th " , then in the menu bar , select " Format > Font > Baseline > Superscript " . There is also a keyboard shortcut : ⌃ + ⌘ + +
It 's difficult to answer your question without more concrete examples of " all garbled . " But the answer is probably " no , there 's no one setting to make everything work out the way you want . " Since the two programs are very different , it 's challenging to get a one-to-one correspondence of document formats when you export out of Pages to . doc format . In general , my advice is that your exported . doc files will look closer to your Pages documents if you use Pages ' Word Processing mode , rather than its Page Layout mode . Mixing images with text , especially in a page layout fashion ( with text wrapped around images and the like ) , is especially problematic , since the . doc format is n't as well suited as Pages for that sort of thing . If you want your associates to see just what you are creating , you are probably better off to send them a PDF from Pages than to try to use . doc format . If they need to make changes/edits/comments to your work , I would suggest that you send them the initial text ( without inline images ) in RTF , then incorporate their changes into your Pages document by hand , then produce your final document in Pages and end up as PDF .
The 6th gen Nano can now be <URL> which introduced the features from the 7th gen , including 16 watch faces , some of which are digital . Version 1.2 of the iPod nano software brings improved fitness features ( which are better able to detect and track walking or running work outs ) , as well as the new single icon scrolling interface , which replaces the 4 × 4 icon grid . You can switch back to small icons or turn off home screen items altogether from the Settings menu . Last but not least , you 'll get access to all the new iPod nano clock face options .
Using KeyRemap4MacBook , you could add this to <URL> : Further details : Open KeyRemap4MacBook - Mis &amp; Uninstall - Open private.xml Edit and Add the above snippet between and Go to the tab in the KeyRemap4MacBook and press Then select the " Powerpoint " box under
You can use the following app called Mousecape : <URL> After downloading , installing both the app and the helper app , do the following : Go to the Mousecape preferences and choose " I am left handed " . Dump the system cursors into a cape from the menu : " Capes " → " Dump Cursors " Apply the Cursor Dump cape ( right click → apply ) Done !
You can use a service created by Automator to call your python script . Once your service is created , it will be available in the service submenu of your contextual menu .
The simplest way is to create your own Service and call it whatever you want to name it . I created a service simply called and put it in my context menu like I have done here : Make Your Own Delete Service Open up Automator ( / Applications/Utilities/Automator ) and create a new Service At the top right pane , select in On the left most pane , select and drag the option to the workflow Change the " Pass input " field to Pase the following into the shell script body 6 . Click > on the menubar and give you service a name . Whatever you name it , is what it will be called This will enable it immediately on your system . If you ever decide you do n't want it , and need to replace this item , navigate to and you will see a list of folders called . To remove the one you do n't want , just delete it then in Terminal type This will restart the Finder and remove it from the context menu straight away . Otherwise , it will clear up on next restart . Add Keyboard Shortcut To make a keyboard shortcut for the Service you created , follow these steps : From the Desktop , click the word Finder in the top left hand corner of the screen , then go to Services > Services Preferences Scroll down the list on the right until you find the service you created by name . In this example , you can see that I made earlier . Highlight it , and click on . This will bring up a box . Make sure your mouse cursor is in there and depress the keys that you want to use to set the shortcut . In my example , I have used the combination Control + Shift + L. Press Show All to save your settings . Keyboard Symbols To help anyone new to Apple keyboard symbols , here they are as follows : ^ = Control ⇧ = Shift ⌘ = Command ⌥ = Alt/Option
Numbers seems to use the decimal separator selected in System Preferences : I did n't find any way to use both comma and period as decimal separators though . Note that if you change the region from the menu at the top , it also affects things like the default values of locale variables in Terminal and iTerm .
No - the mouse is aligned on the " fake " size of the screen and not the true screen pixel grid in most cases . The concept of a physical pixel and a display pixel is a distinct one on retina displays since the hardware reports movements on a resolution-independant scale . Furthermore , there appear to be <URL> in the code side of things so even if the developer wanted to determine the next pixel 's color it appears the routine that reports mouse position does n't count physical pixels on this model screen . There is a nice , very technical article by one of the programmers for Xscope - <URL> that explains a bit how the resolution that the software is told to draw gets translated into the actual on screen pixels which is fixed . As an aside - the <URL> program is free to try and puts the digital color meter to shame on many aspects of determining color and much , much more .
To rearrange columns alphanumerically by their names , assuming the column names are in row 1 , do this : Select all cells of the table . ( Click and drag from top left cell to bottom right cell . ) Click the thin arrow button next to the ' Sort ' button and choose . In the Sort dialog box , click , and in the pop-up , choose to . Back in the main dialog box , un-check ' My list has headers ' . in Row : select ; in Sort On : select ; and in Order : select . Click OK to execute . ( based on Excel 2011 )
The menu for this is hidden under Edit > Find > Google Search ... . The shortcut is Option + Command + F.
Simply download the IPSW of the final build of iOS 8.1 from developer.apple.com , connect your device to iTunes , alt-click the Update button and select your IPSW . No data will be lost and your device will be updated .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
You ca n't at least for now , hope Apple adds more functionality to Mission Control . Although you can move all windows of a particular app between spaces ...
I use <URL> ( Better Touch Tool ) which includes window snapping , as well as a whole host of other useful features such as extra multitouch gestures , and button management . You can use as much or as little as you want , but window snapping is on by default and just means you drag an application to the top to maximise it , left to align and fill the left half , and to the right for the right . EDIT : This is called BST ( Better Snap Tool ) and it is no longer free . El Capitan has an implemented feature ( press green button until you can drop it to the side ) or check other free tools like <URL> Update : As of Feb 20 , 2016 BST is $ 2.99 USD .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
end question
start question
How do I get Xcode 4 to NOT clear the log between runs ?
I feel the same way you do about this . That 's why I 've filed a radar at bugreport.apple.com . Please reference " Problem id : 9153445 " when you filed your radar as the this will increases the incident count and making it likelier Apple Xcode team will prioritize a fix . Since bugreport.apple.com does n't allow you to search and view another 's radar , I 've copied the radar I filed at Apple at <URL> . Thanks for reminding me that this regression needs people to start filing radars .
So you went to your Keynote presentation document file and used the Finder to " Show Package Contents " then you deleted the image files you found in there . That would cause problems . Try this : Open a new Keynote document and select the Theme that you want to use as the basis for your presentation . Now do ... Delete all Master Slides that you do n't need . If you need a Master Slide with an image , replace the image with a small place holder image . For example , a JPG file with a solid color . Remove the Back Ground Image from All Remaining master slides , and remove any other unneeded elements from the slides . Click the button at the bottom of the Master Slide editing screen ( which will probably do nothing ) Give it a name such as " Church Music " Now you can create a new presentation using the " Church Music " theme . Your theme will be on the " My Themes " tab of the theme browser . After you save , you can now view the presentation 's Package Contents to make sure that there is no unused items . Keynote will generate a variety of slide previews and other images which you need to keep , but these should be very small . If there is stuff that you really do n't need , you might try re-editing the Themes Master Slides .
1GB of RAM will kill you : frankly , I ca n't imagine that it would meaningfully run . I 'm currently using a 2009 MacBook ( not Pro ) with 4GB of RAM , and for the first two or three hours Xcode runs pretty well . After that , though , it gets slower and slower . On a pretty small project Xcode will be using multiple gigabytes of RAM with the OS swapping 2-3GB to disk . Before long I not only have to quit Xcode , I also have to restart the machine to get things back up to speed . ( To head off potential commenters , no , it 's not something else on my system , it 's Xcode 4 : no other piece of software , including Photoshop operating on a 20 + GB file , fails to clear up the swapping speed problem after quitting the app . ) I can safely say , both from my experience and from talking to others , that 2GB of RAM is the bare , bare minimum , and it 's not going to be a good experience . I 'll be replacing this system soon , but in the meantime I 'm upgrading to 8GB because I 'm losing too much time to only having 4 .
Yes , as long as the message was sent to your mobile phone number , and not your registered email address you will get a text message instead of an iMessage if you have no data connection when a message is sent . iMessage is designed to seamlessly integrate with the messages application on your iPhone . Once set up and configured , your device will automatically decide whether to send an iMessage or a text message when you send a message to a contact on your phone . Basically , when you compose a message and click send , your device checks with Apple to see if the recipient has iMessage enabled for their device . If they do , your iPhone will attempt to send your text to them via iMessage . Your iPhone will then wait for a notification from apple that this message has been delivered . If this notification is received your message will have " Delivered " written under your message . However , if the message is not delivered after a few minutes your iPhone will delete the iMessage , and send your text as a regular text message instead . In the case of your example , your friends device would have attempted to send an iMessage , then after getting no delivery notification , would have sent you a text message instead . You can ensure that an iMessage is always sent by composing your message to your friends iMessage registered email address instead of their phone number . You can also set the " Caller ID " , that your phone sends when it sends an iMessage , to your email address instead of your phone number in the Settings application . This will mean that your friend replies back to your email address instead of your phone number ensuring that only an iMessage is sent , as email addresses can not receive regular text messages .
FYI , iPhone 4 does have heat sensors and if it gets dangerously hot it will show a black screen with a yellow warning sign and shut down . It 's perfectly reasonable to be concerned and take the measures you have to increase heat dissipation , but batteries warming on charging is quite normal . I would n't worry unless the iPhone displays an overheating warning consistently .
Command-Return Hold the Command key and tap the Return key This will bring you to a Finder window , where the file/app is selected within the enclosing folder .
Yes , you do have to re-buy to get updates via the Mac App Store . Via <URL> : The Mac App Store may show software bought from us previously as " Installed " , even though they 're two different licenses . You will not get Mac App Store auto-updates unless you purchase from the Mac App Store . To re-enable the " Purchase " button in the Mac App Store , just drag the app to the trash . Your preferences/sites will not be affected . In other words , for apps that use the same bundle ID for the both the Mac App Store and non-App Store versions , the Mac App Store will not install updates to already-installed non-App Store versions , but it will recognize them as being already installed . If you want to get updates via the Mac App Store , you 'll have to re-buy the app through the App Store . Honestly , I 'm really surprised by this . UPDATE : I 'd recommend reading <URL> about this as it provides a more comprehensive picture of what 's going on , and includes some developer-related information .
Go to your account settings , delete your iCloud account , reboot , add it again .
As of iTunes 10 ( or possibly 9 ) , the main library window has the option to do exactly what you want . You need to have it in Album List mode ( View menu - > as Album list ; or the 2nd option in the view controller : Then select the " Album by ... " pulldown and select Album by Artist/Year : You should be all set and have a nice organized list of albums sorted by artist and year .
Double clicking your source files in the Navigator pane should make them appear in new tabs .
You can go into Mission Control ( formerly known as Expose in Snow Leopard ) , then drag the window from your current desktop the thumbnail of the other desktop , which will be at the top of the screen .
They are synchronised over iCloud , so if you log in to iCloud the list of networks and their associated passwords are added to macOS .
For the first one Press , A quick way : cmd + shift + : A permanent way For the second question , As shown in this picture ,
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
You can do this using macs built in DiskUtility.app . Insert the Windows installation DVD into the external Superdrive . Open Disk Utility , Select the USB optical drive in the left DiskUtility window . Click new image in the top bar . Select DVD/CD master from the " Image Format " submenu . Choose " None " for encryption . After the image is done , locate it in Finder and highlight the file . Press enter/return and rename the disk image file extension to . iso Eject the Window installation DVD and insert your USB that is FAT32 formatted and use Master Boot Record for the partitioning scheme . Open up Boot Camp Assistant and make sure " Create a Window 7 or later version install disk " is checked . When you click continue it will prompt you to select the location of your . iso file you created . <URL>
Besides the Compilation checkbox , look under the Sorting tab . The songs are probably configured with sort artist as " various artist " . Clear that field for all of the tracks and they will default back to the appropriate artist value .
Run the following command in Terminal , then restart your Mac . The iCloud password will appear again . And do NOT forget to change ID@APPLE.COM yo your real Apple ID .
It did n't happen to me with the latest version of iPhoto yet . But the only solution I found to fix this kind of issues in iPhoto '09 without trashing the entire iPhoto library was to remove only the Faces related files . With the '11 version the procedure would be : Close iPhoto Find your iPhoto library Right click on the photo library and chose " Show Package Content " Navigate to the directory Edit : If you save your iPhoto library regularly you can restore the files instead of deleting them . To open the iPhoto bundle in Time Machine follow the instructions in <URL> . Depending on your version of iPhoto you might have to right click on and " Show Original " Delete the original in the newly opened folder . Delete the 2 Faces files in the directory Relaunch iPhoto Go to your Photos library Select all the pictures ( click on a picture then & #x 2318 ; + A to select all pictures ) . Then in the " Photos " menu select " Detect Missing Faces " You could also try removing only some of the files in the Faces directory before and relaunching iPhoto to check which file might be corrupted in your case .
It sounds like <URL> to manually edit the user dictionary , but unfortunately it is n't anymore . Just a guess , but perhaps you can have it forget them the same way it learned them -- when it suggests the word , try tapping on the small [ x ] next to the suggestion . If you do this a few times it may " forget " the word . You can reset the dictionary entirely by going to Settings > General > Reset :
I wrote an <URL> that could solve a few of the issues for you . That was mostly for a one off time though versus ongoing . If you have an ongoing job , like one that you would have scheduled through iCal , will work nicely as well . But if you want an outright replacement to something similar to what you did with iCal/Calendar , it sounds like <URL> ' . One user even said that this new way is even easier to use . I personally think with the extra power of Automator , it also adds new power . From that site : Here 's a solution that works for me : In Automator , create a Calendar Alarm Select Utilities from the library pane Select &amp; drag Run AppleScript into the workflow area Copy/paste the AppleScript into the Run AppleScript box Save the newly created Calendar Alarm Open Calendar.app , create a new event Select the Automator calendar as your reference calendar Select Open File for the alert , and select the file you created in Automator . By default , iCal is the file that comes up when you select Open File . Change that to the name of the Automator app you created . Select Other if the file name is n't shown . The user attached some screenshots to their post , as well , but I have included a screenshot of what needs to be selected in Automator .
end question
start question
Is there a legal way to get a US App Store account from outside the US ?
I 'm not sure if using a fake address would be legal . Technically , you can create an account in the US Store using an iTunes Gift Card and a fake address/phone number . You can buy iTunes Gift Cards in eBay ( some sellers will expedite things by sending activation codes by email ) . If you 're only interested in free Apps , you can create an account without the Gift card . There is an <URL> describing the process . Regardless of payment , Apple asks for a valid US address to establish an account , so the legality of this depends on where you live .
There are a couple of potential solutions to this problem . I say potential because everyone 's listening habits and needs are different , so your mileage may vary . Here goes : The Smart Playlist problem is not new , and certainly not unique in your case . There seems to be an overall problem with Smart Playlist syncing through iTunes Match ( 1 ) across different devices , ( 2 ) with any expediency ( usually takes > = 48 hours ) , and ( 3 ) with respect to honoring certain rules ( e.g. , number of songs allowed ) . Another common theme seems to be that " nested " playlists cause even more of a problem than standard Smart Playlists . Nested lists are those that are created when you use your option key to turn the into an ellipsis ( ) , which creates a sub-rule for your master rule . Solution 1 : Dumb it down Create a standard playlist ( Dumb ) and give it the same name as your Smart playlist . Copy the content from Smart to Dumb . Sync your device , computer , whatever . Rinse , wash , repeat for each Smart Playlist you want to have properly represented on your other devices . This works . Solution 2 : Really Dumb it Down Do your best to avoid the aforementioned nested playlists . This may require you to build several smaller smart playlists with limited criteria . Not the easiest workaround , but we 're going for functionality here , right ? Solution 3 : Really make your " Recently Added " folder songs that are " Recently Added " For your " Recently Added " folder , tack on just one more rule to force songs added after a date , rather than only within the last two weeks ( see pic below ) So , I hope this gets you at least a little closer to your goal . I tried to add as much info as I could here since , one more time : everyone 's listening and categorizing habits are different :-) You may find other variations on these , but do realize that , at least for now , this is a server-side problem and workarounds like these represent the best available solutions .
You can change the shortcuts from System Preferences : They can also be changed with defaults . The shortcut format is described in the <URL> article .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
Yes , you can only use PayPal with iTunes US , and in that PayPal , you 'll need to have a US bank account or have your locations and any credit cards/debit 's on there will have to be located in the US as iTunes checks for that as well . It all has to be in the US , and can not have any other bank or CC company for any other country .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
Yes ! I had the same problem . Go to Settings → Music → Sort Albums and change this to By Title .
You need to switch to list view to reorder songs in a playlist . To switch to list view click the list view button in the upper left hand side of the top of the iTunes windows : Once you 've switch to list view you need to make sure your items are sorted by track number ( click the top of the the first column ) . Then you can drag tracks around in the playlist to reorder them . For example , I switch Planet Earth and The Valley in the playlist shown above by clicking on Planet Earth and dragging it up above The Valley and then releasing my mouse button : Edit : I just tried this in iTunes on Windows and I think I see where you 're getting the from . It 's actually okay -- just keep dragging . Apparently the is the cursor icon Apple chose for a grab action on song ( or a list of songs ) . I have no way to take a screen shot of what 's happening , but I can definitely reorder songs in Windows by clicking and dragging when in list view . Same as on OS X.
It might be placed there when an Apple employee decides to feature it .
Yes - the new mobile <URL> shows all sorts of photo metadata ( assuming you allowed the camera app to store it in the first place ) including the capture time . Camera roll and Photo stream are part of the Library , so you should be good to go . You can get the above screen by tapping the i with the rectangle to bring up the information for photos stored in the library . In the case of time , even if you deny location services , it should have the timestamp based on the file 's creation date/time .
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
If explicit you should have a little E next to the title
<URL> can do this , but its development has been a bit stale ( I do n't know if it still works ) . Window switching is fast and fun With Witch installed , a pop-up panel shows all open windows -- even windows in other Spaces , if you 're running 10.6 . From the panel , simply select the window you 'd like to activate . There is no step two ! <URL>
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
No . You can not uninstall apps from within the App Store . How can I delete an application ? You can delete them like in iOS : Open Launchpad . Click and hold the app you want to delete ( or hold & #x 2325 ;) Delete by clicking on the X. Note : The X appears only for apps which have been installed using the Mac App Store . Locate the Applications folder where the app is located : or Drag the application to the Trash . Note : This will only remove the application - this will not remove some other files which may be related to the app ( e.g. preferences ) . If you want to remove such files as well , you can use tools like <URL> which @james . garriss has mentioned . Besides this , applications which have not been installed via the Mac App Store sometimes provide their own uninstaller in the installer image . I usually keep them in a folder which I created .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
As far as I know , the only way to do this is to jailbreak and use a Cydia app called <URL> It allows you to configure the behavior of the camera button that appears on the lock screen . You can set any app to be activated by that button . See also the <URL> Settings screen : This hack will probably not work in iOS 5.1 . However , this is unconfirmed . I will update this answer when I do update and jailbreak iOS 5.1 . Besides this hack , there is no other way to change the behavior of the camera button on the lock screen .
end question
start question
Is " All My Files " slow because of my git and svn repos ?
It would seem that have too many files in Spotlight does indeed slow down " All My Files " in finder . It does n't really matter that the files are in code repos , although repos do tend to have lots of files . Upon removing my ~ / Sites folder from spotlight which contains only 15GB of data , but more than half of the 500,000 files Spotlight was indexing " All my Files " came up nearly instantly again .
On Lion/Mountain Lion , go to the Preferences on your Contact app , choose Accounts and then On My Mac , and there should be a checkbox Synchronize with Google , you will just need to provide your Gmail credentials . Just as a precaution , make a backup of your contacts first . Just need to go to Gmail , select Contacts , then the More button , Export to download all your contacts to your hard drive .
Mine 's the same as yours ( MacBook Pro 2009 2.53 GHz ) and I 've definitely noticed it 's slower than before .
Open in the Finder Press Cmd-A followed by Cmd-C Switch to Pages/Word/TextEdit / etc. . Create a new document and press Cmd-V Repeat for sub-folders of / Applications and any other place ( ~ / Applications maybe ) where you have installed applications .
If you are familiar with terminal you can use the following command ; username : your username directory : the folder in which the files you want to copy are located PS Requires an administrator 's password
In iTunes under the File menu choose Add to Library ... and select the songs you want to add to iTunes . When iTunes is done adding the files , sync your iPhone with iTunes on your PC . That 's all there is to it .
The most efficient method of deleting multiple voicemails at once on the device is using multitouch to swipe left on multiple voicemails at once , then tapping delete . If your device is jailbroken , you can delete voicemails from the location that they are stored in ( and the SQLite3 database in ) :
Yes ! It is possible to view the contents of backups . There are several programs you can use , the one I use is <URL> . You can view and extract : Messages Contacts Voicemail ( though I have not tried this ) Call history Notes Safari ( bookmarks and history ) Calendar More if you are willing to dig into folders The free version allows you to view the contents , but has restrictions on extracting them . There is also <URL> which does : Photos Recordings Again , perhaps more This is also a free / paid app , so have a look at what you need . Hope this helps .
The best version control system I have tried is GIT together with <URL> . If you are just a single developer that works on a project then SVN is okayish . However when you start collaborating with other developers or work on multiple computers , then a distributed version control system really shines . A really good app for working with GIT is <URL> .
( I 'm assuming you are referring to FileVault 2 found in OS X Lion ) The folks at AnandTech have run some <URL> . Quote : ... [ described are several I/O tests with and without FileVault enabled , including some charts you might want to have a look at ] ... Overall the hit on pure I/O performance is in the 20 - 30 % range . It 's noticeable but not big enough to outweigh the benefits of full disk encryption . [ ... ] [ emphasis above is mine ] So to answer your question : FileVault slows I/O down , and it is a measurable decrease in performance . However , I agree with the earlier quoted statement -- in that the added security is beneficial , and I use FileVault on my Macbook Air . The answer on the second question is " it depends " . The TimeMachine backup process must certainly read a lot of data from the FileVault-encrypted disk , so the reading portion of the backup will be slower . However , whether or not the overall backup performance suffers considerably depends on where the bottleneck is in the system -- e.g. is it a very fast backup drive , or a very slow backup drive ? Is it connected by USB ( slower ) , or Thunderbolt ( faster ) ? If the write speed is terrible , that will govern the overall speed of the backup , not so much the read speed having been reduced a bit . Ergo , it depends .
If you enable iTunes Match , your entire library ( up to 25.000 ) songs will be synced with your iCloud . So all your songs are in the iCloud . You can add a device to the iCloud and by so , all your music on the new device will be synced onto the new device . That 's how iTunes Match works . If you computer/hard drive gets stolen , you buy a new one and authorize it with you iCloud , it will sync once again on your new device . So yes , you 'll be able to download all your music stored in your iCloud onto new device . As a matter of fact , even when the original device lost it 's files , the songs are still stored in iCloud . But be aware , the limit on devices is set on 10 . So make sure you have n't add 10 devices already ! EDIT : Proof of this is on the <URL>
Your statements are all true . Though the geotagging on the first iPhone was n't really precise since there was no built-in GPS : it used the GSM triangulation to localize the phone ( <URL> ) .
rsync ( from Terminal ) has an option for that ( -- ignore-errors ) . However crafting the right command line arguments may be somewhat complicated . A nice rsync GUI is <URL> ( donationware ) After you are satisfied with the cloning setting , launch clone in CCC and immediately after run from terminal and you will see the right command line arguments . Then just add -- ignore-errors
As with @napcae 's answer , the " slow motion genie " effect is just a bit of fun , but I have used it in the past to demonstrate ( usually to Windows users ) some of the finer points of the Mac OS X display subsystems . Namely , that rather than drawing each window on a pixel by pixel basis ( think of Windows systems that leave random stray parts of windows as you drag them around and the window subsystem struggles to keep up with all the redraw mechanisms resulting in scroll bars hanging in mid air , or that nasty windows trail thing ) , OS X essentially draws a windows contents using something that is more akin to a 3D game engine mapping a texture to a polygon . You can demonstrate this by having the following command ready in a terminal window , and quickly executing it while you slow-minimise a window : The dock process is the thing that governs all this sort of thing , and if you kill it it will happily respawn a new one , but the operations that it was part way through completing wo n't get finished or reversed . You will end up with a half minimised window that is warped into a strange shape and yet which is still fully usable . Check it out with textedit , and note that you can still type in it ( selecting text is more difficult ! ) , or try it with a Quicktime movie window and notice how the thing is still playing . Essentially its not just a daft effect , it 's demonstrating the window drawing capabilities of the display layer , and how they are managed in a superior way to many other desktop OS window systems . Note that this effect has been around since at least 2001 ( according to a Google search ) , and I first knew about it in 10.4 where I saw it used to show off the new graphical window manager that used the Quartz Extreme engine to draw the windows . If I recall the details correctly essentially every windows is basically made up of Quicktime , Open GL or Quartz 2D data source , the latter of which is essentially internally rendered into postscript ( essentially all your window dressing elements , toolbars , scroll bars , are a PDF ... ) , which is then rastered into a single window combining all the elements ( Your PDF window dressing , with it 's quicktime or openGL contents , or a mix there of for a web page etc ) as a 3d " texture " on a 2d plane by Quartz Composer to make the window you see . For more details <URL> over at Arstechnica which discusses the way in which the window manager has evolved and has a pretty good explanation of how it works , which is by and large the same now as it was for Tiger ( or at least , the changes are not as large since Tiger as they were before Tiger which is when the GPU started to take over pretty much all window drawing tasks from the CPU )
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
When the phone is asleep ( also known as hibernation mode ) , the WiFi radio is shut off after a time to conserve battery power . Anything that occurs on the phone , such as receiving notifications , background app updates , et cetera , uses the cellular network instead of WiFi . The one notable exception would be iCloud backup , for which the phone wakes the WiFi radio .
The short answer to this is : No . As far as I 'm aware , you ca n't mount your Dropbox account as some sort of remote file share - its synced files are always written to your local disk . That said , you can change the location of the Dropbox folder away from its default of , so if you have a separate internal or external disk you could put the Dropbox folder there . You may encounter problems if Dropbox occasionally ca n't access the detached volume holding its folder , however . See <URL> : Your Dropbox folder must be available when your computer boots and before the Dropbox desktop application starts . Some USB drives , for example , take some time to mount before your computer recognizes them . The Dropbox desktop application could start before such a drive is ready and get confused . You will receive an error and Dropbox will give you the opportunity to relink your Dropbox account or exit if it is unable to find your Dropbox folder .
Lion does not offer any customizations during the installation process . Thus a reinstallation is about as smooth and as linear as possible . You restart your Mac holding the OPTION key when you hear the tone . You will then be greeted with various partitions you can use instead of the main Lion partition . Should you wish to simply reinstall Lion , you would select the Recovery HD partition . Once loaded , you just need to follow the prompts and install it over your current Lion installation . The new installation will replace all the core system files , but leave your user profile and data complete untouched . Your music , documents , even passwords and bookmarks , and applications will not touched ; none of your personal information will be deleted ( nor will it backup your old system , as was common in older OS X versions ) . It is a seamless process that simply rolls Lion back to the default installation build . There will be nothing lost and no disk spaced wasted on old system files . <URL> . Note : It was the case that older builds of OS X allowed various types of reinstallations ( like Archive and Install or a complete erase ) , but these have been omitted in Lion , greatly simplifying the process .
When I posted , I suspected that this was specifically related to the Yosemite update , as I 'd seen a few hits in Google with similar things ( but no fixes ) , especially since I had already restored the meta-backup meant to address exactly the issue discussed in the older Q 's of generic network disk corruption . After reading the <URL> post referenced by the older Q , I learn that this message is produced by a verification ( fsck ) that 's run once a month . This means that whatever anomaly it found was not something that occurred in the previous backup , but could have occurred any time in the last month ! Now , I think the correlation with this " happening " right after the Yosemite upgrade may be that the last-check-date gets lost or it intentionally performs a check right away after installing . So , any problem that occurred in the last few weeks suddenly is brought to your attention . If this is checked on purpose , I think it would be better to check before installing the update , to give people a chance to get a working backup of their system before the update . I rolled back the NAS volume another week , and all was well . Just let it finish " finding " and then checking the disk .
Xcode actually has SVN bundled in its . app directory . Its available at ( If you put Xcode.app in your Applications folder ) . You can add this path to your PATH , then access directly again . If you need other Xcode command line tools ( like gcc without installing Xcode ) , you can actually install them without installing Xcode first by going to <URL> , and download and install the Xcode Command Line Tools .
end question
start question
Copy photos off iPhone without iPhoto ?
Use Image Capture . You 'll find it in your Applications folder . It 's surprisingly robust , and it 's made by Apple .
It does not appear that there is a way to see ALL photo locations on a map at one time , aside from a small Info window . Here 's what you need to do : For the small info window that shows all locations : 1 . Go to the Albums tab in Photos 2 . Right-click on " All Photos " - > Get info 3 . Note the small window has a map included which you can zoom in/out of For maps that vary by date : Go to View menu - > Metadata - > Location Go to the Photos tab and zoom all the way out to Years Note that there are locations next to the year . Click on the location name
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
iPhoto Library & #x 2192 ; Right-Click & #x 2192 ; Show Package Contents You have to search for your pictures . The order is not logical - i.e. sorted by events . It 's easier to choose the following options if you send an email : In iPhoto go to Share & #x 2192 ; Email or ... ... export your pictures so that you can attach them manually File & #x 2192 ; Export Why is the iPhoto Library stored in a package ? The reason is actually quite simple : People break things . When you accidentally mess around with the pictures by unintentionally moving them - you break the library . Photo Booth has its own package for the same reason . However , if you want to have control over the hierarchy of your picture folders in Finder , you should not import pictures into iPhoto . The setting is located at iPhoto Preferences & #x 2192 ; Advanced & #x 2192 ; Importing .
Tap on the photo bubble in the message list . Tap to bring up the photo controls . Press the Share button , and select Save Image . This works in both iOS 6 and iOS 7 .
According to this <URL> , the problem is n't just the size . It turns out , as well as a smaller size , the Nano SIM is reportedly 15 % thinner than the Micro SIM cards . So even if users cut the Micro SIM to Nano SIm size with a knife or nano SIM cutter tool , the Sim card would still be too thick to put in the iPhone 5 .
I 'm not an expert on jail breaking , but AFAIK , that limitation is baked into iTunes - it does n't really care if your phone is jailbroken , at least for the purposes of your question - it just talks with the music app ( or more specifically , the database behind it ) . That said , there is software out there that can restore your iTunes library from an iPod or iPhone . <URL> works on OS X , there 's also <URL> . <URL> seems to be the goto option for Windows . You 'll have to use one of those programs to get your library back on your new computer , then re-sync your iPhone from your new library .
Assuming you are using iTunes for syncing your phone , take a look at this article : <URL> It describes how you can sync photos from your PC to your iPhone . So , if ( for example ) you keep a folder on your PC called Favorite Photos , and have that folder selected to sync to your phone , it will always copy those photos to your phone , even after you remove all the pictures during an upload .
Synced Photos deleting must be done through iTunes . To do so just : In iTunes select the device icon in the Devices List on the left . Click the Photos tab in the resulting window . Choose Sync photos from , being iPhoto or Aperture on a Mac and Photoshop Album or Photoshop Elements on a Windows PC . Choose Select Albums and deselect the albums or collections you want to delete . Click Apply .
a ) figure out how much space Photostream is occupying on the device Go to settings General - > Usage wait until the top is done and then click on Photos and Camera The next page under Photo and Camera has the space used for Camera Roll , Photo Library , and the Photo Stream . b ) reduce space . After taking photos you can edit and crop , delete the ones that you do not want . It saves the last 1000 photos for 30 days so if you take a lot of photos , copy them when you can . Photo stream is there for you to easily sync your photos from one device to all . After you have the photo , copy it to your mac and remove them from your photo stream . After 30 days or over 1000 photos you might start to lose photos .
If you start draging arround tracks or albums there should open at the right a bar within your iPhone/iPad/iPod . Drag the track/album on it .
Depending on what you are trying to do with the link , it may be sufficient to drag it . If you click and drag a link in Safari , you can drop it in many places and get the desired functionality . For example , if you drop it in a text editor , it will drop the link URL ( for plain text ) or a formatted link using the title from the page . If you drop it on your desktop , you will get a webloc file . If you drop it on the Safari URL bar or tab , that tab will load the link . If you really need to copy the link , one possibility is to use spotlight as a easy-access text field . Start dragging the link , hit Command + space ( or whatever you have it set to ) to pop up spotlight , drop it in the search field , and copy .
If you go to Settings > General > Accessibility > AssistiveTouch and flip the switch to " on , " you will find a black square with a white dot in the middle . When you tap the white circle for AssistiveTouch , tap " Device , " then LONG PRESS on the " Lock Screen " option . You should be set !
Once you are certain you are happy with Photos , &amp; you are certain the Library has migrated successfully , you can delete the old iPhoto app &amp; iPhoto Library if you wish . The Library , as you mentioned , is ' virtual ' as both are hard linked to the same files . Deleting either Library will not delete the pictures , only deleting both Libraries will do that . The apparent size on disk is incorrect [ or rather , somewhat misleading ] , as each Library will claim to be approximately the same size , yet they refer to the same files . Also see - <URL>
Unlike your iOS device ( s ) that have a smaller more finite amount of memory , your desktop/notebook systems are more than capable of storing the photos , as they 're found in your Photo Stream , they 're also automatically imported to your iPhoto Library ( <URL> ) : But since your Mac has more storage than your iOS device , it automatically imports every picture from your Photo Stream into your photo library so you can edit , delete , and share the ones you want . Take note , however , that there is a difference between your Photo Stream collection and your iPhoto Library . Attempting to interact with any photo being viewed while Photo Stream is selected will prompt you to view the copy in your Library .
Photos does not actually move the files or duplicate them when importing from an existing iPhoto or Aperture library . It simply creates <URL> to the files in their original location from the new Photos library . See how <URL> on Apple 's site . More on hard links from <URL> : A hard link is simply a reference to some data on disk . Think of a file as a combination of a name and a pointer to some data . Deleting a file really means deleting the name portion of that duo . When there are no more names pointing to a particular piece of data disk , then that disk space can be reused . " You can delete your Aperture library without any problems , however you will no longer be able to use Aperture ( unless you set up a new library ) . Any changes made in your existing Aperture library will not appear in Photos , and vice-versa . Basically the actual image exists somewhere on the disk , and there are two pointers to the image ( one from the old library and one from the new library ) . So long as at least one of those pointers exists , the data is kept . But when the last pointer is removed ( i.e. the old iPhoto library itself is removed , then the image is removed from the Photos library ) , the data is also removed .
Open the old library directly by holding down the [ option ] key while starting iPhoto . iPhoto will then allow you to browse to the library location ( use the " Other Library " button ) and should update it automatically to iPhoto '11 format . You may want to back it up first Close iPhoto and restart holding [ option ] once again , make sure the active library is your current ( new ) one . Try reimporting the old library now . It might still be greyed out in the file picker but double click it anyway , it should import .
In contrast to Lizzan , I suggest you do it with iPhoto . So the answer is yes , you can do it with iPhoto . The reason why I suggest it is because iPhoto never destroys your image ! It keeps the original image as it is and saves your changes to a separate file . You can always restore your original image . I do n't know the OS you 're using but prior to ( I think ) Lion there is no Version feature so returning to your original image is impossible . So here 's how you do it : <URL> You could crop the region you like and then save it as a new image . Then go back to your original and take the next region ...
If you want it right now , why not plug the phone into the Mac &amp; use Image Capture , in the Applications folder - which is the importer ' behind ' Photos.app . You can also set it to auto-launch any capable app , including itself , when a device is connected [ or do nothing ] &amp; set exactly where your imports should be saved . You can also dictate whether it should auto-delete from the device afterwards , or alternatively you can manually delete any selected pictures . <URL>
No . iPhoto does not allow you to dictate the internal storage scheme . However , the export function does have an option to export the original file , so you can avoid the re sampling and/or format conversion if that is enough to stick with what you have . Additionally , Aperture and iPhoto can use the same storage , so you could get aperture and do the following ; convert the storage of any photos you want to folders and then save the library . continue to use iPhoto for convenient tasks and iPhoto will work with the aperture store locations . do all imports in aperture when you want the originals stored in specific folders . You can use Lightroom , PhotoMechanic or Aperture which all allow whatever folder based storage of photos you prefer .
end question
start question
Is it possible to install Mac os x in virtual machine on a macbook pro ?
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
Would the Windows Latin American layout mentioned in this article meet your needs ? <URL>
No , because of completely different executable-architectures . Only if you 're willing to recompile them for OSX and they 're Darwin based .
Yes its possible . The limitations that need to be over came are three fold . There are two things that prevent 10.8 from installing on a MacPro 1,1 . The first is the lack of EFI64 . Mountain Lion as has no support for 32bit kernel and extensions so it will not boot . This is true of many early Intel macs . The other thing is that checks are made by the installer ; against a supported machines list . If your mac is n't on the list , it refuses to install . It 's important to note that an upgraded graphics card is virtually essential . The stock 7300 GT is n't supported and will cause Kernel Pannic . I do n't think the X1900-xt is either , my 8800GT did odd things on DP1 but may be OK on newer builds . Ideally Id try and source a HD5770 or other newer card . Solutions : New compatible graphics card will need to be obtained . The first issue can be dealt with by using the Chameleon bootloader . Chameleon will emulate EFI64 and therefore load 10.8 . Customization of the 10.8 Installer by adding your machine kind back onto the list of supported machines . Sources : <URL> <URL>
If I remember correctly , you should be able to install Ubuntu into Boot Camp , and then virtualize it using Parallels Desktop . Works great with Windows ; most likely with Ubuntu as well .
You need to extend the windows disk size from a running windows . Here is how you do it : <URL> Now that you have extended the VMware image size , you need to start at # 6 in the link . EDIT : I do n't want to write a new answer , and the comment text-box is n't large enough - so here is a more less re-write of the link : 1 ) extend the VMware image size . 2 ) attach the HD image to an existing virtual disk of the same OS as the resized image ( Virtual Machine Libary - > [ select the VM to use ] - > Settings - > Hard Disks - > [ click + ] - > [ select the new HD in left menu ] - > File name - > Choose existing disk ... - > [ navigate to the resized image , and select the . vmdk ] - > [ choose " Share this virtual disk ... " ] - > Open - > Apply ) - if you will go the safe way , you 'll choose " Make a separate copy af the virtual disk " instead of the " Share this virtual disk ... " 3 ) Start the virtual machine that you just attached the new HD to . 4 ) Now because you are using Windows 7 , you need to go to " Start - > Computer Management - > Disk Manager " and right-click on the partition you need to extend , and select " Extend Volume " . 5 ) power off ( shutdown VM ) - and remove the HD attached in # 2 - do n't delete it ... ! 6 ) if you in # 2 choose to make a copy of the . vmdk , then you need to replace it manually in the VMware image file ( package ) - right click on the VMware image ( . vmwarevm ) - > Show Package Contents . 7 ) Power on the virtual machine from # 1 , and verify the disk size change .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Use , where is the name of the application you want brought to the front . If you already have a statement block for the target application you can use by itself within the statement block . Examples : Or : Also , if the target app is being opened from within a shell script , whether executed manually in Terminal or within AppleScript e.g. you can add an AppleScript command within the shell script using as in the following : Syntax : Example : Note : In Terminal , type and press enter , to display the BSD General Commands Manual entry for . From the AppleScript Language Guide : <URL> Brings an application to the front , launching it if necessary . As a good reference , have a look at <URL> and the following document is handy to have on your system , <URL> .
OK , this might be somewhat opinion-based , however ... Possible , yes . Worth it , no . Possible There are tools &amp; online guides far too long to repro or précis here on how to achieve it . It requires hacking the firmware &amp; needs re-hacking at each update - These guides from MacRumors are as good as they get , one for <URL> &amp; another for <URL> . Worth it ? The 1,1 &amp; 2,1 are really end-of-life &amp; now very slow compared to a ' modern ' machine . I really guess it depends on your budget , but you can get an absolute top-flight 5,1 [ or the smart money goes on a 4,1 with the Apple upgrade kit ] with two 6-core hyperthreading Xeons @ 3.46 GHz &amp; 64GB RAM for under # 1800 in the UK . Your existing drives will just carry over [ though idk about the OS itself , mine did from a 3,1 to 5,1 ] . The Geekbench scores on those are about 32k , that 's slightly under the current top model ' trash-can ' at 33k . I just checked the score for the 2.66 Mac Pro , 6k . I took the latter path , even though I was only moving up from a 3,1 - which is now in the hands of my partner &amp; very happily running El Capitan . I wanted a speed boost &amp; the upgraded 4,1 was right on the money for me .
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
is an application that will show you hardware information to determine which bus the CD drive is connected . Once you know your hardware specifications , you can shop better . Check <URL> and <URL> for housings that work physically with SATA connectors . Also check <URL> on the issues you might face moving to an SSD / HD combination .
Any computer that shipped with Lion or Mountain Lion has <URL> , which is a very limited installer that downloads the full OS from Apple and installs it . To get into the Recovery mode , just boot while holding down commandR , and it will prompt you for the rest . However you can also do a direct clone of your existing disk to your SSD , which will avoid having to download the installer ( it 's about 4 GB ) or reinstall all your programs and data . You 'll need an external enclosure to put one of the drives in . You can do this with the built-in <URL> , or a tool like <URL> ( the free version of which suffices for this task ) .
Here is a quick summary of running OS X on non apple hardware with ( and also without ) support from virtualization such as VMware . Possible - yes Supported , licensed , intended - no Legal - you 'll need a lawyer to help with that in your specific location . So , as long as the hardware was Mac you would be probably licensed for Lion and later OS X to run visually no matter what intermediary OS you used as part of the virtualization chain . The how is n't going to be easy since you 'll have to defeat either VMWare 's checks to prevent any Windows person from running OS X or OS X 's checks to ensure it 's running on Mac hardware .
None that I know of ( as advertised by Apple , I mean ) . I found this on my bookmarks : <URL> , which might give you a better idea of what to do before and after installing applications . There are a few apps that take care of this too like : <URL> which tries to find the documents and settings the application uses ( though it 's debatable how efficient/reliable this apps or any app of this nature really are )
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
No , not directly . The Mac Pro uses full-sized desktop DIMM modules , whereas the Macbook pro uses laptop-sized SO-DIMM modules . These can not be directly swapped without a passive adapter , which I honestly would n't think makes much sense to bother with given how <URL> .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
end question
start question
How to check how much RAM a program uses ?
If you go to the Utility folder on your Mac , open the Activity Moniitor . Then go to the Memory tab . There you will see who is using how much . There is also a Disk Tab , where you can also see who is using how much on active basis ( when programs are running ) . You wont see the passive usage ( how much information is stored ) in that window . In this example the application Firefox Using Memory : Using Disk space : How much space is a Application occupying on the disk , is answered by looking in your Finder - Applications then under the - Size coulomb . Again in my example , the Firefox occupies 147 MB of permanent disk space , which is not the same as the information above which was for the active situation . Back to your original problem - slow computer : In the Activity Monitor look now in the CPU tab to see who is most active there .
You can use terminal to read the File System Personality : Look for the fields named below : If the file system is case sensitive , you will see Case-sensitive Journaled HFS in the first pasted line and Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled ) in the third . Disk Utility will also show you this from the info window for any File System it can see .
The answer to the general question is yes - Macs have never required paired RAM although many machines get a 5 to 15 % speed boost if you pair the RAM . In some integrated graphics applications on the 2007/2008 era designs , this could be larger a speedup for some graphics operations . As long as your Mac does n't exceed the total RAM the CPU/logic board wants to handle , you can split up the banks in any way you choose . For your specific models , I would look at a reputable RAM seller like <URL> to see if people have been reliably making more RAM work in your specific models . Often Apple will say the maximum RAM is 4 GB but 8 will work well if you have top of the line chips with the correct timing . Also - be aware that mixing speeds of RAM ( 1066 vs 1333 ) can be problematic or cause the system to fail to start up . Normally , permanent damage is not done to the memory or the computers when you place the wrong RAM in , but it can lead to aggravating crashes , video glitches and slowness .
Flash controllers generally degrade gracefully , so once a block has failed , it no longer is usable , so you would expect a slow , gradual shrinking of the usable space over time . Once the majority of the blocks start reaching the limit on write cycles ( you need to store different data - not just the same bits to make real change on most flash controllers ) then this reduction of space increases more linearly with time / write cycles . So - it will be quick to not store the entire file , but a much longer time until you ca n't write to 50 % of the drive .
I have the same machine ( MacBookPro8 ,2 ) . A quick web search seems to indicate that my 2.2 GHz model has an <URL> . According to <URL> , the supported memory types are actually DDR3-1066 / 1333/1600 . ( Incidentally , the memory limit is also 32 GB , but this may require more than two slots ; I 'm not sure . ) Technically , this CPU does n't have a traditional " front side bus " , which is a connection between the CPU and an external memory controller . Its memory controller is integrated with the CPU , meaning that the supported RAM configuration is n't further subject to the specifications of an external memory controller . So , it does seem like this system plausibly supports 1600 MHz RAM , after all ! I 'll be sure to keep that in mind when I upgrade to 16 GB . :) Interestingly , when I open the same dialog in " About This Mac " , my system reports that it supports 1333 MHz memory . It seems like it might just report the current memory speed .
You can bring back those details at the bottom of the screen by clicking Show Status Bar in the View menu , or pressing ⌘ / .
A note to those who find this QA : <URL> here from Apple can be helpful . This morning when my battery was draining out , I tried the above tips ( reproduced below ) , and it worked . If you have an Exchange email account you probably have some stale sync threads . Try this : Go to Settings/Mail , contacts , calendar . Tap the name of the account . Turn off the 3 switches . Back out to the main settings page . Now launch mail , then contacts , then calendar to kill the pending connections . Reboot the phone , go back to Settings , and turn the 3 switches back on . This will probably fix it .
According to the <URL> on FlatpanelsHD.com , it will use 0.8 watts when in standby ( not sleep ) , and 1.9 watts when in use . To use their description , this is " ridiculously low . " Since all the device needs to do is wait for Bonjour , AirPlay , or IR signals -- and the upper number matches up with <URL> -- I 'd say this is believable . Fun perspective fact from the Apple report : It takes 30 Apple TVs , all streaming HD video , to use the same amount of power as a common 60W light bulb . You can quickly put the Apple TV to sleep by holding the play/pause button on the home screen . The cursor should be over one of the apps , not a content preview , and last I tested , this did n't work with the play/pause button of the Remote app .
Apps are submitted as . ipa files which is really just a zipped container of a . app file . In fact , you can simply unzip a . ipa file to see its true size . Apps in the App Store are listed by their compressed size , and will need to be uncompressed after installing . As of iOS 6 , updates to apps only include files that have been changed . As of iOS 7 , updates to apps only include changes to changed files . So , I guess to answer the question directly , for any given app you would need : Free space to store the compressed app update file , free space to store the uncompressed app update file , and space currently being used by the app and all its data/caches . <URL>
The original Apple charger has an output limited to 2.1 A at 5.1 V. I occasionally charge my iPad 2 Wifi with the old charger of my passed Palm Pre . It provides an amperage of 1 A at standard 5 V USB voltage . I do n't know if you can go even lower than 1 A , but the standard USB amperage of .5 A is not enough to charge it . It should n't be a problem to get a car charger that is capable of handling 1 A , more is better . Make sure you buy one , that is capable of charging an iPhone as Apple devices tend to observe the USB standards and try to communicate with the charger . Some dumb China elcheapo chargers may not have USB logic inside and your iDevices could refuse to charge .
<URL> ( full disclosure : I worked on the app at <URL> ) shows the raw pressure values from the iPhone 6 or 6 Plus 's barometer sensor . It also shows sea-level adjusted pressure to compare to weather stations around the world ( using your GPS altitude ) , and shows elevation changes based on the barometer .
If you are not afraid of using , you can run to get the size of each application .
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
See <URL> for the solution to this problem : I headed over to the downloads page for Apple Developers to get the previous version of Xcode ( which is 4.4.1 ) . Downloaded the and mounted it . Right-clicked the to " Show Package Contents . " I quickly found what I was looking for in and copied to the same location in my . The full blog post has some more info .
Personally I go with OWC . They are more famous for all Mac related upgrades . Here is the memory upgrade link <URL> Main advantage is you can choose RAM based on your model / make of the year etc. . .
You will need two " 16GB Kits " to get the full 32GB . I have personally done this in my iMac 27 " The memory that I recommend is <URL> I recommend Crucial because they are very reliable and they have a <URL> . There are brands that are cheaper , but ( IMO ) it 's simply not worth the cost savings of giving up a lifetime warranty .
The 6th generation iPod touch has 1GB of RAM and runs at 1.10 GHz according to <URL> .
Go to system preferences/keyboard/text / spelling and click on the window and go to the Setup item . Then check the boxes for only the two languages you want and set it to Automatic . Also set the dictionary to Automatic in Edit > Spelling and Grammar > Show Spelling and Grammar . I suspect this works better for separate sentences or paragraphs in different languages than for different languages in one sentence .
The version is linked to your OS level , you are using an older version of Preview because you are using an older OS . The latest version is available as part of the latest OS . Luckily , this update is now free , so long as your machine is compatible - looks for OS X Mavericks in the App Store
One solution is to install <URL> and change the file association for text files . Another solution is to disable Windows application integration for that virtual machine . To do that open the virtual machine , go to the Virtual Machine menu and select Settings ... Change the settings for Default Applications . You likely want to uncheck Run Windows applications from you Mac 's Applications folder
end question
start question
In itunes , how do I view entire album of currently playing song ?
If you normally sort your overall library by album , you can right click on the currently playing song in a playlist and select Show In Playlist - > Music . This will take you directly to that song in your music library .
Just click on the AE icon and it will display a list of connected wireless clients .
To enable the Finder to show all files ( including " hidden " ones ) , you can type the following command in at the command prompt in Terminal : The first part sets a hidden preference so the finder shows all files ; the second part restarts the Finder so these preferences take effect ( killall on its own tells a program to quit ; the - HUP flag asks the program to restart ) . If you want to reverse this so that the Finder now hides the files it normally hides , type this in Terminal : If you are more comfortable using the GUI , there is a <URL> that lets you toggle this setting any many more , but it involves installing third-party software on your system . That said , your actual problem of disk space not being freed up when you " delete " files is actually by design . To permanently delete a file , you need to empty the Trash -- Mac OS X does n't delete files directly in the Finder ; it first moves them to a temporary storage on their original volume , and then when you Empty Trash ... in Finder , the files get deleted . Some users are reporting that is not working on their Mountain Lion systems but ( note the lower case ) is working . On my system running Mountain Lion , I am finding that the command works as written , but if it does n't for you , try lower-casing the F in Finder in defaults write statement .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
Have you upgraded to Lion ? As per <URL> it seems the extra visualizers require 32-bit mode : Right click on iTunes.app in your Applications folder and click " Get Info " . In the window that appears , click " Open in 32-bit mode " at the bottom of the " General " pane . This is a work-around , not a fix , and I have filed a bug report with Apple .
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
You can set up multiple different iCloud accounts in the " Mail , Contacts , and Calendars " preference panel , and also on your iPhone and iPads . I have accomplished a shared address book with my partner by each of us having a primary iCloud account ( me@us.com, her@us.com ) - and then a shared iCould account us@us.com . One annoying downside is that the Lion Address Book app labels both address books as " iCloud " making it a bit hard to distinguish what contacts are where . We solve this by having different contact lists in each address book , so they are distinct . It seems with just a little bit of work Apple could make this MUCH better , but this is the best solution I have seen so far .
While in Edit mode , hold down the Control and M keys . This will show you the original version of your photo , with no edits applied . If you want to temporarily undo the effect of the color adjustments but keep the cropping and rotation the same , hold down M by itself . Unlike Aperture : It does n't work in " view mode " ; you have to be in edit mode . ( To get into edit mode via the keyboard , press Return . ) It 's a hold , not a toggle , so you only see the original photo for as long as you have the keys held down .
This is actually insanely simple : Open iTunes and go into your music library . Click on a song to ensure focus is inside the song list , press ⌘ a to select all your songs , then press ⌘ c to copy them . Open the text editor of your choice , anything should do , then ⌘ v paste your songs ! Ét Voíla , all your songs listed in plain text .
I would select all the music you want converted , and make a playlist out of them . Next convert the files . Then select all the songs in your new playlist and delete them from your library by pressing Option Delete ( OS X ) or Shift Delete ( Windows ) . Additionally , I hope you are n't converting lossy music to MP3 , as that would produce lesser quality files for no benefit .
One option would be to save this script to in AppleScript Editor and give it a shortcut with <URL> . Without the try block there would be an error dialog if for example the selection was empty .
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
timothymh 's solution is definitely the simplest if you just need to know occasionally , and is built-in , but if you need something more advanced ( e.g. monitoring ) , then the following may be useful : <URL> ( free ) , though I 'd recommend the <URL> if you 're on a recent version of OS X <URL> ( free ) <URL> ( about $ 5 ) From the screenshots , inSSIDer actively displays which network you 're currently connected to , but otherwise all three show lots of details of all networks your card can pick up , including channels , signal strength and BSSIDs . If your aim is to test the coverage of wifi access points , you will probably find more benefit from something like <URL> ( free ) . This lets you map the signal strength as a ' heat map ' in your home/office/etc , effectively letting you see where each/any access point is available from , where you will/won ' t get access , and how strong the signal will be . Edit : To monitor AP switching , using the terminal , it is possible to watch the system logs : Or simply use the console : Applications > Utilities > Console . In the filter write and you will see when your computer switches across BSSIDs .
It appears to be the case that Apple will replace the top case assembly if you want to replace your battery . As first reported by Treehugger , which received a copy of an Apple internal service document for the " Mid-2012 " 15-Inch Retina Display MacBook Pro , Apple informs its own service personnel that " batteries must be replaced with the top case assembly " and that " the battery alone is not a replaceable part . " EveryMac.com also has been provided with copies of the internal service documents for subsequent 15-Inch Retina Display MacBook Pro models and although there are internal differences , the battery design effectively is the same . Additionally , Apple warns its own technicians that " batteries should not be separated from the top case assembly for any reason , " as attempting to do so could puncture the battery and lead to fire or injury . Do not attempt to pry the battery apart from the top case . Source : <URL> According to <URL> , it will cost local repair shops around $ 500 to source the top case assembly to replace the battery .
How to see iTunes U courses without iTunes iTunes U courses are RSS feeds , so you will need : An RSS reader , either web browser-based , like <URL> ( * ) or <URL> , or standalone , like <URL> . Make sure that in either case it can display H. 264/MPEG -4 videos . ( * ) Google Reader will not be available <URL> . The feed URL , which for the iOS programming course <URL> is : <URL> For example , after subscribing with Google Reader you 'll see a list with links to the course videos : How to obtain the feed URL Neither Standford University nor <URL> publish the feed URL , so you will need iTunes to get it : Open iTunes and look for " Stanford coding together " Select the course and subscribe : Navigate to iTunes U , right click the course and select Copy iTunes U URL :
fn + return works while navigating with the up and down keys . Edit the song , then press return again to submit changes . For the other columns just press tab to reach the desired column .
In my experience , the cover photo is simply the first photo in the album . When you 're within an album , hit the button in the upper-right corner to manipulate the photos ; then tap and hold a photo until it " inflates , " at which point you can drag it to move it around . You 'll just have to be happy with your album cover being the first photo in the album . ( Edited to clarify the tap-and-hold gesture . )
I do n't believe there is a way to do it through the Health app , but 3rd party apps do have the ability to show this . I use Pedometer + + from the App Store ( no affiliation , free app with ads ) . Here is a screenshot of my steps .
This is for sure an iPad Air 2 , correct ? It should have TouchID ( a fingerprint sensor ) on the front . To verify the model , go to the settings app , General , About : Model MH2P2LL/A is an iPad Air 2 Other ways to identify your iPad are at <URL>
Remove rating for one song The app <URL> allows to edit a song 's info manually . I 've successfully tried version 0.14 in Lion . Remove ( suppress ) ratings for all songs You can choose to not show explicit labels for all songs in the parental controls of iTunes : iTunes Preferences - > Parental - > Show content ratings in library
end question
start question
Can I manually re-calibrate the iPhone 4 compass ?
Update : You do n't need to wait to be prompted to do the " figure eight thing " . You can do it any time to recalibrate the compass . The compass is really sensitive to outside influences . For example it is useless in my girlfriends BMW . It is consistently off by 135 degrees and doing the figure 8 does n't make any difference . It 's more of a toy than something you would want to depend on .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
This summer I took some photos out of cell range and they were all geotagged so it 's definitely possible to use GPS out of cell range , but some apps ( like the Maps app ) use a data connection to get map tiles and routing data , so those features would n't work if you 're not in range of either cellular data or wifi .
Yes ; The Geo tags are written into the images via the native Location Services within the phone , primarily via the GPS chip the phone contains . Since the information written is merely latitude/longitude , you do not need to have a data connection in order for that information to be determined and added . The need for a data connection in tandem with photos is the ability to place them on a map , when using iPhoto for example .
<URL> should allow you to copy the music from any iOS device ( jailbroken or not ) onto a Windows or Mac computer . See <URL> support article for more relevant information .
From Wikipedia : <URL> Although they are not yet at the power levels to replace xenon flash devices in still cameras , LEDs ( specifically , high current flash LEDs ) have recently been used as flash sources in camera phones . LEDs are expected to approach the power levels of xenon in the near future and may replace built-in xenon flashes in still cameras . The major advantages of LEDs over xenon include low voltage operation , higher efficiency and extreme miniaturization . So , now that we know that we have a LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) in there , let 's see how much should that live ( according the the super-experts @ wikipedia ) : <URL> ( read all that for more info ) Short answer : " Typical lifetimes quoted are 25,000 to 100,000 hours but heat and current settings can extend or shorten this time significantly . " Now do you think your iPhone will last 25,000 hours ( worst case scenario for the LED ) ? That 's a little bit less than three years . It 's certainly possible for an iPhone to last much more than that ( I still use a 1s-gen iPhone ) , however , I highly doubt that you 're going to use it with the flash ON , for three years , non-stop . :)
My girlfriend dropped her iPhone 4 in a glass of coke ( it submerged completely ) . Afterwards , she experienced the same symptoms as you . To fix it , she put the phone in a bowl of rice , and took a blow dryer to it once or twice a day . I believe she also got some electrical contact cleaner and cleaned the connection on the bottom that you plug the USB cable into . It took about a week , but the phone worked perfectly afterwards ( and has been working perfectly ever since ) .
You can do this by sharing your MacBook Pro 's internet connection - typically called an ad-hoc network . You will need to connect your USB aircard , and then open System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing . ( <URL> ) Select USB from the drop down menu next to " Share your connection from : " . Then select the " Wifi " from the checkboxes below . Check the Internet Sharing option to the left , then join it with your iPhone . <URL> that you may find helpful in setting up an ad-hoc network . While you are using USB the steps <URL> should be very similar to your situation .
If you have a jail broken iPhone you can ssh into it and install tcpdump . Tcpdump is a command line program that wireshark is indirectly built off of .
Create a black image in your favorite image editor ( even Paint will do if you 're on Windows ) , save it as a jpeg , and e-mail or sync it to the phone . Then set that image as the background . Since you 're making it all black , I doubt the resolution is going to matter much , but you can always use 960 x 640 to use the iPhone 4 's standard resolution . Edit to add a black image that works :
iPhone 4 supports four GSM frequencies ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) . Phones like these are usually referred to as " quad-band " or " world-phones " , because of these frequencies , most carriers around the world will support one or more of them . Once unlocked , you should be able to use it pretty much anywhere that has a GSM network . You wo n't be able to use it on carriers that use CDMA networks as that 's a different type of wireless radio entirely . CDMA does n't use SIM cards , so that 's an easy way to tell them apart . One other thing you should keep in mind is that iPhone 4 uses a micro-SIM . If your European provider does n't provide micro-SIMs , you 'll need to take a regular sized SIM and cut it to size . Due to the popularity of the iPhone outside the US , even in countries where it 's sold only on the gray market , it 's pretty easy to find small cellphone vendors that can do this for you .
I 'm not following why everyone else is saying this ca n't be done . I have people facetime me all the time on my phone , by using my AppleID email address . I also contact others this same way , and it works just fine . In fact it has the added bonus of ringing ALL iDevices linked to that address . So when someone facetimes my AppleID , it rings on my iPhone , Mac , and iPad all at the same time , allowing me to answer it wherever I am at that moment . I did n't do anything special to set this up ... just went into FaceTime under Settings , and added the email address ( es ) I wanted people to be able to reach me on . Works fine . Maybe this is specifically a problem on the iPhone 4 as opposed to the 4s which is what I have ?
Mail keeps a sqlite database of the index . To rebuild it , delete the index and restart Mail .
The only way I know how to do it is in iCal ( providing you have a Mac ) . Ctrl + click on the Calendar along the left side of the screen >> Get Info >> Click the color selector on the right to change the color . Here 's a screenshot
The final iOS rev for iPhone 3G is 4.2.1 , and you could always save a backup before upgrading and restor to the 3.X version if 4.2.1 was too much of a hog . Hope this helps ! Edit : <URL>
Yes . Most cases the developer will leave the app on the store , but just remove it from being sellable to new owners . That allows them to submit bug fixes for existing customers , not force them to upgrade , allow them to re-download things - but not have new buyers buying the wrong version ( not the latest ) . Of course , the developer or Apple can also remove the app entirely - but this is far less common . What is common is when the developer keeps the same name as far as the store is concerned . In this case , you 'll want to have a backup that you control to re-install no matter what Apple or the developer chooses .
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
To confirm that my solution was to use an excellent 3rd party tool , although costly ... <URL> It managed to extract the data from my iPhone 4 . Because the iPhone was trying to update , I forced it into DFU mode which this application uses to get the data . My next step is to do a restore , which I do n't mind doing now ! :D
iTunes uses iTunesHelper.app to detect if an iPhone has been plugged in . This app is usually started as a login item . Therefore you could check if iTunesHelper.app ist listed here : Preferences - > Users - > Login Items . If it 's not listed you can drag it back as described here : <URL> .
Update : You do n't need to wait to be prompted to do the " figure eight thing " . You can do it any time to recalibrate the compass . The compass is really sensitive to outside influences . For example it is useless in my girlfriends BMW . It is consistently off by 135 degrees and doing the figure 8 does n't make any difference . It 's more of a toy than something you would want to depend on .
end question
start question
How to access other users ' files via Terminal in OS X ?
As stated by patrix : the personal files of other user 's on the same machine are generally stored in the folder for each user . The permissions on these folders are usually set such that they are private to the individual who owns the files . This means you need to use <URL> to elevate your own access levels in order to see their files . If you are truly an admin , using is something that 's ok , but do so with caution . If you are not an admin then you should n't have the proper privileges to do any of this and your repeated attempts to use are logged in the system access log . To simply list files in another user 's home directory ( let 's call them ) you do : The prefix is POSIX shorthand for " home directory of ... " . To browse freely , you can become that user with like so : This makes you , logged in as and in 's home directory . You can now move around , files , files , etc. as .
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
Use the command The command is So , after you SSH in as the admin , issue the command : That will set the preferences value for the particular user you are interested in without having to know their password . I personally checked this on OS X 10.11.4 using an account called " testguy " . I was able to SSH into the machine , set the preferences using the command you provided and verify that it was set by issuing the command : The response was ( true )
My terminal colors how to do it download theme from here : <URL> import into Terminal After installing SIMBL and the correct terminalcolors you can import my terminal theme from the Terminal Preferences window . other tweaks Adding this to the file will make color it 's output by default . Adding this will define colors as variables to make a prompt easier to edit . Adding this will give you a multi-line colored prompt . For a list of escape sequences to use in prompts check this <URL>
When you attach a folder to a email in Mail , even thought it looks like an individual folder in the email , both in the composed email and then the sent email , nonetheless the contents of the folder when sent , is zipped into a single . zip archive that is base64 encoded for transport . It is the . zip file that 's received by others and there should not be a problem with them accessing it regardless of Host OS . Looking at the actual . emlx file , here is an excerpt showing the attachment as a . zip file that is actually an " untitled folder " selected to be attached . When I received the file in a different email client it was shown as an attachment not the folder as shown in Mail under OS X . When opened in the other email client it contained the files that were in the " untitled folder " that was attached to the email that was sent .
I do not have Alfred installed however I would think the following method should work . For example , using the Script Editor set to JavaScript the following code returned my login name . So , I 'd assume that if " " is the actual environment variable , then the following might work as well .
Automator You can use OS X 's Automator.app to quickly rename batches of images . The Actions you want are : Get Selected Finder Items Rename Finder Items Using this approach you can rename files , change the case , or append/remove specific parts of the original file name . You can create <URL> using Automator to make the whole process a single drag-and-drop . Alternatively you can <URL> to rename any image dropped into a folder . To learn more about using Automator , see Apple 's <URL> .
Updated at May 2015 , with current solutions . Free solutions <URL> - Successor to MacFUSE <URL> Last updated 2010 , pretty much abandoned in favour of the Paid version , Tuxera , unless you want to build from source . Last version linked from <URL> Paid solutions <URL> <URL> MacFuse is abandonware , and has n't been updated since 2009 .
You can use Workgroup Manager and OS X 's managed preferences ( MCX ) to restrict access to the Restart and Shut Down commands in the Finder : . . then use the Accounts prefpane to show or hide the Restart , Sleep , and Shut Down buttons at the loginwindow :
If you mean the Recovery HD , then it means that you do n't have a Recovery HD that 's able to be booted into . Try booting with ⌘ R . If that fails , use ⌘ ⌥ R for Internet Recovery .
I believe the output is unmodified except for amplification . For specific settings , you might find the Audio MIDI Setup utility useful as it includes per-speaker amplification settings . As I 'm not a big audiophile I ca n't attest to the specific settings you mention but that 's where I would start to test things out .
The settings are stored in : prints . On my installation the last four columns ( , , , and ) are for applications that were added after the dialog was shown and for applications that I added by dropping them to the list in System Preferences . contains a list of applications for which the warning dialog has been shown : I could n't figure out how to actually allow access for assistive devices for an application though . I tried for example running these commands : I also tried restarting to apply the changes and setting the last four columns to .
When you insert a USB drive it automatically gets mounted . You can see the name of the device using the mount command : Making the simplifying assumption that you only have one usb drive mounted at a time and it is always formatted with windows , you can then rename the drive like this : now when you look at the mount output , the name is changed : You may need to adjust the search parameters based on different assumptions , but this is the general idea .
In the Finder 's preferences , there is an option at the bottom of the General pane for " Spring-loaded folders and windows " that seems to control this . You can adjust the delay using the slider there , and also ( as it notes ) press the spacebar when dragging an item to invoke Exposé immediately . It 's not a hidden preference ( in the sense that you need to get at it ) so much as a preference in a somewhat unexpected place . ;)
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
You might want to try the application <URL> . It has a built-in function to convert Mac file &amp; folder names to legal Windows file &amp; folder names : Naturally , somebody will come along later and throw a smattering of regex in a bash script for you to puzzle out , but ABFR does this kind of thing so easily . It can even create a droplet app onto which you can ' drop ' files &amp; folders to be processed . It is a handy tool to have in your toolbox if you are n't a strong programmer , or do n't have the time , or both .
So you can . If you open System Preferences > Sharing , and check both remote management ( to start the vnc server ) and remote login ( to start the ssh server ) ; you should be able to login remotely using vnc over ssh . Note : You must have all needed ports forwarded correctly , and an android client capable of connecting over ssh .
With , upgrading all of your installed applications ( that installed with cask ) is done with a single command : This is an unofficial ( community based ) way to upgrade applications and only has free softwares on its repository ( there is no way to purchase ) . Advantages of this mechanism are : It 's scriptable It separates system applications from user applications ( your installed applications are placed in instead of ) so it 's per user . Installation of packaged installers is in the background so it does n't need user interactions . Uninstallation of applications is programmed by its community so there is no worry about remaining files after uninstallation . It 's possible to have multiple versions of applications systematically because the mechanism uses symbolic links for the latest or selected version of applications . The source of applications is kept in the cache so you can install and uninstall them without additional downloads . Disadvantages of this mechanism are : There is no differential upgrade . It downloads the whole application image ( . dmg ) or package ( . pkg ) and stores in the cache . Installation of applications is relied on symbolic links that may be not ideal ( There are two copies of an application and may be repeated in " Open with " list ) There is also official App Store mechanism ( the default ) for upgrading applications that are installed with itself and it supports differential upgrade and can upgrade all of it 's installed application with a single click ; but unlike Cask it 's not scriptable to run upgrade , installation , etc and does not keep the sources . Another mechanism is in-app upgrade check that occurs when application starts . It is different from App Store upgrade and also supports differential upgrade . I think it 's up to you to choose which mechanism to use for which kind of applications , this comparison may help you . I use the Cask for applications that is not provided in the App Store ( like VLC , OS X FUSE , OwnCloud , Weka , etc. ) and App Store for non-free applications i purchased . In-app upgrades are not suitable for me because it does not keep the source of downloaded data .
If you highlight the file in the finder , press command-i to open the file info dialog . Change the entry " Open with " to " iCal " ( select " other " and browse for iCal if it is not listed ) . Press the button " change all " to make " open in iCal " the default action .
Mac OS 9 has no built-in support for Windows file sharing . There were third-party file sharing applications for Mac OS to allow access to Windows networks , and there were also Windows server tools which could allow Mac access to Windows servers . One tool I remember using was DAVE , from Thursby software . It used to be a Windows networking kit for Mac , but has morphed into something else now . If you found an older version it might work , but I doubt it would be compatible with the latest Windows . I 'd recommend looking for an FTP server for your Windows machine and a FTP client for your Mac .
end question
start question
Is there a PoE ( Power over Ethernet ) kit available for the 802.11 ac Airport Extreme ?
No - the power supply expects 100-240 VAC and lists the current draw as 1.5 A which seems quite high for the heat it puts out , but perhaps with several USB drives connected and max power it gets even half that usage in real life . You certainly can take DC power from POE <URL> , but those all seem to provide 1A at 12 VDC which is a far cry short of the wattage listed for the Airport Extreme . I doubt you 'd find a DC to AC inverter that would generate enough AC to run the Airport though ...
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
I use a dry microfiber cloth on my screen . I found them in a two-pack of washcloth-sized at Dollar General . If you want a cleaning solution , the Apple Store folks , at least in Madison WI , fully endorse iKlean and use it on their display models every night . I ca n't vouch because I have n't used it , but I figure Apple knows Apple well .
Not a complete answer , but this document might help : <URL> To be listed as a backup destination , the AFP server must advertise it with specific features and flags turned on . Airport Extreme storage does n't show up because it 's missing something from that list , but the question is what ? I found a reference to the Extreme 's AFP implementation lacking some caching capabilities ( <URL> ) but I have no idea if that 's true . It is plausible that it does n't have the storage required for the replay cache . It 's also plausible that it does have all these features but Apple chose simply not to enable the Time Machine flag . Note that the newest generation ( the big ones with 802.11 ac ) does now officially support Time Machine , so this does n't seem to be an issue anymore . That 's probably because they 're now almost identical to the current Time Capsule inside .
Well , I bought one and tried . AirPort Utility 5.6.1 complains about incompatible hardware and missing parameters , but apart from that it works :) It 's possible to configure the syslog server .
Wireless is a complicated topic and you need to consult a speciality website like smallnetbuilder.com if you want to understand things like range , performance , and capabilities of different routers . The Apple Extreme/Express are more expensive , require an Apple utility that runs only on iOS/OS X/Windows , and are not the most feature rich . However , they are simple to use if you live in a mostly Apple world and have some unique Apple features that can be useful in that world . For example , it 's dead simple to wirelessly extend an Extreme/Express network and Apple Express routers can be hooked to speakers to use with AirPlay . I just used three Expresses to replace an old 802.11 g network ( it used four old Linksys routers wirelessly extended to get about 50 % coverage ) at a friend 's condo . It 's only a single floor with about 2500sf but the walls are all steel-reenforced concrete so wireless range was extremely limited . It took all of about 10 minutes to install three units and network them with a single SSID and WPA password . I would have preferred wired connections but it was n't a practical option due to the construction . I ca n't see much advantage to the Extreme over the Express with the current models unless you want to use the gIt might have better antennas and thus better performance but I think that 's an edge case . It also may have some additional features so you 'd need to do a feature-by-feature comparison .
DynDNS does support <URL> ( mDNS ) , which provides the ability to do dynamic DNS and much more . They even have <URL> for setting it up with an Airport Device . It will cost you a $ 30/yr standard account , though .
According to Apple ( from the <URL> ) Using Your AirPort Time Capsule Safely The only way to shut off power completely to your AirPort Time Capsule is to disconnect it from the power source . If you want to go above and beyond , you can be sure that all users all logged off , and not performing a backup through the Airport Utility , but this is not necessary ...
First of all , connect the adapter and reboot . In many cases , it will solve the problem . You need to reboot because the adapter is not hot-pluggable . For the same reason , if you remove and re-insert the adapter , it wo n't work until you reboot . If you still have difficulties , I 've found <URL> at Apple Store . Google " <URL> " . Select the <URL> . Install via device manager ( select location where you unzipped driver ) . Note , the PCI ID for this device 14e4 :1682 is not listed in Broadcom 's web page list of supported IDs . However the driver 's . inf does include the requisite matching for the new device ID . Hopefully , you can solve this with a reboot due to it not working as a hot-plug device , and each time you need to boot Windows with the adapter attached for the driver to load .
I do n't believe that the Airport Express is considered a serviceable product . As you have seen from the repair sites it is n't easily opened . A repair from Apple is n't likely to be available or cost effective . It never hurts to ask though -- especially at the Genius Bar where they have some discretion depending on your situation . Without destroying the exterior , you are likely faced with getting a replacement . You could save some money by buying a <URL> from Apple . And perhaps even sell your old one for <URL> in case someone else wants to split it open .
Save in AppleScript Editor and assign a shortcut in <URL> or <URL> :
Both use Lightning cable , so we are good there . Regarding power , the 12W charger is compatible with all iPhones . See product <URL> section of 12W charger . iPhone Models So you should be confident of charging iPhone 6 or 6s with up to 12W charger . The higher the wattage the lesser is the charging time .
No - the power supply expects 100-240 VAC and lists the current draw as 1.5 A which seems quite high for the heat it puts out , but perhaps with several USB drives connected and max power it gets even half that usage in real life . You certainly can take DC power from POE <URL> , but those all seem to provide 1A at 12 VDC which is a far cry short of the wattage listed for the Airport Extreme . I doubt you 'd find a DC to AC inverter that would generate enough AC to run the Airport though ...
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
The iPad is a high power draw device , and Belkin N150 USB Wireless adapter probably is no power slouch either , so it is technically possible for them to be overdrawing an internal USB Bus or Hub in the Mac Pro . The Mac Pro has 5 independent USB Buses as noted in the picture below . Now depending where things are plugged in they show up in different USB Buses , you may want to Open your System Information Application , and try to avoid placing the iPad and the Belkin N150 on the same bus . For Example , on my computer the ZyXel ... and the DataTraveler are plugged into front USB ports and they appear to be sharing the same usb tree . While my external Hub labeled " Generic USB Hub " and my VF0680 , CIRCA102 are all plugged in rear usb ports on the Mac Pro , note how the CRCA102 is on its own Bus .
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
In order to set the TX Power you need an older version of the Airport utility which is available <URL> . Navigate to your base station > Manual Setup > AirPort > Wireless > Wireless Network Options . Once there , choose a transmit power that 's lower than 100 % ( you can choose between 10 % , 25 % , 50 % , and 100 % ) . Remember to Update your configuration when you 're done .
Yes it is . I use it for my firewall needs . A great way to test if it still exists , is to just run it . Open Terminal.app and enter the following command : It should report the following ( rules may vary ) : Additionally , Apple will not remove it as it is actually the backend for the default Application Firewall found in System Preferences , at least not for some time . You can read up more on ipfw in OS X using <URL> ( or simply type in Terminal.app ) . As for pf ( the actual implementation of OS X is ) , it is a much more object orientated program that can control network access translation and packet filter ( while requires external components to handle them ) . It is born from OpenBSD ( as opposed to FreeBSD ) and has been around for quite a while as well . It 's power comes from being able to accomplish more internally , but also optimize long rulesets ( that sometimes bogs down ) . They are both , however , excellent firewalls and can coexist quite happily . <URL> .
Since your iPhone let you sign up for an iCloud account , you have full access to the web services provided by iCloud.com , which include : Contacts Calendars Mail Find My iPhone You are only limited by your computer , but still have access to the web tools . There may be ( unsupported ) ways to get some of these applications on your 10.5 Mac to sync , especially with Mail . Most of iCloud uses standard networking protocols , and therefore older programs may be able to use them . One may want to tread lightly though , since this is unsupported , and may cause issues/corruption in other parts that are supported ( ie , you would n't want to edit your contacts in a way on 10.5 even if you could , since it could break them on your iPhone ) .
end question
start question
Can applications be using mic/camera without permission ?
Unless it 's a hacked system , then no , it will not have access since access is only possible via API 's that require granting access .
~ \ Applications is n't created during the installation of the OS , you have to create it by yourself . Once you create it , it is recognized as an " application folder " and the Finder will show the proper icon for the folder . It has been like this since Tiger , at least . I 'm not aware if Lion creates it automatically as mine was already there when I upgraded to Lion .
The short answer to this is : No . As far as I 'm aware , you ca n't mount your Dropbox account as some sort of remote file share - its synced files are always written to your local disk . That said , you can change the location of the Dropbox folder away from its default of , so if you have a separate internal or external disk you could put the Dropbox folder there . You may encounter problems if Dropbox occasionally ca n't access the detached volume holding its folder , however . See <URL> : Your Dropbox folder must be available when your computer boots and before the Dropbox desktop application starts . Some USB drives , for example , take some time to mount before your computer recognizes them . The Dropbox desktop application could start before such a drive is ready and get confused . You will receive an error and Dropbox will give you the opportunity to relink your Dropbox account or exit if it is unable to find your Dropbox folder .
Yes . The PKZIP format used by Windows is understood by OS X and has been this way since about 10.3 . The tool used to extract the contents is called <URL> and it is installe , by default , with every OS X installation . Your Mac-using friend can either double click on the archive in Finder to extract it . Or right click/cmd-click and select the ' Open ' option from the list of actions .
While Apple 's <URL> will let you connect one of these external monitors , there 's also the <URL> which will connect two external DVI displays ( I 've never seen or used one , ymmv ) .
<URL> question over on StackExchange lead me to Apple 's <URL> , specifically , the background section . This lists the activities apps are aloud to run in the background , camera access is not one of them . This would also be a terrible condition for battery life and so it is not surprising that it is not supported . While this does n't guarantee that none of your apps will try to get access to your camera , you can rest assured that if anyone tried to , Apple would reject their app . This also ensures that there 's no API for background camera access , so unless someone has figured out a way to hack non-jail broken iOS at a very low level , we can all sleep safely with only the watchful eye of Siri upon us . Edit : Per my discussion with timothymh below , I realized you may have been asking about if you are still using a given app , having take a picture without switching to a new app . With more interesting reading from <URL> , we find that the camera API wo n't hand you data until a picture is taken or a video completed . Because the camera is n't handled by a daemon , it would be very difficult to be constantly polling the camera for input , even if you found a way past the API to get data without user input . Note I 'm not an Apple developer , but from an official standpoint , it appears what you 're talking about should n't be possible .
You can close all windows of an application ( including Finder ) with ⌘ + ⌥ + w . You can add a quit option to the Finder by running : Considering Finder is responsible for the desktop icons , quitting it rather pointless , but have it !
Since applications are just copied to the drive anywhere ( / Applications is simply a nice place for multi-user systems but apps run anywhere they land as long as it 's readable ) there is no mandatory place to record the installation . Have you considered using Time Machine to construct a history ? I use <URL> which will index all of your backups , so you can search and know the first backup that has that App . It 's not a true installation time , but it 's close within a week at worst if your backup runs at least that often . You 'll have to add some software that explicitly inventories your mac periodically to assemble such a list . Most of these apps are geared to remote management and not cost effective for one or a handful of macs .
You can copy/paste the application from one Mac to another , they will run as they are self-contained ( no files required in other locations ) . You may not even need to login to the App Store to run them . I had to install Xcode and Final Cut Pro on a very restricted network environment where the App Store is blocked , the apps ran fine . Licensing is an issue if you use the apps in a non-personal environment ( businness , education ) . Download and install work the same way .
To remove Firefox.app : Login with an administrator account You get the same result by just dragging the Firefox app from / Applications / to the trash . If the crashes continue after reinstalling , deleting preferences and support files in the user library may help :
By default the directory should not be directly writable , by other then root , without being prompt for permission with other users in Finder and or using from the command line . IMO should be used over for most applications as that is the default location . Also I certainly do not want to bloat out my Home folder with applications . I like keeping User Data separate from the OS and Applications , it just makes logical sense for many reasons .
On iOS 7 Open the Photos App and make sure you are in the " Photos " section from the three icons at the bottom of the screen ; Look at the top of the screen and make sure the view is " Moments ; " Now you can tap individual thumbnails one at a time to select them , or you can tap the word " Select " that appears at the top of each grouping to select an entire grouping . On iOS 6 Go to Settings → General → Usage → Photos &amp; Camera ; Swipe on the " Camera Roll " entry ; A " Delete " button appears . This solution does not work on iOS 7 ( last tested on iOS 7.0.4 ) . It is probably a bug . Any iOS , but using a computer If you have iOS 7 , you can use Image Capture on your Mac to delete photos from the iPhone without importing them : Plug the iPhone to your Mac with the iPhone cable ; Quit iPhoto if it launches automatically ; Launch Image Capture ; Select the photos you want to delete ; Click the red icon to delete the photos . <URL> <URL>
I highly recommend importing your photos at full resolution , on the off chance that you ever want to crop or make a big print or display on a high res screen in the future . With Apple Photos , you can import at full resolution and it will upload the full image to iCloud . Then , under Preferences : iCloud Photo Library select Optimize Mac Storage . Photos will now automatically switch to thumbnails when you start running low on space , and will automatically download the full-res version whenever you need to edit , view or export an image .
You can set the audio value on boot using this : will set to 0 % volume ( i.e. mute ) You can reset this by resetting the NVRAM by booting with ⌘ ⌥ PR , or running
<URL> is a Preferences Panel which allows you to edit the default application used for various URL schemes , file extensions , file types and MIME types .
You have three choices . They all come with pros and cons Run a Virtual Machine You have <URL> and <URL> in the commercial space to chose from when it comes to virtualization software . And if you 're comfortable tweaking and fiddling you can use <URL> for free . Pros : Near native speeds for your applications Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Windows programs Can pick between running them in a full Windows desktop-in-a-Window or in integrated mode where the Window apps appear as windowed apps right in your OS X desktop Decent support in the commercial offerings at least for graphics acceleration so you can run some graphics intensive programs You get a bunch of neat things with virtual machines including the ability to pause applications mid-run and snapshot the state of your virtual machine Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system The Windows OS installation will take up a lot of space on your hard drive , plus the Windows application space If your Mac is older , does n't have much RAM , the VM approach can drag down your system a bit but most , if not all , new Macs can handle VM hosting duties without much of any issue Run Wine Wine is a translation layer for Windows applications . It 's a bit like a virtual machine but does n't require the Windows OS . It sits between the Windows application and OS X and makes the application think it 's running on Windows by translating all the Windows calls its making to OS X calls . There are two choices of know of here . The free <URL> and the paid-for <URL> . Some commercial software is delivered for OS X this way -- I know The Sims 3 game that my wife likes to play on her MacBook Pro is actually the Windows version of the game running under the Wine emulator . Pros : You do n't need to buy a copy of Windows Your OS X-based data can be accessed from your Window programs Cons : Application support under Wine can be hit-and-miss . Some apps work well , some do n't . Check at <URL> to see if your applications are on the list of tested , supported applications if you 're going to try WineBottler . CodeWeavers keeps their own list . Because the Windows applications think they 're running on Windows , and not everything Windows does translates perfectly to OS X , some applications can behave erratically . Run Windows Native with BootCamp Windows can actually be installed your Apple hardware directly and usually runs just fine . Apple even provides a utility called <URL> that lets you keep a Windows and OS X installation available to your Mac and pick which OS to boot in to when you start up your machine . Pros : That 's the fastest you can get for Windows apps on Apple hardware . It 's the OS running on bare metal . If you need every last little bit of performance for your applications , this will be your best bet . Your Windows partition stays separate from your OS X partition so changes to one rarely impact the other Cons : You have to buy a copy of the Windows operating system Moving data between the Windows side to the OS X side is hard and in some cases impossible , for the most part the OS ' es and their programs are completely silo'ed
The best solution I found in the end was to use iTunes , select Photo syncing then instead of using iPhoto , manually selecting a folder full of video . This had to be video that iOS could play natively , it did n't do any kind of conversion or compression .
In a sense the basis of your question is in error . While iMovie is saving videos to your camera roll , this is n't using any extra space on your iPhone . That 's why you get the error you 're getting after deleting the files - because that 's where iMovie is trying to access the video from . Basically , what happens is the video is saved to your camera roll , but project specific info is saved within iMovie . Once you have totally finished a project , you can export/share/save the final version and after that you can delete the video you took from your camera roll ( if you want ) . If you like , you can actually prove this to yourself by doing a simple test : Go to Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud usage In the Storage section , tap on Manage Storage Wait for the list of apps to appear ( this may take a while if you have lots of apps ) . Tap on iMovie ( likely to be in your top 10 ) Take a note of how much space is used up by Documents &amp; Data Now go to your actual iMovie app and take a 30s video Go to your Camera roll and try to email this video to yourself You should get a warning saying that this attachment may be too large to email . This message will give you the size of the video . Take a note of this . Cancel the attempt to email the video . Repeat the first 5 steps . You should note that while your iMovie Documents &amp; Data have grown a little , it will not have grown by anywhere near the size of the actual video itself . The reason this has grown is because it 's storing project info , not because it 's storing the video again . Hopefully this little test will put your mind at ease . Do n't forget to delete your test video .
Stub applications are smaller apps that do work for larger , more complex apps . For example , an app can request information from a stub app concurrently with a main process that the original app is running . Then , the stub app can return information back to the main process that initiated the stub binary .
You can change the text editing bindings for Cocoa apps with DefaultKeyBinding.dict . This will work for almost all applications where the ⌘ command + ← left and ⌘ command + → right worked before . ( The only way it would n't work is if the application creator reimplemented those shortcuts from scratch , which is doubtful as it would be much easier to just use the versions that come free with a textfield . ) If the directory does not exist , create it . Create the file in that directory with contents like this : The refers to the Command key , is Option , is Left , and is Right . The selectors on the right-hand side are the same ones used in the default file , , but switched around to match what you said in your question . Restart an application for the changes to take effect in it . <URL> .
end question
start question
Disable webpages asking for location ?
Safari > Prefs > Privacy > Website use of Location services :
You may already know this , but there is an apple repair extension for these kind of issues now . They 'll fix it for free . <URL>
In System Preferences under Trackpad then Point &amp; Click , uncheck Look up .
If security is a major concern , I 'd assume that a software hack is not the solution . There still is a chance of malicious software importing code which re-enables the audio functionality . I read <URL> about disabling iSight on Macs where is was recommened to physically remove the webcam for absolute security . If you do not want to physically remove your iPhone 's microphone , I would try to distort the audio as good as possible - that would leave a spy with imprecise mumbling noises . The iPhone 4 can be muted quite effectively by just closing the hole at the bottom . There is a good chance that closing the hole of the microphone has the same effect . You could apply prestik or hot glue for example .
You should take a look at <URL> . It can selectively toggle function keys between being regular function keys or the special hardware keys , including the media keys ( F7 , F8 , and F9 ) . Essentially , it does the same thing as " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " setting ( System Preferences > Keyboard ) , except only to individual function keys instead of all of them .
No , you ca n't disable pop-up reminders globally . You can turn off an alert by accessing the event properties in the Calendar app , but then it will be disabled in Google Agenda too .
Yes , there is no column for that . And most files are in the iTunes library itself - as it copies them by default .
Safari > Prefs > Privacy > Website use of Location services :
Try System Prefs > User &amp; Groups > Your name > Login Items . Select it in the list &amp; click the - button underneath If it 's not listed there , then check either or to see whether it has an entry in there . It 's safe to remove items from there - though they will continue running until the next reboot . If you want to be able to restore functionality in future , zip the file in situ then trash the original .
It 's pretty common for a repair facility of any kind to ask for a username/password for the sake of verifying functionality . This is why it 's always a good idea to have a separate administrator account setup for these kind of tasks . Usually an " Administrator " account with a unique password works . I 've worked in the IT industry for almost 20 years , and I 've always appreciated when a user has a separate admin account . It makes working on the machine faster as there usually is n't as much stuff loading on start up . It also keeps me from seeing any of your information , which is great for legal reasons .
You can change this in System Preferences . Go to the Sound pane , and uncheck the checkbox . Also , if you want to not play the sound for a given change ( a one-off thing ) , hold down shift and change the volume . This will also play the sound if it 's turned off .
I believe this is what you are looking for : Go to the menu item Outlook - > Turn Off Office Reminders
Yes . This is a feature usually only offered by professional photo software . Removing metadata ( like or ) requires an additional step by the one that wants to share his/her photograph . Aperture for example offers to export picture as either an original or a version . When you choose to export a version the meta - and gps-data is removed from the original . I know from experience that sharing via the following options does not remove these and from pictures : Mail for OS X Tweetdeck for OS X Uploading via a web browser Here 's what the metadata of an export as original look like : Here 's what the metadata of an export as version by Aperture look like . This is an exported version of the same original . The data will differ depending on the export options for a version .
Apple works very hard to conserve battery life , and determining location , no matter if it is through GPS , cellular , or wifi connections takes extra battery . The arrow displays any time a 3rd party app requests your location . For instance , when you open Maps , the arrow will likely turn on because Maps needs to pinpoint where you are . The arrow may also turn on for system level locations services ( settings can be adjusted in Settings > Location Services > System Services ) , and depending on your settings , the arrow may or may not appear for that . As for Location Services being on or off , you can set that in the settings ( Settings > Location Services ) , but if you see the arrow , it is likely on already . The arrow only appears when location services are active , and may or may not show when it is just on .
No , there is no way to do this . Also , wifi is only searched for when you actually go to use your phone . It wo n't search for wifi networks constantly while the phone is in your pocket . Your iPhone is very good at managing its own battery usage . Checking what SSIDs exist is very battery efficient . Lastly , you can turn off that annoying prompt that comes up whenever networks are discovered . It 'll still automatically connect to wifi networks that you trust , but that dialog will never appear .
The flag icons are located in the file / System/Library/Keyboard Layouts/AppleKeyboardLayouts . bundle/Contents/Resources / AppleKeyboardLayouts-L . dat . The . dat file can be opened/read with the <URL> app . The . dat file is a flag " database " . To access the single flags in GraphicConverter use the pages drop-down menu at the bottom right of the main window . Several input method icons ( e.g. PNGs , TIFFs ) can be found at / System/Library/Input Methods/Input _ method.app / Contents/Resources / ... with Input_method . app one of the various IM.apps in / System/Library/Input Methods . The Custom Input icon may be this one : / System/Library/Input Methods/PluginIM . app/Contents/Resources / Custom.tiff .
iOS 7 introduced support for Bluetooth Low Energy ( BLE ) <URL> . These are small Bluetooth devices that can be placed to indicate a very specific location and the system respond in some way when they are detected . Enter a shop and an app for the shop showing you the latest offers might be one way for this to be leveraged . This would be different from usual geolocation APIs which become inaccurate when you are inside large structures ( offices , malls etc. ) as they can not get a GPS fix , and WiFi coverage tends to be meshed with repeater stations
Cursors are rendered using CoreGraphics The Wait Cursor or what is sometimes affectionately know as the " spinning beachball of death " is rendered in CoreGraphics ( Apple 's 2D rendering engine ) . Meaning , they are generated on the fly depending on what your preferences are set to ( i.e. cursor size ) . The CoreGraphics file is located at From my research I was able to find the parameters for the Wait Cursor : As far as working with images stored in CoreGraphics , I can point you to this tutorial : <URL> Static Images of Wait Cursor There is a directory that has static images of the cursors : Within that directory you will find a number of TIFF files . The specific file is Opening the file with preview ( ) yields the following graphic ( it 's quite small ) : <URL> How I located the file ... The El Capitan cusors link you provided had broken img src links , so I used the one for <URL> for reference as they are pretty much the same . The icon you wanted is called the " Wait cursor . " So , using the command in Terminal , I executed the following : The command basically says starting from the directory , look for all files with the name " waitCursor " in it regardless of case . I guessed the format of the name from the file naming conventions in the directory you initially provided . For example , the " Resize Down " cursor was called " resizedown " .
Apple uses WiFi hotspots ( and presumably the corresponding signal strength ) to triangulate your position using a data from Apple . Similar to how Google maps a hotspot using their StreetView cars , a 3rd party at one time scanned the area you travelled to and mapped the SSID and probably MAC address of the local hotspots . Though I do n't know if they still do , Apple at one time did not maintain this information internally but sourced it from a 3rd party . Some of the initial privacy concerns about iOS regarded how this information was ' phoned home ' to Apple without consent ; That is , when your iPod was connected and ' knew ' its location , it would also scan the local SSIDs and send them to Apple to improve/update the database . This data was sourced by <URL> . Based on my own inference from experience ( though not 100 % sure , and I no longer use an iPod , so even if this was true at one time it may not anymore be so ) , when you map a route in Maps , it caches the relevant SSID information for the areas to which you are travelling before it goes offline .
Turn off Autocorrect per Application You can do this in the Applications Edit Menu under Spelling and Grammar and disable ' Check Spelling While Typing ' .
end question
start question
Is there a keyboard shortcut for launching Activity Monitor ?
Save in AppleScript Editor and assign a shortcut in <URL> or <URL> :
In most applications pressing commandP brings up the printer dialog sheet , which uses standard tab and or arrow key navigation . The printer dialog sheet has two views . Show Details view , which means the Hide Details button is visible . Hide Details view , which means the Show Details button is visible . When it opens in the Show Details view , having the Hide Details button visible , the Printer : list box has focus and one can immediately press the up or down arrow keys to select between which installed printer , Add Printer ... and : Print &amp; Scan Preferences ... <URL> In the image above , pressing either the up or down arrow keys brings up the printer list box , as shown in the cropped image below , where one can select between which installed printer , Add Printer ... and : Print &amp; Scan Preferences ... <URL> When it opens in the Hide Details view , having the Show Details button visible , the Copies : text box has focus and one then needs to use tab key navigation to set focus to the Printer : list box and then press the up or down arrow keys to select which installed printer , Add Printer ... and : Print &amp; Scan Preferences ... <URL> In the image above , pressing the tab key several times ( 4 times ) will bring the Printer : list box into focus where one can then press the up or down arrow keys brings up the printer list box , shown as an example previously above .
The only application I 've found that supports that on 10.8 is <URL> . It does n't create new spaces though . <URL> stopped working in 10.7
I could n't find a way to disable it either , but if you click on the shortcut key combination , you can change it to something you 'll never press . ( I used shift-control-option-command-space )
With some care it can be done safely . It depends by and large on what kind of loads you 're placing on the MacBook when it 's being used like this . The MacBook Pro 's ventilation operates optimally with the lid open . Closing the lid restricts airflow out of the vents that run along the inside of the hinge on the laptop as seen here : <URL> When the lid is closed , there 's a slight gap along the bottom that 's used as an exit route for the hot air coming out of those vents as seen here : <URL> If you 're closing the lid , you should ensure that the entirety of this exit path along the bottom of the laptop is free from obstructions . That means not placing the bottom of laptop on a flat surface . Generally a vertical stand like this is employed if you want to operate the laptop with the lid closed and ensure ventilation remains adequate : <URL> You should monitor the temperature sensors of your laptop to ensure your workloads do n't push the unit beyond normal operating temperatures when you 're using it with the lid close . You can use something like <URL> to keep an eye on critical , system operating parameters such as CPU use and the various temperature sensors in your MacBook to make sure they stay within their safe operating limits .
<URL> ( 4 USD ) Based on your description , QuickRes appears to perfectly accomplish what you 're trying to do . You can set multiple ( up to 8 ) resolutions in its preferences and assign keyboard shortcuts to them . To access preferences , launch QuickRes and Ctrl-click ( right-click ) the icon that will appear in the menu bar . Note that Mac will give you an error and claim that it is from an " unidentified developer " ; simply Ctrl-click the app 's icon in Finder and click open . Screenshots are below : QuickRes options . Click Preferences . Also , after you set resolutions , you may simply click this icon normally to toggle between resolutions . Resolutions pane of QuickRes preferences . You may add more preferred resolutions in " Advanced . " Also , because this was taken on an iMac , you will have different resolution options for your MacBook Pro Retina . Shortcuts pane of QuickRes preferences . Right now , my shortcut is Command-Option-R . You can change this , of course . In the Advanced pane , you can set how many resolutions you wish to toggle . The shortcut only works when you have QuickRes open ( it 's a lightweight app , so do n't worry about resources ) , so I would recommend selecting " Open QuickRes on Login " to get it out of your way .
The search does n't function when Activity Monitor 's view is set to " All Processes , Hierarchically " . Open the view menu and change it to anything else , and it 'll activate again .
One of the easiest ways to do this is to use <URL> . It will let you bind a keyboard shortcut or a trackpad shortcut to many commands , including maximize window . Once you are in the BTT settings page , do the following : Go to the Keyboard tab on top . On the bottom near Keyboard shortcut , enter in whichever keyboard shortcut you want . For Predefined action , choose Maximize Window . There are many other options related to maximizing besides " Maximize Window " : Maximize Window Left Maximize Window Right Maximize Window To Bottom Half Maximize Window To Top Half Maximize To Next Monitor
Yes , you can do this . Open System Preferences . Select Keyboard . Select Keyboard Shortcuts . Select Application Shortcuts in the left navigation pane . Click the + button to create a new shortcut . Choose Microsoft Outlook.app in the Application drop-down menu . Enter the exact name of the menu command you want to add . E.g. for an Outlook category named " Project X " enter that category name , " Project X. " Click in the Keyboard Shortcut field and press a unique keyboard sequence such as Control-Option-T . Click the Add button . For some more ideas about how you could add keyboard shortcuts to Outlook : Mac , check out <URL> in the Office : Mac Help Blog .
Try this AppleScript : For some reason , the tilde does n't work in the path , so you have to enter your home folder . Since you want to assign that to a shortcut , download <URL> which enables you to assign shortcuts to AppleScripts . Hope this helps ! UPDATE : You can alternatively make an Automator service to run the Applescript . Open Automator and select Service On the left-side menu , select Utilities . In Utilities , drag and drop the " Run Applescript " action into your workflow Copy the applescript above into the " Run Applescript " action Save
I posted about this on the Google Groups for iTerm2 . The program author has now added to the program the option to rotate clockwise .
Assuming your running Snow Leopard & #x 2318 ; + space will open Spotlight which can be used to run terminal . Spotlight can be bound to another key combination but the default is similar to Windows + R.
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
You could do it with a script ... or you could hit CMD+T ab and while holding CMD hit " q " over and over . It will cycle through your apps and quit them one by one pretty quickly .
You could use an application like Alfred or Automator services to assign shortcuts for opening folders : If you want to open the folders over the current Finder window , you could use <URL> to assign shortcuts to scripts like this : <URL> allows adding custom shortcuts that work in both file dialogs and Finder .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
Select desired process , click the gear button or the View menu , and then select Sample Process . The 5th line in the sample window shows the path to the executable .
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
end question
start question
When using a redeemed code through Volume Purchase , who owns the copy of a B2B app , ultimately ?
Here is the relevant excerpt of the iTunes Store Terms and Conditions : <URL> CONTENT CODES [ ... ] YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT THE OWNER OF THE REDEEMING ITUNES ACCOUNT WILL BECOME ( i ) FOR AN APP STORE PRODUCT , THE LICENSEE OF THAT COPY OF THE PRODUCT ; AND ( ii ) FOR AN IBOOKS STORE PRODUCT , THE OWNER OF THAT COPY OF THE PRODUCT , AND SHALL BE ENTITLED TO ALL ASSOCIATED RIGHTS . SUCH LICENSES OR PRODUCTS ARE NON-TRANSFERABLE . for short : only managed distribution retains ownership !
It 's a good idea to keep the machine shaded , if only because it 's very hard to read any screen in bright sunlight . Also , on my deck in Carmel Valley California I 've had a thermometer placed in direct sunlight read well over 100 deg F ( 37 + deg C ) when the air temp has been around 80 deg F ( 26 deg C ) . Your Mac exposed in direct sunlight could well burst through Apple 's upper limit even when the ambient temperature is below .
You could just <URL> like this : See for a reference of the date format .
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
Your ringer volume adjusts the volume of the sound coming out of the phone when it 's ringing . If the phone is not playing media ( i.e. no sound is coming out of it ) then the volume buttons on the side adjust the ringer volume . If you are playing media ( music , video , etc ) out the internal speakers , then the buttons on the side adjust the volume of that media coming out those speakers . Finally , when you have headphones plugged in , the iPhone knows this and has a separate volume for headphones . Using the volume buttons will adjust the headphones volume when headphones are plugged in . The reason why these are separate is because sometimes you want to mute your ringer , but still want to listen to media ( or vice versa ) , and because the headphone and internal speaker volumes are different and need to be adjusted separately .
Yes , its called " closed clamshell " mode . In short , you 'll need to attach your MBA to a mouse , a keyboard and power : <URL>
In the " Input menu " in the menu bar ( to switch on . Make sure in is selected ) And you have your cheat sheet .
It prompts you ( just tried to open Aptana ) . I let it install and gives
Ah , OK , I think I found a resolution . It 's still not quite clear why this works or why there is a problem , but : First , head to the Settings in your iPhone . Click on General . Next , head to Date and Time which is down the list . Once you 're in there , you 'll want to change Set Automatically to Off . Go to Set Date &amp; Time . Click on Today 's Date . Once you do that , you 'll be given the option to change the date . Move the year one year forward to 2013 . This will prevent the error from happening . If you wish to change the date back to the real date , simply set Set Automatically to On and everything will return to normal . Head into Passbook and marvel at the apps . ( <URL> ) That fixes the issue on my phone .
Here is the relevant excerpt of the iTunes Store Terms and Conditions : <URL> CONTENT CODES [ ... ] YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT THE OWNER OF THE REDEEMING ITUNES ACCOUNT WILL BECOME ( i ) FOR AN APP STORE PRODUCT , THE LICENSEE OF THAT COPY OF THE PRODUCT ; AND ( ii ) FOR AN IBOOKS STORE PRODUCT , THE OWNER OF THAT COPY OF THE PRODUCT , AND SHALL BE ENTITLED TO ALL ASSOCIATED RIGHTS . SUCH LICENSES OR PRODUCTS ARE NON-TRANSFERABLE . for short : only managed distribution retains ownership !
According to <URL> , " The iTunes Store and Mac App Store uses Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) encryption on all functions that require personal information . " So passwords are sent encrypted , not in cleartext . If the NSA is packet sniffing at your local Starbucks , chances are they know how to get your password ( but if they 're looking for your App store password , you 've got bigger problems ) , but it should be reasonably safe .
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
Its an implementation detail that the developer has to implement , in your example case for Office its Microsoft . Here is the Cocoa Objective-C code that allows the developer to implement this feature : What your observing is normal behavior on almost all Applications on OS X and even the classic <URL> . Its one of those thing you should get use to on the Mac . However , these days you are in luck that things are changing in your favor in Lion and probably later as OS X gains more features from iOS . As referenced in <URL> . Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination . Clearly it looks like that version of Microsoft Office does not support Automatic Termination yet , but it may be coming . So for now the most you can do is check the programs preferences for options relating to quitting the application when it has no more windows open . Also I encourage you to give Microsoft and or any developer of Apps feedback that you would like see " quitting on last window closed " as a preference option or suggest they add support for Automatic Termination to their products . Until then just remember to use ⌘ + Q when you are done with those applications that do not automatically quit when you close all its windows .
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
In Settings -- > Location Services each application that uses location services is listed . In that list any apps that are currently using locations services or have used location services in the last 24 hours includes a little arrow icon . The icons differ based on whether they are currently or recently used location services , and if currently then whether it 's a geofence or regular updates . The icons and description for each icon are included in that settings panel .
There are three avenues to this : get a soft toothbrush and make sure the speaker grill is clean and free of debris position the phone so the speaker echoes/reverberates from a hard reflective surface that channels the sound to your ears . choose custom alarm tones that are <URL> and perhaps alternate loud/soft as your brain will hear the changes as more relevant than a flat loud monotone
It 's due to the new multi-display handling in Mavericks where the Dock can be made to show on both displays . It 's not actually ' auto-hiding ' hence why the auto-hiding is still disabled . To go back to the old multi-display method , go to System Preferences → Mission Control and uncheck Displays have separate Spaces .
Yes . This kind of ' donation ' IAP is fine and approved by Apple . For an example of an app which uses this , see Pedometer + + ( an app promoted by Apple on numerous occasions ) which uses three donation IAPs of different values to allow users more control over the quantity of their donation -- also allowed .
It can be done , although you need to find the Mavericks volume feedback sound file . The filename is " volume.aiff " and ( for both Mavericks and Yosemite ) it is located in : / System/Library/LoginPlugins / BezelServices.loginPlugin / Contents/Resources Find the Mavericks volume feedback sound file and put it on your Desktop for easy access . Open the Terminal and navigate to the folder containing the sound file : Create a backup of the original file in case you want to reverse the changes : Provide the password when prompted . Now copy in the Mavericks sound file placed on your Desktop : Restart
Once you use the Instant Send hotkey to select the file in Launchbar ... You can start typing " Applications " to select your folder . Then press Return and select Copy to " Applications " from the menu .
end question
start question
Why does my AirPlay stream distort at high volume ?
Network issues only ever result in the audio cutting out , they ca n't really change the content . Distortion means your speakers get overloaded . Turning down the volume is your only option . The reason your speakers are fine on the Mac is that after the slider in iTunes the sound gets further attenuated by the system volume buttons on your keyboard . If you turn those up far enough you 'll get distortion as well .
Your 10.9.5 and your Router are having problem of identity . Your 10.9.5 can not find the correct name , or your router is not broadcasting it correctly . So try changing the name of your Network , and make sure it is moved to the Top of the Network list and choose different Chanel . Also you could <URL> ones . I would not panic but on they web site they skipped 10.9.5 ( Mavericks ) and call it Yosemite ? Probably just a stupid typo :) Mac OS X 10.7 Lion Mac OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion Mac OS X 10.9 Yosemite
To force the usage of the discrete graphics card in your macbook you can uncheck the automatic graphics switching checkbox in the system preferences / energy saver panel As the message states , this does drain the battery faster . However , your mac should not behave as you describe , I suggest taking it to a service desk so apple can take a look at it , or call apple to ask why it is so choppy .
It 's not just for AirPlay . It 's general-purpose media redirection . You can use it to switch between the built-in earpiece , the speaker on the bottom , Bluetooth earpiece , etc when on a phone call . For example , I placed a call then went over to the audio controls in the multitasking bar . It just so happens that the primary use is for AirPlay and media playback .
There is an Apple Discussion <URL> that describes the same problem , and refers to <URL> OSX Dialy link on how to correctly refresh LaunchPad , and fix a corrupted LaunchPad . The short version of the answer is : Basically I used terminal to kill the dock with the command " killall Dock " Then I had to delete the dock database file located in " Home Folder/Library/Application Support/Dock " you get to your Library folder by holding down the option key while clicking " Go " in Finder . Then kill the dock again with the terminal command " killall Dock " . Finally After putting all my apps back where I wanted them they are now saving .
I answered a similar question <URL> . You can summon the Dock on a different display by dragging the cursor to the bottom of it 's display , and then continuing the dragging down motion for a second or so . Is it possible that this is occurring when you inadvertently perform that action ?
Be sure to click the mouse once to wake it up , because it will likely have gone to sleep .
Try to reset the <URL> . Resetting the SMC on Mac portables with a battery you can remove Shut down the computer . Disconnect the MagSafe power adapter from the computer , if it 's connected . Remove the battery . Press and hold the power button for 5 seconds . Release the power button . Reconnect the battery and MagSafe power adapter . Press the power button to turn on the computer .
160 degrees Fahrenheit , if it is CPU temperature , is normal for MBP . MBPs are designed to run pretty hot , with the aluminum case as the main heatsink the casing gets uncomfortably hot sometimes . If you want to remedy the problem : use a laptop stand ( I use Belkin Cushtops , they are really comfortable ) , put your laptop on steady , heat-transducing surface ( human skin , blankets or soft chairs are bad -- wooden/plastic/metallic tables are good ) , open up the casing and clean the dust ( can make it ~ 10 degrees Celcius cooler ) or , use less video - or CPU-intensive application =)
I found <URL> in the community forum of Dropbox . A user sent a ticket to Dropbox asking about this and he posted the reply there . According to the reply , Dropbox needs to control the computer in order to keep our data safe . I 'm copying both the ticket and the answer over here . Thank you for writing in regarding the security of your account information . I can certainly understand you wanting to ensure the security of data you have entrusted to Dropbox . I will be happy to explain the measures taken by Dropbox to ensure the security of everyone 's account . Permission to control the computer is just another way of saying that there are certain system permissions Dropbox needs to function , and many of those permissions are to establish secure connections in order to protect the data contained within your Dropbox folders . Operating system permissions prevent files from being viewed or edited by unauthorized logins . Permissions can be set any number of ways and can be restored manually through a fairly simple process . Another possible cause of issues with Dropbox arise when conflicts exist between your local network sharing or folder redirection preferences setup in folders or files within your Dropbox . Similar effects can also happen when your Dropbox folder or its system files are located in a mounted network drive or a remote location ( like roaming profiles ) since this could cause Dropbox to not have constant access or permissions to operate in those locations . This is especially an issue if other people in the network could be accessing the same data . For these reasons , I 'd suggest that you ensure that your setup does not include any of the above scenarios . Additional permissions my be required when syncing mobile devices , particularly when photos or photo albums are involved . Since there is a great deal of personally identifying information stored in the metadata for a photo file ( yes , people can find you if they know how to decrypt this metadata ) , some of the additional permissions required for our Carousel app , for example , include : iOS - Contacts - Photos - Camera - Notifications - Background App Refresh - Use Cellular Data Android - In-app purchases - Device &amp; app history - Identity - Contacts/Calendar - Photos/Media/Files - Camera/Microphone - Wi-Fi connection information - Device ID &amp; call information Facebook does not offer a large amount of granularity or retroactive permissions control , so we need to request all the permissions we need or even may need in the future . I want to reiterate the point that all these steps are taken in order to prevent access to your data , not to facilitate access to your data . Dropbox takes great pride in being a company worth of the trust of our users , and we would never ask you to allow us access with the intent of violating that trust . I hope this helps clarify our account security measures regarding permissions . Thank you so much for using Dropbox , and please let me know if there 's anything else I can help with . Another user asked the following pertinent questions , but he never got any answers for those at least not in that thread . " ( ... ) why the need to give up access across the board as opposed to an as needed basis ? ( ... ) It 's hard for me to grasp why giving up OS level access to data that Dropbox does n't need for our use , makes our data safer ? ( ... ) Syncing data for example seems to work fine without the permissions checked . What am I missing ? I 'm not trying to be combative ; just hoping to get a better understanding . ( ... ) "
There are restrictions on Airplay in Mountain Lion . It has to do with your video card that comes on the machines that you are using . Your video card has to be powerful enough to do all the heavy lifting of streaming so that your CPU is unhindered and therefor you can smoothly still use your machine . This <URL> should help you out and explain things and find an alternative , such as AirParrot . Here is an <URL> on the subject , listing the restrictions and giving more information on how Airplay Mirroring works . Here is the excert from the article showing the compatible computers : As for a Mac Pro , they are not listed as a compatible model that supports Airplay Mirroring , as discussed in this article <URL> . You can still connect a cable and mirror in that sense , that has not changed in ML . The mirroring feature of using a separate display is a completely different process than Airplay Mirroring . I hope that this answer helps you out .
Your ringer volume adjusts the volume of the sound coming out of the phone when it 's ringing . If the phone is not playing media ( i.e. no sound is coming out of it ) then the volume buttons on the side adjust the ringer volume . If you are playing media ( music , video , etc ) out the internal speakers , then the buttons on the side adjust the volume of that media coming out those speakers . Finally , when you have headphones plugged in , the iPhone knows this and has a separate volume for headphones . Using the volume buttons will adjust the headphones volume when headphones are plugged in . The reason why these are separate is because sometimes you want to mute your ringer , but still want to listen to media ( or vice versa ) , and because the headphone and internal speaker volumes are different and need to be adjusted separately .
Well , this is one of those things where there 's 101 ways to do it and it 's just trial and error to see which works best for you . You could try wired connections using an HDMI cable or composite AV from your iphone to your TV , or there 's a variety of aftermarket apps that may work better for you . I 've detailed some ideas below : Connect With HDMI You 'll need to purchase <URL> for this option . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI port of the adapter , and the other end into an available HDMI port on your TV . Switch your TV to the appropriate HDMI input . For earlier models such as the iPhone 4 , the original iPad , or the fourth-generation iPod Touch , the display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect With Composite AV If your TV does n't support HDMI , or if it does n't have an available connection , you can link your device to the set through an analog connection , using an <URL> . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug the yellow video cable at the end of the adapter into an available analog video port on your TV . Plug the red and white audio cables at the end of the adapter into the red and white audio ports corresponding to the yellow video input on your TV . Tune your TV to the appropriate composite video input . The display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect Wirelessly via Airplay Apple developed a wireless technology called AirPlay specifically for streaming content from iOS devices to other devices that support it . Make sure that your iPhone is on the same wireless network as your other AirPlay devices . On your iPhone , double-tap the Home button . Swipe the list that appears to the right , until you get to the volume and AirPlay settings . Tap the AirPlay button to bring up a list of supported AirPlay devices on your network . Tap the device to which you would like to stream . A TV icon next to the device indicates that you can stream images , video , and/or audio , while a speaker icon indicates that you can stream only audio . Connect Wirelessly via DLNA If you do n't want to shell out for an AirPlay-capable device , you may be able to use DLNA instead . These days , many modern TVs support streaming from a local network ( wired or wireless ) via the DLNA ( Digital Living Network Alliance ) standard . If your TV supports DLNA ( or sometimes just " UPnP " ) streaming , you can use your iPhone as a DLNA server . Just download and install a DLNA-server app -- <URL> , for example -- and you 're good to go . Connect Wirelessly with Aftermarket Apps You could try <URL> or <URL> as alternatives to the standard airplay functionality .
Note that there are usually two ways of installing applications on Mac OS X : A simple and common way is to send the user an application bundle . The user can copy it to whichever directory ( s ) he feels like it . Typically , applications are copied/moved to the / Applications directory and can be moved around the filesystem ( or to other filesystems ) . Another way is to provide an installer . Installers are helpful in case there 's need for pre - / post-flight scripts or specific directories . So , answering your questions : In Mac/Unix since there is no control panel , I could be installing same dmg again and again . I would never get repair option ? Although there is something similar to Control Panel , namely System Preferences.app , there is no stock application to manage applications ( list , install , remove ) . Since most users install applications to the / Applications directory , listing applications is done via inspecting the directory , installing applications is done via copying/moving application bundles to that directory , and removing applications is done via removing application bundles from that directory . Yes , it is possible for a user to install the same application repeatedly -- but I ca n't really imagine a use case for that . Maybe you 're asking this because of a ' repair option ' ? What would that do ? If you 're considering the case where an application bundle gets corrupted by some reason then it could be just a matter of copying the application bundle again . Why are Volume and mount required ? . Is n't the installation on unix like copying files to a target system ? . dmg volumes are not required to install applications . A developer/distributor can ship an application bundle in a . zip file , or a . tar file , or a compressed . tar file . Many developers prefer to ship applications via a . dmg volume because it is possible to customise the appearance of the volume when it is mounted -- custom background , custom icons , custom icon sizes , or a link to the / Applications directory to make it easier for the user to copy the application bundle to that location .
AirPlay sends MP3 , AAC and H. 264 compressed data directly to receivers , thus a very high compression in some cases and very good for the rest . Apple 'd developer documentation covers the basics as well as some tips for preparing content so that it streams/forwards well . <URL> The decoding of the streams is done by a chip ( and encoded as well - the same on iOS as on OS X ) so you can see which devices support AirPlay and deduce which GPU and CPU families have the hardware to do this both rapidly and in the case of iOS with low power usage . This iOS support matrix is very handy to see each iOS version and the CPU/RAM for various models even though it does n't call out AirPlay support specifically .
Should be possible with <URL> , but I 've only personally used it to send audio between two Macs . They have a Windows version as well , though .
natd should be runnng ... NAT means <URL> , so it 's basically translating ( communicating ) between the Modem and the Wifi Access Point to share your connection . You can read more about it here , <URL> So in short this needs to run to share your connection , Hope this helps . Karl
It ca n't hurt to repair permissions on your actual disk , but it is quite unnecessary , because " Macintosh HD " contains the actual operating system , so the stuff that you want to repair .
On your iPhone , you have a 6 digit code , replacing the prior 4 digit code . On your iPad , you have an alphanumeric password , which just happens to consist of just 6 digits . Alphanumeric passwords on iOS are just like other passwords in that you have to confirm when you have finished typing .
Unfortunately , a lot of the graphics on the MacBook Pro with Retina Display are a bit choppy ( for example , scrolling and window resizing ) . The new rMBP simply has a lot of pixels , and the graphics card is no better than the one in the regular MBP . In the next few years we can probably expect this to improve with further software optimizations and better hardware offerings . See also : <URL> ( MacRumors ) <URL> ( AnandTech )
end question
start question
How to select multiple app icons in Launchpad to move them ?
This kind of operation does n't seem to be available . Based on how the interaction between the waggling icons and the gui is , I do n't even think it would be possible with a reasonable usability . Apple has chosen to reproduce the same feel as it is on iOS devices so that everybody familiar with that - extremely easy , btw - workflow can achieve the same in Lion .
It might be placed there when an Apple employee decides to feature it .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
Go to the Window menu and un-check the Application Frame menu item . The palettes will pop to the edges of your screen and the documents will turn into floating windows .
Unfortunately the installer package contains the source files for the installation and this package is deleted once installation has completed . If you still have the installer in Applications , right-click on it and Show Package Contents then browse to the / Contents/SharedSupport / folder and look for the InstallESD.dmg disk image . This image can be burnt to a dvd saving future downloads but I am afraid you are going to have to download it again .
You should be able to do this using shared libraries , which would probably be the easiest way and not cause any problems with permissions or anything like that , however it would probably end up with number of separate libraries rather than just having a one large library . UPDATE : Having had a bit of a look into the shared libraries feature it could be a decent option if combined with iTunes DJ - which can be turned on in preferences if currently off . Essentially you would require everyone to turn sharing on for their iTunes library ( or specific playlists ) then have one of your computers acting as a master which has iTunes DJ setup . You can then add tracks from any of the libraries and have requests and votes for next tracks sent via the Remote app for iPhone or just shouted across the office . May still not be quite what you 're after , but essentially uses features already available in iTunes rather than a 3rd Party app to do it for you . -- You could try having one folder for music and all linking to it , but you may hit permission issues or DRM or something silly like that . <URL> This tells you how to move the library to a shared folder for one computer to allow multiple users to connect to it , the actual library is still per user , so you may get duplicate files or have to update the library if new files are added . In theory this would allow multiple computers to connect to one collection of music , add to it and play the files others have added . Though my theory is untested and may be flawed ( like all good theories ) . On a different note : I was able to have one library ( so viewing the same apps , podcasts , music etc. without the need to update it each time you logged in or downloaded new stuff ) for multiple users on one computer by copying the whole iTunes folder to the shared folder and then adding an alias to the shared iTunes folder in the Music folder for each users Home folder - which is a bit of a convoluted sentence - which may be of some help , but probably not as the library gets locked when it 's accessed by a user , so i ca n't imagine it 'd help for multiple computers . Just another way of doing things . Hope that helps in some way , let me know id it 's absolute guff though .
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
An update for LaunchBar 6 Version 6.0 introduced a slick way of selecting multiple items . The LaunchBar folks call it the &#8220; Sixth Sense &#8221; . Selected items are held in a &#8220; staging area &#8221; and can be acted upon all at once using typical LaunchBar tools . Typing Command-A will select all items in the search list . Typing a Comma ( &#8220; , &#8221; ) will select the current item and allow you to move on to select more . Pressing Shift will scrolling up or down with the arrow keys select continuously as you scroll You can undo these actions by repeating them with a selected file . Hitting Escape clears the selections . The selection then works with other actions : Press Tab to send them to another folder , etc. . There &#8217; s a discussion at the <URL>
It appears you can start Fusion headless by executing the following : / Applications/VMware \ Fusion.app / Contents/Library/vmrun - T fusion start ~ / Documents/Virtual \ Machines.localized / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmwarevm / [ IMAGENAME ] . vmx nogui You could also add to your $ PATH or create an alias to have easier access to the command . You can find more info on the command in <URL> . While a bit out-dated , it should still contain relevant information on how to start and stop your server . If you are interested in running headless Linux servers for your development environment etc , I can also highly recommend to use VirtualBox instead . It is free , has extensive command-line support , and while running headless VMs Fusion loses most if its advantages ( seamless GUI integration ) over VirtualBox anyway . What 's more , tools like <URL> can even facilitate running these environments to a much greater extent . With the addition of a paid add-on ( " provider " ) , Vagrant can control VMWare as well as VirtualBox for you <URL> .
Open Audio MIDI Setup from Applications > Utilities . Click the + button in the bottom left corner and select " Create Multi-Output Device " . Check " Built-In Output " ( this may already be checked ) and the Soundflower output of your choice . Right-click ( or control-click ) the device you just created and select " Use this device for sound output " .
You can use <URL> : This can be run on an entire folder using find :
Pressing the shortcuts for changing desktops while dragging a window should still work , but the shortcuts have to be enabled in System Preferences . <URL> supports for example assigning ⌃ ⇧ → to moving a window to the next desktop .
Open Mission Control and just click on the Downloading Xcode icon . This will pause it . Clicking again will resume .
For Mac : Open the " FaceTime " application on the Mac Pull down the FaceTime menu and choose " Preferences " Under the primary Settings tab , uncheck the box for " iPhone Cellular Calls " Quit FaceTime For iPad : Settings - > Facetime - > iPhone Cellular Calls on the iPad .
Your frustration with the Finder is a worldwide sport :) Finder does make things harder sometimes . Finder exhibits different behavior depending upon the context ( both the source and destination ) of your files . If you drag files in the same " Volume " ( or Drive ) , it will default to Move . If you drag files to a different " Volume " ( or Drive ) , it will default to Copy . However , this behavior can be inverted by pressing ⌥ while dragging . ( That 's option or alt in non-apple keyboards ) . So for instance if you Drag a set of files to another folder in the same drive ( say from your Documents to your Desktop ) , Finder will default to Move those files . If you intend to Copy , you have to press ⌥ . This will change the cursor and a green " + " marble will appear , indicating that you will be making a copy . If , on the other hand you insert a USB Key and want to Move files from there to your Desktop , Finder will default to Copy ( when you drag ) , so you will have to override it by , again , pressing ⌥ . This time the Green " + " Marble will disappear . If you happen to have a two-button mouse , you can always drag with the right mouse button ; upon release in the destination folder , a contextual menu will appear , asking you for an action ( Copy or Move ) . Finder does n't implement cut , so any " move " operation must be manually performed by using the mouse as I 've just described . There is , albeit for a small price , a very decent Finder " plug-in " . I 'm talking about <URL> . It 's not a bloated piece of software and has been decently stable since I got it . Among other features ( like tabs ! ) it sports Cut and Paste : Use keyboard shortcuts to move files around . Faster than drag &amp; drop . I do not work for BinaryAge but I do recommend TotalFinder to people who does n't want to use a full finder replacement ( like the excellent <URL> ) , but still wants a few details . All these pieces of software offer trial versions so you can " see for yourself " . Finally , as already suggested , do n't ⌘ and click to move or copy files or you will be effectively deselecting the last one . Hope this helps you a little bit more . As a side note , there are some Finder alternatives or enhancements , some of these topics have been discussed here on Ask Different .
This is a known bug and has been filed with Apple . All we can do is wait on a fix . The database gets corrupted when a new entry is added and moved . The only current workaround is to delete the database and start over , but bear in mind that once a new item is added and moved to a different position , the corruption will occur again . The database is located in
If you change your " arrange by " options via " right click " > " arrange by " to any other than " none " spaces between the icons is clinched/stretched according to window size , or icons even get rearranged to the next line if space gets to narrow . This should be default behaviour without " arrange by " since it kind of breaks list view if active . Sadly Apple rarely listens to customer needs , since they " know what the customer wants " .
This is currently not possible within iOS . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
If it is a bluetooth mouse you can disable it waking the computer by unchecking in System Preferences - Bluetooth - Advanced This will also effect the wireless keyboard waking the Mac so you will need to use the power button to wake it .
The city that shows is the one at the top of the list in the World Clock watch app and the World Clock section in the Clock app on my iPhone ( which can be set the iPhone app : click Edit and then drag ) .
end question
start question
Shortcut Keys for Moving Desktops in Mission Control in Mountain Lion 10.8.x ?
Regrettably I do n't believe this is possible . As you 've probably noticed , there are no user-accessible options for this in System Preferences ' Keyboard Shortcuts . As far as I can determine , there are n't any scriptable interfaces either ( plists , Applescript ) . Options for building your own program seem to be pretty limited as well , according to <URL> I found . The most you seem to be able to do programmatically is <URL> . The only way to possibly do this without some serious OS X hacking is to use something like <URL> to do some GUI scripting to do the dragging for you . However GUI scripting is always a bit messy , and you 'd need to account for the changing positions of the desktops , depending on how many are open , etc. . I suspect that 's not exactly what you were looking for , but it 's probably the closest you 'll get , unless someone finds something I did n't . Sorry .
Try hyperswitch ( <URL> ) - you can switch between windows only from current desktop .
No , but you can upgrade right from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.8 Mountain Lion when Mountain Lion ships next month ( for $ 20 USD ) , without having to spend the extra $ 30 USD to go from 10.6 Snow Leopard to 10.7 Lion .
With OS X 10.8 gfxCardStatus is no longer capable of enforcing Integrated Graphics card only . When one uses VMWare Fusion , the discrete graphics card is enforced , which drains the battery too fast . I have not found any solution online to fix this . But I managed ( thanks to PePe ) to discover one . How to use Integrated Graphics Card with VMware Fusion on OS X 10.8 : Install <URL> Before launching VMware Fusion , click on Integrated only ( THIS IS A VERY IMPORTANT STEP : click it several times until it has the checkbox on the Integrated only . ) : Then launch VMWare Fusion , start whatever virtual machine . And do n't do anything inside . Leave it idle . There 's a BackTrack 5 R3 with the integrated graphics card : <URL> There 's a BackTrack 5 R3 VM and a Windows XP ( both idle ) with the integrated graphics card : <URL> I 'm using <URL> ( not free ) to check my power consumption . Here 's my power consumption with the two VMs : Cody Krieger ( the creator of gfxCardStatus ) says that even if it says that the Integrated is being used , the Discrete ( NVidia ) is still being powered on , which invalidates the whole exercise . How do I know that I 'm saving power ? Well , let 's go to Discrete and check the power consumption : - > Now , let 's check what the consumption is ( the same two idle VMs ) : So instead of having 3:27 hours left , I now have 1:22 hours left . My consumption 2.5 Amp , instead of 1.1 Amp . I ca n't directly go back though : What I have to do is to stop VMware completely ( Cmd + Q ) , go to Integrated only again and restart all the VMs This is something that I discovered today . So it may not be working as expected , but for now it seems it is . My setup : OS X 10.8.2 on a Macbook Pro 8.2 ( A1286 , Quad Core i7 2.3 Ghz , 16gb RAM , 256gb OCZ Vertex 3 , AMD Radeon HD 6750M 1GB ) VMware Fusion 5.0.1 with 2 VMs -- Windows XP Pro and Backtrack 5 R3 ( both were idle during this setup ) .
I found a project online which i think uses an old WEBKIT renderer . . <URL> gives old versions , but i do n't know which ones you will be able to run on your new machine . For myself , I 'm running 4.0.5 because of the reduced RAM usage .
First of all , make sure you have added your systems knows about your Apple ID ( go to System Preferences - > Users &amp; Groups - > Your User - > Apple ID ) . Then launch Chess ; obviously you 'll need to have an internet connection . After a short wait ( a second or two in my case , might depend on your internet connection ) , a badge like the following should appear in the Chess window : After it appears , you should simply be able to go to Game - > New ... and select GameCenter Match in Players .
You can go to in the system preferences and select for your printer . In there , you should see an option for ( if your printer supports it ) . If that is checked , you can use the automatic double-side printing ( by checking the box next to ) . If not , or if that option is unavailable , you ca n't . In case you ca n't select that option , here 's how you can manually print double-sided pages . Manual double-side printing You can control manual double-side printing ( i.e. , you physically turn the sheets over ) using the setting in the print dialog . If you select , you 'll find a option that lets you print either only the odd pages or only the even pages ( default is both ) . To print double side manually , select first and when it finishes printing , flip the pages over and select Instead of flipping each page over to its blank side before printing the even pages , you have a more convenient option of flipping the entire block of pages , so that the last sheet is on top ( useful when you have a lot of pages to be printed ) . With this , you can then choose in to print the even numbered pages backwards . ( Note : be careful that if you have an odd-number of pages in total , you might have to leave the last one out before printing the even ones . )
You can do this from the dock . Switch to the space you want to pin your app to , then access the options menu from its dock icon :
This sounds like Scroll Lock is somehow activated on your copy of Excel . IF you have a large keyboard with an F14 key , ShiftF14 can turn on and off Scroll Lock . If you do n't have such a keyboard , or access to such a keyboard , it gets more complicated . Microsoft support posted <URL> about the various methods of deactivating Scroll Lock . They either involve connecting a keyboard with a F14 key or removing your Excel preferences file .
The simplest solution I found is to <URL> ( download button is on top right ) Unpack it to somewhere . Preferably to . This is what it looks for me : Set your to your new location by doing before your in your ( or ) file Prepend to your by doing this Restart your shell or do
Not built-in , but it is available through a no-restart extension called <URL> : Access Bookmark Toolbar items with a keyboard shortcut . The default is Control +1 -9 . Change it in the preferences . Note that you have to organize your bookmarks toolbar with up to nine of your favorite links at the beginning of the list to use it . There is no way to map a specific number to a specific link ( except by the order in which they appear ) . Note : In my use , I could not get Cmd +1 -9 to work because it 's used to navigate to open tabs . But it did work with Alt + Shift +1 -9 . I did n't use the default Control +1 -9 because that 's mapped to switching spaces in OS X and I did n't want to re-map it .
You can use the move tool by pressing Option + Space . The cursor will change to the hand that would allow you to scroll the content in all directions .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
You can always use the terminal command with the option : [ Option - P will ] Overwrite regular files before deleting them . Files are overwritten three times , first with the byte pattern 0xff , then 0x00 , and then 0xff again , before they are deleted . If you 're not handy with the Terminal , just : Open the Terminal.app ( Found in / Applications/Utilities ) . Type and drag the folder which contains the file you want to delete , to the terminal window . Type and hit Enter
No , the update will not be free ( though it is yet unclear what the price will be , possibilities ranging from $ 29 to $ 129 ) , and will only be free for those who purchase computers within 2 weeks of the update coming out ( this is usually the time window for the free upgrades that Apple offers ) in the summer . If you 've purchased your computer recently , sorry , but you 'll have to pay for it .
Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.2 : Click on the photo in Contacts Click once to select the one you want from the resulting grid of available photos Click on the icon with the pencil across it at the bottom left of the grid window . Click on the larger version of the image that appears , and copy the image to the clipboard . Assuming Mountain Lion 10.8.4 : Click on the photo in Contacts Make sure the image opens in the large Pop-up underneath the small image . Click on the larger image . Copy the image to the clipboard , e.g. via command-C . You can now paste the image anywhere you want . For example , you can open Preview and , when it 's ready , select the menu File < New from Clipboard , and a new window will open with the photo in it . You can then save that file in any format available to anywhere you wish .
Instead of trying to drag the account ( s ) into the desired order in Preferences , drag the account 's mailbox to the desired order from the mailbox list in the sidebar of Mail.app main window . Open the inbox and drag the desired sub-inbox to the top . The position in the other places like the trash and drafts boxes will follow . Then quit Mail.app and open it again to make the changes take effect . Whichever account 's mailbox is at the top of the list will be the default mailbox . If an account mailbox is at the top , but the account is not the default , drag it down and then back up to the top . This will reset the order and establish the top one as the default .
Open Mission Control and just click on the Downloading Xcode icon . This will pause it . Clicking again will resume .
Theres been <URL> online of messages sync being a bit buggy if you do n't set it up exactly right . Heres a few solutions that should get everything syncing nicely for you : Firstly , you need to have all devices set up to the same Apple ID iOS Devices ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad ) : Navigate to Settings > Messages . Make sure iMessage is turned on . Tap on Receive At . Check your Apple ID . Make note of this Apple ID . Tap on Caller ID . Use your email address . If you use your phone number ( assuming you &#8217; re on an iPhone ) , then the non phone devices ( including the Mac ) may not ( and probably won &#8217; t ) see the messages . Mac version : Navigate to the Messages app . Go to Preferences > Accounts . Add the same Apple ID as you used on the iOS devices . In a nutshell : everything needs to be consistent . Use the same Apple ID everywhere and an email address as a caller id for best results . If things are still not syncing , try the following . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
To Remove the Calendar completely . Go to the Mail , Contacts &amp; Calendars Preference in System Preferences select the google mail account and uncheck the Calendars &amp; Reminders To Set the default Calendar for new events . In Calendar the default calendar for new events is controlled in the Preferences . You can set it to Selected Calender to make new events appear for the calendar you have selected or choose a particular calendar
end question
start question
How to drop a file onto a GUI app from command line ?
Generally this is equivalent to dragging a file onto an app 's icon : You can use the complete path to your app if it is n't in an expected place .
What 's an FKEY ? FKEY 's ( Function Keys ) are resources containing executable code that are called upon by hitting the keys Command-Shift - # ( any number 0-9 ) at the same time . In the standard System file there are two FKEY 's ; with an ID # 3 and # 4 that are used to dump the current screen or window onto disk or printer .1 So far as I can remember/find , screenshot commands were first added to the OS itself in <URL> .2 1 Text and image from <URL> by John Holder ( MacTech magazine , 1988 ) 2 Further reading/references : <URL> and a forum posting from 2003 , <URL> ( the latter of which features some guy named <URL> ) .
Not unless you use custom firmware ( Rockbox , iPod Linux for older models ) . The iPod depends on a database file for playing files and if you just copy the files over they will not be in said database and subsequently the iPod will not be able to play them .
Use the following Terminal command : For a list of valid timezone values , use :
To get an app for free ( if you did n't get the choice to pick None as payment option ) you should open your installed ITunes program . Then from within the program go to ITunes Store and pick any free app and try to buy it ( Google Translate or some other one ) . It will tell you to login/register into ITunes . If you create account from there you will have a choice to pick None as payment option . This worked for me several times for my customers .
You might be able to use ioreg to determine the cycle count of the battery . A low cycle count indicates that the battery has not been discharged and charged very much . " Cycle Count " shows how many times the battery has been cycled . You can read more about battery cycle counts <URL> . Another idea is to use pmset to log the state of the system 's power . You could , in theory , have that dump to a file to investigate after some time has passed . Take a look at the <URL> . will log the state of system 's power . As the device is unplugged or plugged you 'll see the log update . This could show how frequently a notebook is unplugged and charged . If it remains plugged in for long spans of time , or is often drawing from ' AC Power ' then you 'd know if it 's mobile or not .
If you can transfer the document to a general-purpose app that " knows " about files ( like <URL> , <URL> , or iBooks ) , you should be able to access it from the file-handling dialog from within iTunes . Most computers can create an ad-hoc WiFi network ; using this , you 'd use a network-sharing app ( like <URL> ) to mount a disk from your iPhone and transfer the files to your computer .
Drag protocol can be a bit confusing , however , it does follow a recognisable pattern ... To the same volume Drag will move - unless the file is in a protected location [ root level of the volume , or in a protected System folder ] , in which case it will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will override the simple drag behaviour for protected files &amp; move instead [ but will need Admin authentication ] . To a different volume Drag will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will move [ ie , copy , then delete the original . ] So , Opt ⌥ always copies , but Cmd ⌘ reverses the default behaviour of just dragging . Worst case scenario - you can change your modifier key &amp; check the added icon on the file you 're dragging to see your end result , right up until you let go of the mouse button . Just to complete the set - Cmd ⌘ Opt ⌥ dragging will make an Alias at the destination . edit ... &amp; after all that I realise that Preview will not adhere to that behaviour ... Move appears to not be an option at all . Best guess is that you can not move an open document &amp; even hope that an app could keep track of where it went . The Finder can . You can move the file in the Finder whilst open in Preview , but then Preview will tell you you are working on a copy &amp; you need to save a fresh version . Pretty safe &amp; sensible behaviour , really .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
You want to remove " write permission " from the file , so it can not be written to . If you block MobileMe from writing to it , you will also be blocking the application from writing to it , which could cause problems . Via the command line : From the Finder , do CMD+I ( Get Info ) , and under " Sharing &amp; Permissions " at the bottom , set it to read only . If you need to write to the file ( perhaps for the application to work properly ) , you can temporarily make it write-able , or approach this with a different solution . For example , you could use DropBox , link the file to DropBox from all your Snow Leopard computers , and just not link the file on the Lion computer .
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
Remapping a Windows keyboard so that the key positions match a standard Mac keyboard is pretty easy . Just open Keyboard Preferences , and click the Modifier Keys ... button in the Keyboard tab . This lets you change the behaviour of the keys on each attached keyboard ( make sure you select your external one from the top drop-down menu ) . To turn the Windows standard Ctrl ⊞ WinAlt configuration to the Mac standard controloptioncommand ⌘ , just change the Option and Command drop downs so they have the opposite entries ( i.e. Option performs Command and Command performs Option ) . If you want to change the physical keys , most of the premium mechanical keyboards use Cherry switches that have interchangeable key caps . You can get Mac specific modifier key sets from places like <URL> and <URL> . If you want to go nuts , you can even get a fully customized key cap set in a style similar to Apple 's keyboards , as <URL> ( looks pretty nice IMO , but I 'm sure it 's costly ) .
A popular command line e-mail clients is <URL> . Use a package manager such as Brew or Macports to install it on MacOS . Have a look at <URL> for some pointers . You can find the IMAP settings for iCloud in <URL> .
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
You can change the shortcuts from System Preferences : If you want to disable the shortcuts , edit the NSUserKeyEquivalents dictionaries directly : Then quit and reopen Chrome and Safari to apply the changes .
There is no command line access for the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client . But the free and most excellent <URL> does handle links which would let you call it from a launcher of your choice or even via on the command line . The <URL> lays out how you can use URL encoded parameters to open full-configured RDP sessions . rdp : / / URL syntax CoRD handles rdp : / / URLs , which you can use from many places inside OS X. Unfortunately , there is no way to extend Finder 's " Connect to Server " dialog , which supports launching VNC URLs , so we ca n't launch CoRD from there . If Apple changes this ( or if anybody is aware of a way to extend it ) we would love to hear about it . If you want to use urls with existing saved servers , you can ( as of 0.5.3 ) ! Just use the label in place of a hostname : New Servers From a shell ( using Terminal ) : Additional parameters can be used to start a fully-configured session via the URL : The following parameters can be set for the session via a query string ( as of 0.5.2 ) : Example Note : When using ampersands ( &amp; ) from the command line , they have to be escaped with a backslash ( ) . Colons ( :) can be used in place of ampersands for the same effect , without needing to be escaped . Passwords with any special characters in them , @ , : , &amp; , etc need to be encoded according to the <URL> Command Line Use CoRD supports the following command line options : - host - port - u - d - p - a [ 8 | 16 | 24 | 32 ] set screen depth - width set screen resolution width - height set screen resolution height Example Caveats Launching CoRD from the command line this way causes a fresh instance of CoRD to be opened . One symptom of this is multiple Dock icons . This overrides or decreases the effectiveness of many of CoRD strong points , including unified sessions , etc. . For that reason , we recommend using the open command , and rdp : / / URLs to launch sessions .
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
<URL> seems to do that by default : It 's not really drag and drop , but you could also <URL> like this :
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
end question
start question
How can I specify a custom icon for a Dock stack ?
You need to change the icon of the folder that contains the items in the stack . This can be done in several ways , but perhaps the easiest is to start by navigate to the folder of the stack , change that icon , and set the stack to display the folder instead of the contents . Click the stack , click " Open in Finder " in the stack , and then press the keystroke ⌘ + ▲ . The key press will take you " one level up " in the directory hierarchy so that you are now looking at the folder that houses the items in the stack . Next , select the folder ( If it 's not already selected ) , and " get info " on it , by typing ⌘ + I , or right-clicking and selecting " Get Info " . At the top of this window will be a miniature icon of a folder . You can click on this and copy it via the keyboard shortcut ( ⌘ + C ) , or paste in an image that you copied from somewhere else . Finally , you need to right-click on the stack and set it to display " folder " and not the stack contents .
OSX contains an unarchiver so you do n't need the equivalent of a . exe so you can extract on any machine and not be stuck as you are on a Mac when you receive a Windows self-extracting archive To archive select the files in Finder . Command-click or right-click and choose compress from the menu - you will get Archive.zip . To unzip just double click on the . zip file The tool that does the unarchiving is Archive Utility.app and understands various compression schemes <URL> including bzip2 which can be better than zip - but you need to compress using a command line tool bzip2
It 's not possible to connect it to a Mac . The <URL> says that it 's only compatible with the iPad . Note that the full product name is " iPad Keyboard Dock " . Here are some ways you can use the iPad Keyboard Dock , though : Connect the dock to your computer with the USB cable included with your iPad to sync iPad and charge its battery . Connect the dock to an electrical outlet using the iPad 10W USB Power Adapter ( included with your iPad ) to charge the iPad battery . Use the dock to hold your iPad at the perfect angle to compose email and notes using the keyboard or to watch your favorite videos or photo slideshows . Connect the dock to a TV or video projector using a compatible cable such as the iPad Dock Connector to VGA Adapter or the Apple Component or Composite AV Cable . Connect the dock to a stereo or speakers using an AV cable or a stereo audio cable to play music from iPad .
A workaround is to make an alias of the app , drag the alias to Dock and then change the icon for the alias ie . not for the actual app . Downside is that you get a small alias -- arrow added to the lower -- left corner to the icon . Make an alias Drag the alias to the Dock Change the icon like you would for any Finder item . In the following screenshot we have copied the icon of Chess app and pasted it to the newly -- made alias of Automator . ( NB , make sure you first copy the icon and then paste it ; the screenshot accidentally is showing the opposite way . )
There is no easy way to do this , but there is a little hack :) Navigate to / System/Library/CoreServices / Dock.app / Contents/Resources / Backup DockMenus.plist Open DockMenus.plist in your favorite text editor with root access Find section and add new sub-section or just <URL> my version of DockMenus.plist In plist editor file should look like this : Open Terminal and run . Right click on Finder icon in Dock - Bingo ! p.s After Dock restart ( manual relaunch or mac reboot ) you need manually remove Finder icon from Dock
<URL> offers a multi-charge/sync setup now , and apparently <URL> has one in the works . If you 're looking to build your own , the Datamation unit uses a <URL> with 16 USB ports for charging and syncing . You could integrate it into your own solution . You could also just get a 12 + port USB charger , however charging and syncing may take significantly longer this way . The Datamation site has some <URL> that support this .
If you have access to Photoshop , then I highly recommend <URL> . Back when I doing this , Iconbuilder made the creation of resources for a variety of platforms a snap .
Because it was Apple 's way of making fun of Windows . No reason other than that .
DockSpaces is nice and convenient , but annoyingly unscriptable . So , I wrote two little shell scripts , one to change to my desktop Dock and one to change to my mobile Dock . The desktop script is triggered on arrival in my Home context in <URL> , and the mobile script is triggered by departure from it . The desktop context is defined based on the presence of my external displays : Here 's how the scripts work : I save a copy of both Docks in my Documents folder ( the Dock configuration is stored in ) . When I switch from one to the other , I replace the appropriate file in my Documents folder with the current file in my Preferences so that changes I 've made to the Dock are saved . Then I copy the alternate Dock from my Documents to my Preferences . Finally , the Dock process is restarted so that the changes take effect . The Scripts : To Desktop : To Mobile :
You can use MPEG Stream Clip : <URL> Simply open the file and choose to export it from the file menu in a format of your choosing , selecting the appropriate rotation in the selection box . You can find out the current format of the video by choosing File > Show Stream Info as to match the export to the input settings if required .
You can do this -- just configure the Ubuntu virtual machine with a static IP . The choice of IP will depend on the network you 're connecting to ... You did n't mention if you were using a NAT or Bridged connection , and the choice of IP will different based on that . I can provide specific instructions if you like , but , they 'll be all things you do within the Ubuntu VM , not within the Mac environment . ( So you may find better luck asking on <URL> or <URL> ) You could also install the " avahi-daemon " package in Ubuntu and then you wo n't need to remember the VM 's IP address , you can use as if it were a Mac with Bonjour . EDIT : I see you 're using a NAT interface . I typed up a long list of instructions only got get stuck on the final step . I 'll do more research into this , but in the meantime , <URL> , but might work on the Mac side ... Here 's incomplete instructions , I will finish them up shortly : VMware Susion starts assigning IPs via DHCP at ( at least on my machine ) . The first three octets of the IPs are defined by a network probe which happened when you installed VMware , so you 'll want to determine what network VMware chose for you , and then choose an IP underneath the range VMware assigns via DHCP to avoid conflicts : Determine what network VMware chose : In the Ubuntu Virtual Machine , choose . In the window that appears , under " Network Device " , choose " Ethernet Interface ( eth0 ) " . In the list below , look for " IPv4 " . Look at the IP address in the right hand column , and make note of the first three octets ( numbers between the dots ) . On my machine , this is : Choose a new static IP : You can make up any number from 2 to 127 which will be appended to the network from step 1 , as long as it does n't conflict with any other static IPs you have assigned . Let 's say you choose 15 , because I like the number 15 . In my example your static IP would then be . Configure Ubuntu to use a static IP : Go to in the Ubuntu VM . Under " Wired " choose " Auto eth0 " and click " edit " . Go to " IPv4 Settings " and set " Method : " to " Manual " . Next to " Addresses " , click the " Add " button . In the new row that appears , under " Address " , enter the IP you close ( in my example ) . Under Netmask , enter . Under gateway , enter the first three octets of your IP , followed by . ( In my example , the gateway would be ) . Under DNS Servers , enter ... oh , crap , this is being provided by DHCP . Let me figure out a way to make this work
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
Mac Bartender I 've been struggling with this problem for quite some time as well and I think I 've finally found a good solution . I 'm using <URL> which is in free beta at the time of writing . The app has a lot of useful features for cleaning up an overflowing menubar . For each menubar icon you can choose to : Display it normally Completely hide it Display it in the menubar when Mac Bartender is activated Display it in the Bartender Bar when Mac Bartender is activated One thing to note is that it does n't let you manage the built-in OSX ' menulets ' ( wifi , sound , spotlight , etc ) yet , but that feature is coming according to their <URL> . Messy Menubar Clean Menubar Bartender Bar From the official site Take control of your Menu Bar With Bartender you can choose which apps stay in the Menu Bar , are displayed in Bartenders Bar or Hidden completely . Bartenders Bar Can be displayed and hidden as you want , by clicking on the Bartender Icon or via a hot key . Minimalism If you want a really clean look and privacy , Bartender can also be hidden . Menu Bar Apps still work the same Apps still work the same when they are in Bartenders Bar allowing you quick access to them when needed , but keep them out of sight when not . Bartenders Bar can be placed where you want Bartenders Bar can be moved at any time to any horizontal position immediately under the Menu Bar . Or it can open under the Bartender Menu Bar Icon . Show an App in the Menu Bar for 5 seconds when it updates Set up your Apps to be displayed in the Menu Bar for 5 seconds when they update . Hide Menu from left of Menu Bar to display maximum Menu Bar Apps Bartender can remove the left hand side Menu temporarily to display the maximum possible Menu Bar Apps in the Menu Bar .
Right click on the icon and select " New Window " . PS : I know what you need it for :)
I 'm running OSX under VMWare , and as long as you do n't run the VM in full screen , Display Preferences shows the screen size as the current window size , minus any host window borders . With this you can resize the window manually to get close to the resolution you require . The caveat to this is that you ca n't " set " the screen size to an exact amount , but with a bit of playing about you can get the resolution within a few pixels . You will need a monitor with a larger resolution as the VM window does take away some pixels , so if your monitor is only 1280 wide , you will never get a full 1280 width with this method .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
removes extended attributes and ACLs by default implies and ; would require is compress , uses PKZip ( zip ) instead of CPIO Setting tells to remove extended attributes and ACLs instead of creating files The files that start with are AppleDouble files ( not resource forks ) , and they are used to store extended attributes and ACLs . Extended attributes are used to store the quarantine status of files , the source URLs of files downloaded from the Internet , information about aliases ( aliases stop working if extended attributes are removed ) , Spotlight comments , the encoding of files saved with TextEdit , and so on . You can list extended attributes and ACLs with . You can remove extended attributes and ACLs recursively with
It 's not quite right , but this can be installed with <URL> and is off by a mere few pixels . <URL>
Provided it connects fine you should be ok . It uses a standard power plug with this design . <URL> Otherwise any sort of Apple Service Provider or <URL>
end question
start question
Access an iPad 's Photos via the Web or a Linux Computer ?
iCloud.com does n't have an interface to access your <URL> . However there are other ways to access the photos if you do n't have access to iTunes for syncing . <URL> The <URL> has recently been updated with a feature that can automatically upload all the new photos from your Camera Roll to Dropbox when you open the app . I believe you can even <URL> . Once the photos are in your Dropbox account , you can access them through the web interface on Dropbox.com or the <URL> . <URL> The AirSharing app ( <URL> ) is essentially a general purpose file transfer client . It supports FTP , SFTP , WebDAV , Google Docs , Dropbox and more . You can use it to transfer photos from your iPad 's Camera Roll ( or other albums ) to your Debian machine via ( S ) FTP or a WebDAV folder running on your iPad . If you prefer to avoid a cloud solution like Dropbox , this is probably the way to go . These are just a couple options , there are certainly others out there ( the <URL> app would probably work similarly to Dropbox , and there are other apps similar to AirSharing ) .
Three things are important when choosing a webcam . Resolution ( number of pixels ) Framerate Low-light quality I noticed from your previous question that you have a 13 " MacBook Pro . This is capable of displaying 720p resolution but someone on the other end of your video call may be capable of displaying 1080p or more . So the resolution you need depends on how you 're going to use it . If you 're making videos of yourself to be edited later you might like to choose a camera that 's capable of 1080p . You would need a camera with a minimum framerate of 30 frames per second ( FPS ) to get smooth video . Higher would be even better . However , be aware that some webcams will lower their resolution to obtain higher framerates so if keeping a high resolution is important you need to check what framerate the camera can sustain at each resolution . Low-light quality is something that a lot of webcams are bad at . Manufacturers may make claims about their webcams which are not true so it 's best to read reviews and try any webcams you 're considering before you purchase .
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
It 's like this : With the " Kana " setting , you can reach the different kana of one group by either " flicking " in different directions , or by repeatedly tapping one kana . With the " flick only " setting , only the flicking works , not the tapping .
On Linux , the <URL> project aims to support decoding FileVault2 . Yogesh Khatri wrote an <URL> where he suggests starting with <URL> . On Windows , the company Passware claim support for decrypting FileVault2 drives as part of <URL> . A <URL> mentions the software and highlights the feature in an included screenshot :
The <URL> is a great device for sound input and output via USB .
At the moment , you have to use iTunes to gift an application for iPad . If the application is universal , then you can gift the app with your iPhone .
If it 's an iMac 21 " / 27 " , yes you can use it as a display with the so called <URL> . You can enable it using the Cmd + F2 keyboard shortcut !
According to <URL> : For the quickest charge , connect the device to a power outlet using the USB cable that came with the device and an Apple USB power adapter . The USB spec limits the amount of current that a device may draw from a USB port ( 500 mA ) ; the included Apple standalone power adapter can supply double that ( 1 A ) . The difference is even more dramatic for devices that have higher current draw to recharge ( newer model iPads , for example ) . Generally speaking , charging from your computer wo n't affect the performance of your computer at all as long as you are n't syncing or otherwise interacting with the device . USB can supply power without requiring data transmission ( such is the case for wall adapters ) .
Select <URL> instead of a city . ( Strictly <URL> no longer exists . )
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
According to <URL> and other articles , yes , it does work ! ( And it functions just like any other audio input/output device -- with any application that supports audio in/out . )
You can do a sort of this if all your changes live in the same external stylesheet . Once you are done with the CSS tweaking , switch to the Resources panel and find the affected stylesheet resource . It should have a subtree of revisions beneath . The topmost revision is the current one , the deepest one , called " ( original ) " , is the original resource version . Right-click any revision and choose " Revert to this revision " in the popup menu ( the original version in your case ) . The stylesheet will get reverted and the revision with the changes will become the second-topmost one . You can revert to this revision once again to re-apply your CSS changes .
Not at the moment , but when iOS 7 is released later , the wishlist feature will be available using a button in the corner of the app ( <URL> )
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
This is fine ! Go ahead ! Symlinks or hard links are followed by the system , so you 're free to create them within any of those folders , or indeed the folder itself .
udev does n't exist on OS X . As an alternative , you can use the command to continuously monitor disks being mounted or ejected . The man page says Continuously display system-wide disk manipulation activity as reported by the Disk Arbitration framework until interrupted with a signal ( e.g. by typing Control-C ) . This can be useful to watch system-wide activity of disks coming on-line or being ejected , volumes on disks being mounted or unmounted , volumes being renamed , etc. . Whilst running the above command and plugging in ( then removing ) my WD Elements USB drive , I get this output , which could be parsed ( even though the man page says not to ) to find , say , and to get the volume name and when the disk was added and removed .
HP does n't make any iOS apps with this functionality , no - have you tried opening the printer 's webpage in Safari on the iPad however ? None of my OfficeJet 6500 or 4500 printers can run the scan functions from their status pages , but perhaps your model is slightly different .
No - you do n't need to get a new drive , but it 's always nice to consider getting a new drive for reliability reasons . At some point , retire the old drive to the shelf or delete it and repurpose it . The backup should ideally be more reliable than the source in terms of longevity . Even an unreliable drive can be useful though since it will protect you from user errors and is unlikely to fail at the same time as the primary source if you are primarily concerned about having two copies of the current data . One Time Machine drive can serve to hold files from many computers . Similarly , one computer can back up to multiple Time Machine drives . In the case where you migrate data from one Mac to another , the system will usually detect this and offer to " migrate " the one time series of backups so that you get two benefits : You do n't lose the space savings where each file is only saved when it changes - saving space when a dozen backup intervals contain the same file version . You do n't lose history and have to wait for all the files to back up .
First off , it 's important to note that Apple 's Remote Desktop is not Microsoft 's Remote Desktop , and the two are not interchangeable . That said , you can still use various VNC products to connect from the Windows machine to the Mac . From there , it 's standard networking . If you want to leave the Mac Mini at home , you 'll need to make sure that you can access the required ports , whether by port forwarding , or by an SSH tunnel/VPN allowing you to connect to your home network . If you bring the Mac Mini with you , then you can easily create an ad hoc Wi-Fi network to connect them both too , in which case they will be on the same network , and you can connect that way . ( You may need a monitor and keyboard attached to the Mac Mini at some point to configure this . ) Additionally , the Mac can automatically make any standard Ethernet cable into a crossover cable , such that an Ethernet cable connecting your Mac to your PC will create a network connection for the two machines , which , again , you can use as a standard network to connect from one to the other . The network can be WiFi , direct point to point ethernet , point to point thunderbolt , point to point firewire or over a wired switched network of any of the above carriers .
end question
start question
Is it possible to login via terminal in os x ?
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
Sometimes things go wonky in the preferences files and you need to delete them to get things working properly again . Once you restart the app , it will rebuild it 's preferences . Try this : Quit Terminal completely and then delete this file : ( your home folder ) / Library/Preferences/com . apple.Terminal.plist Hopefully that works for you ! If you ca n't see your library folder , follow this <URL> .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
Yes and no . It 's certainly possible to create clusters out of disparate machines and use them in some co-ordinated fashion . But it 's the realm of specialty software and specialty application programming . <URL> can take separate machines and have them act as one , large SMP machine with shared memory and all but programs need to be Beowulf compatible for this to work . There are lots of specifics to making Beowulf work well : you should use nearly identical machines and your machine interconnect fabric has to be really high speed and low latency ( read : better than gigabit ethernet ... like <URL> ) <URL> ( <URL> ) , an Apple-designed , job scheduling framework based on the BEEP framework is available for use and sits somewhere between Beowulf above and Condor/GE below . It 's a process distribution framework along with a message passing interface for distributed process co-ordination . You have to run an XGrid head node and XGrid slaves in your pool and your code needs to be XGrid-aware and complied against the XGrid libraries for it to take advantage of an XGrid . From that article linked to above : Unfortunately , Xgrid is not yet the silver bullet that can magically take an existing program such as iMovie , cut it in slices and run in on all the macs it can find in the neighborhood . The above statement is true for every technology I 'm talking about in this answer I 'm afraid . <URL> ( and <URL> ) can provide somewhat easy access to pools of machines for batch-based workloads -- you queue up jobs and these programs will take care of scheduling their execution on machines that you have joined to the pool as execution nodes -- but they do n't share CPU power across machines ( at least not without MPI interfaces in the software using them ) and they do n't share memory . The interconnect requirements are n't nearly as heavy as in Beowulf clustering and you can get away with heterogenous pools of machines as the schedulers will handle matchmaking based on job requirements . There are some off-the-shelf Mac apps that will let you do clustering in an application-specific way . For example : Logic Pro 8 and Logic 9 let you run " Logic Nodes " in your network and you can offload audio processing to these nodes . How much and what specifically you can offload is very dependent on your network and your machines but it does work . There are options in the Logic installer to create a ' Logic Node ' when you install the software and run Logic in slave mode on the instance so it can be found by a master Logic session running on another machine . This sort of one-off speciality parallelization is pretty unique in consumer and pro-sumer level applications and far from the norm though . It 's worth noting that Apple used to sell something called the <URL> . The name is somewhat misleading here . It was a hardware configuration for the Xserve , without a graphics card or an optical drive , intended to be used in cluster deployments . But the configuration did n't include any additional clustering capabilities . You still needed something like above mentioned software to create a cluster for your workloads .
Save a script like this as and make it executable with . You can then add a LogoutHook key to with . It can be deleted with . You can run a script at login by adding a LoginHook key or by using launchd . See also these questions about running scripts on <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
It seems like you could run to restart the login window process which should stop the authentication attempt . And yes , should force the remote Mac to reboot immediately .
Unfortunately , Preview can only rotate in 90 * increments and flip images . If you want to rotate a different amount , you 'll have to use a more-powerful program , like Photoshop or <URL> . From Preview Help :
This is a tough one to answer . I have seen discussions on <URL> about just this subject . And if you keep up with news online about such tings you will find that opinions vary from " Chicken Little " to , " nah , do n't worry about it on a Mac . " The truth likely lives somewhere between the two . Generally viruses of all types have a bit of a harder time on the Mac . I run without an installed virus scanner on all my Macs . But I have been working , professionally , supporting Macs since System 6 . So , with care , recent backups and an alert mind ( yeah right ... ) you are fairly safe without a virus scanner . That said I always recommend that you have a virus scanner installed and kept updated . Ransomware usually ( like many other forms of malware on the Mac ) requires that you enter a username and password to give the malware installer rights to do it 's dirty work . However there are vulnerabilities on Mac O/S that supposedly do n't require administrative authentication to root your computer . There is also malware that tries to masquerade as ransomware . A co-worker recently opened a link to a video that then infected Safari on his Mac with what looked like some malicious javascript . But starting Safari in Safe mode , resetting to defaults and then a thorough cache cleaning ( we used Onyx ) removed the so called ransomware from his Mac . he was annoyed with himself for falling for it saying , " I knew better and never should have opened that video . " Yeah that does not fully answer your questions ( parts of 1 and 3 ) but an online search for articles on ransomware on Macs and a search of MacInTouch , might help educate you further . Or maybe someone here has some more experience with it .
If you simply want no filtering &amp; wish to sort mail manually you can just disable Junk filtering altogether from Mail Prefs ... Note : That does n't actually appear to delete the Junk folder - but it does stop it being populated at all .
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
LittleSnapper keeps it 's images in special library file , so the only way to copy images is to do the long way that you described . I 'd recommend you get on the LittleSnapper discussion board over at RealMac to add your voice to the group of users who 'd also like to get at their images in a more flexible way . <URL>
I have not tried this , personally , but there are good instructions for doing so with a Tripp Lite ( née Keyspan ) USB-to-Serial adapter and an <URL> . Obviously , you can ignore the Apple II-specific parts of the instructions ( the majority of the article ) and focus on the adapter , the cable , and getting to run .
You are halfway there . Use . hushlogin and add cat / private/etc/motd to the first line of your shell 's login rc file .
Even if the creation tools are gone or hidden very well from us , you point out Lion is happy to keep running a user that has been migrated in so you can take advantage of that to get what you had back again . Lion makes it several steps with some minor " complications " - but you should be able to Migrate another user shell in and move your current data into that older style account . It 's slightly tricky to juggle the users - you 'll want a backup and need to set up a second admin account to do the move . You 'll delete the user , but not the files and import the old user ( clear the old data ) and finally move the new data into place using the old storage mechanism . You 'll need one of a running Snow Leopard system or boot disk ( to make and then migrate a FileVault 1 user ) a backup of the system from Snow Leopard days ( even if the user data is wrong - you just need the account settings and shell sparse bundle to migrate in again ) I keep an external USB drive with 15G partitions around with the last OS but no real user data . You could install Snow Leopard onto an external disk or partition and make shell user with FileVault 1 enabled or you could use any backup from your Snow Leopard time to move in another copy of your user with FV1 - and simply move the current contents into the old encrypted sparse bundle storage . Let 's start a new question if you want advice HOW to actually do this ( since it will depend on your specifics ) - this question stands well just with the simple fact that the built in tool to do this is n't available on Lion .
take a full backup to an external usb drive using a tool like <URL> or <URL> and boot it to make sure it 's good ( select disk using " Startup Disk " in System Preferences . ) You need a good backup before messing with the partitions . Using Disk Utility ( / Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility.app ) select your internal drive in the left-hand column and select the " Partition " tab in the right-hand column . Hit the " + " button under partition layout to create an additional partition . You can use the slider in the partition layout or the " Size " textbox to change the partition sizes . Hit " Apply " to confirm changes and write to disk . All partitions will be dynamically resized , presuming they pass a fsck ( filesystem check test . ) Launch the Install OS X Mountain Lion.app ( no need to bother with usb install disk creation ) and accept the license agreement . When you get to the screen showing the install disk click the " Show All Disks ... " button and select the partition you just created . Proceed with the installation as normal ( this being Apple you will not be asked for a lot of input . ) As part of the installation the installer will boot into the second partition for you . If you want you can use the Migration Assistant in the final stages of the installation to import all users and settings from your Lion partition . That 's all there is to it ! I 've done this on an iMac and a Macbook Pro so far this week with minimal problems . Only the Macbook Pro could n't pass the fsck and I needed to boot to the recovery partition to repair the root fs before I was able to shrink and create another partition . Addendum : repairing the system partition The system partition can not be resized if it does not pass a filesystem check and you can not repair the system partition while you are booted into that system so you will need to boot from an alternate one . Apple has made this very easy by automatically creating a Recovery Partition in OSX Lion and later . Reboot the system . While booting press and hold down the " option " ( aka " alt " ) key until you are presented with a list of boot devices and choose the " Recovery HD " disk . ( Alternatively press and hold [ CMD ] + [ R ] during boot to boot directly to Recovery ) You are presented with a list of utilities , choose Disk utility Now you have the familiar Disk Utility interface but on a linen background . Select your system partition from the left-hand column and select the " First Aid " tab in the right-hand column , finally click the " Repair Disk " button located at the lower right-hand side of the text box . A lot of text will scroll by in the text box . If all goes well you should end with a message telling you that " Volume repair is complete . " Now reboot ( " Apple Menu " > Restart ) and let the system boot as normal .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
Try saying : " no caps on , no space on " , then spell the word , then say " no caps off , no space off " .
should do the trick . The flag specifies any application you want , so it 's applicable to any number of situations , including ones where TextEdit is n't the default editor . Other relevant options opens in the default editor ( i.e. if you use BBEdit , TextMate , etc. ) will open the file specifically in TextEdit
The terminal multiplexing program tmux has configurable keyboard commands for selecting text for the purpose of copying and pasting . tmux is a very powerful addition to any terminal . It has a high learning curve , but if all you want to do is copy and paste you can learn how in a matter of moments and it will stay completely out of your way until you are ready to take the next step . tmux can be installed directly , or using a package manager such as Macports or Homebrew .
end question
start question
How to turn off Finder Tabs in OS X Mavericks ?
You can hide the tab bar by going to View → Hide Tab Bar .
Normally , to shut down an iPod touch : Hold down the Sleep/Wake button on top of the device . ( NOT the Home button on the front . ) Use the <URL> link below to find the manual for your device . Then " slide to power off " when prompted . I suspect you may be holding down the Home button , which invokes the Voice Command . From <URL> : How to restart Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears . Drag the slider to turn your device completely off . After the device turns off , press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo . You can <URL> for iPod touch .
You do n't get invisibility using Apple 's Messages app on OS X. <URL> , so perhaps it 's a limitation of their API and only something you can set using their web app . They get to serve you ads when you are on the web , but not on a client so perhaps that was a factor in deciding to code that function in one place over the other . Apple 's Messages app on OS X will set an invisible status for AIM accounts , but not for Google Talk , so it 's less like a Messages oversight as an account/API design issue from Google .
TextMate 2 uses a special file called to control lots of settings in the app . It will use if present for global defaults . You can also add one inside a source tree to control settings for a particular project . The setting you 're looking for is : Just add that line to ( or create it if it does n't exist ) . You can read more about this file <URL> .
You can check it via Finder . Just select the Hard Drive and press . Or Click on the Apple icon on the menu bar Select , then click on . Select Storage
I 've managed to get DBP installed on my Mac ( version 10.6.8 ) . I 've made the compiled plugin available on my blog , since compiling Gimp from MacPorts took an overnight compilation session , and is way too much hassle for folks who just want to plug-n-play . So ... anyone is welcome to <URL> as they wish . If it 's useful , please comment , and if it does n't work , please comment ; in either case if you can state versions of OS X and Gimp , that will hopefully help other users trying to avoid compiling it themselves !
Flipping Byte flip and word flip will swap bytes or words . Technically it works like this : Let 's say we have a two byte value ( hexadecimal ) : 0x3344 The number consists of two bytes , the lower one is 0x44 , and the higher one is 0x33 , so let 's put them into two imaginary cells of one byte size : Now , flip the cells : Therefore byte flipped value will be 0x4433 Same way with words , considering word consists of two bytes . Let 's assume we have a two-word value : 0x12345678 Split them into two imaginary cells , now containing one word ( 2 bytes ) each : Now , flip the cells : Therefore word flipped value will be 0x56781234 Shifting Shifting shifts values bitwise . What does it mean ? Let 's take a very simple decimal number : 5 Then , let 's convert it to its binary representation : 101 Then , let 's shift it left by 1 : We basically moved the whole binary sequence left one position and filled the empty space with zero . Now do the same , but with shifting right : our number is 10 now . The lower 1 is lost by shifting right . The zero on the left is just for display and has no value . / / Technically there 's a CPU flag which indicates that the bit was lost , but it is not relevant to the calculator . Rotating Rotating works absolutely same as shifting with one exception : bits are never lost . So , we take the same decimal value 5 and its binary representation 101 . Then we rotate it right within a byte : As you can see , the [ 1 ] which was lost on the shifting right was carried on the beginning of our byte . Same with shifting left , let 's perform series of rotations by 1 bit left until we carry one bit :
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
If you do n't have other Mail accounts with data that you want , quit Mail.app and delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , quit Mail.app , open the V2 folder inside the above path and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
You can hide the tab bar by going to View → Hide Tab Bar .
The Apple TV does n't support YouTube closed captioning . The closed captioning you 've enabled is where video files have subtitles . The same functionality was missing on the pre-iOS 6 YouTube app , so I 'm not surprised that it does n't exist on the Apple TV . If you want to submit feedback to Apple about this , you can do so <URL> .
Automator You can use OS X 's Automator.app to quickly rename batches of images . The Actions you want are : Get Selected Finder Items Rename Finder Items Using this approach you can rename files , change the case , or append/remove specific parts of the original file name . You can create <URL> using Automator to make the whole process a single drag-and-drop . Alternatively you can <URL> to rename any image dropped into a folder . To learn more about using Automator , see Apple 's <URL> .
For tabs to work in all situations , you need to enable them in System Preferences - > Dock ( set the appropriate option to " always " ) . Afterwards , you can ( in Mail ) select " File -- New window " or press Opt-Cmd-N to create a new tab .
Unfortunately , <URL> this is intended behavior . MacBooks do not support video output to external displays when running on battery power - you 'll need to plug in the MagSafe cable .
You can use Hot Corners to put your display to sleep instantly . This article on OSXDaily walks through the steps , <URL> . Launch System Preferences and click on " Mission Control " Click on " Hot Corners ... " in the lower left corner Set the screen corners you want to use to " Put Display to Sleep " Close out of System Preferences and test the Hot Corner by sliding your cursor into that screens corner
It 's not something you can do out-of-the-box , but there are ways to hack around that . This article will give details : <URL> Essentially , the trick is to create a series of scripts and use something like FastScripts ( or something like Alfred or LaunchBar ) to run the scripts .
With , upgrading all of your installed applications ( that installed with cask ) is done with a single command : This is an unofficial ( community based ) way to upgrade applications and only has free softwares on its repository ( there is no way to purchase ) . Advantages of this mechanism are : It 's scriptable It separates system applications from user applications ( your installed applications are placed in instead of ) so it 's per user . Installation of packaged installers is in the background so it does n't need user interactions . Uninstallation of applications is programmed by its community so there is no worry about remaining files after uninstallation . It 's possible to have multiple versions of applications systematically because the mechanism uses symbolic links for the latest or selected version of applications . The source of applications is kept in the cache so you can install and uninstall them without additional downloads . Disadvantages of this mechanism are : There is no differential upgrade . It downloads the whole application image ( . dmg ) or package ( . pkg ) and stores in the cache . Installation of applications is relied on symbolic links that may be not ideal ( There are two copies of an application and may be repeated in " Open with " list ) There is also official App Store mechanism ( the default ) for upgrading applications that are installed with itself and it supports differential upgrade and can upgrade all of it 's installed application with a single click ; but unlike Cask it 's not scriptable to run upgrade , installation , etc and does not keep the sources . Another mechanism is in-app upgrade check that occurs when application starts . It is different from App Store upgrade and also supports differential upgrade . I think it 's up to you to choose which mechanism to use for which kind of applications , this comparison may help you . I use the Cask for applications that is not provided in the App Store ( like VLC , OS X FUSE , OwnCloud , Weka , etc. ) and App Store for non-free applications i purchased . In-app upgrades are not suitable for me because it does not keep the source of downloaded data .
You ca n't " install " it , but you can clone an image of the OS on your laptop using Disk Utility and save it to an external hard drive , then restore that image ( also with Disk Utility ) onto your Mac mini . Even better , if you can use Target Disk Mode ( requires both Macs have either Thunderbolt or FireWire ) , you can use the same restore feature in Disk Utility to clone directly between the drives without requiring the external media/image file . This will of course wipe your Mac mini drive in the process and wo n't give you a clean install . If you 're OK with that though , then it might be an option if you really ca n't afford the download .
It 's a usability bug . You have to open the App Store , log-in , and only then will the Resume option work . To resume , you can also click " Download " on the OS X Mavericks line in the Purchases table of the App Store . Since there 's no instant feedback as to whether anything is being downloaded unless your connection is very fast , you can use Activity Monitor to check whether network download seems to be saturated . An alternative is iStat Menus ( non-free with 14 day free trial ) . There , you can not only see that data is downloaded , but you can confirm that it is the process that does the downloading .
If I remember correctly , you should be able to install Ubuntu into Boot Camp , and then virtualize it using Parallels Desktop . Works great with Windows ; most likely with Ubuntu as well .
end question
start question
Is there a way to turn off iOS 9 update reminders ?
This is kind of a yes/no question . No , most people ca n't or wo n't be bothered to turn them off . Yes - you can turn off all network access or block the update servers . The iOS 9 itself does not have a toggle you can flip and the software is designed to let you know the update is available . I 'll leave my opinion aside whether Apple designed this correctly , but from a security standpoint . If you are on iOS 9 - upgrading to patch levels does n't break existing apps and solves known security , performance , energy efficiency and bug issues , so declining a 9.0.x or 9.x update is far harder to justify than just not upgrading to 9.0 in the first place . The best technical way to block iOS 9 updates is hosted on JAMF Nation discussions : <URL> You 'll want to have control over your network , have an MDM and the energy to configure your devices to avoid updates . Basically , preventing this is a short term battle and I know it makes sense to try it from time to time or if your organization needs to buy time - but it 's a pain since the design is to push updates on each device that connects to the internet .
Yes - this is a per blog preference . I found <URL> ... Double click the blog in the main window to open settings . Click the " Editing " pane . Find the " Preview Defaults " at the bottom of that section . Here 's a picture showing that you can choose to have it off or remember the last state as well as the default option of opening .
User " Gauzy " posted this in a comment . I 'm posting it here and marking it as the correct answer : For Safari ( or any other app with a text input box , for the most part ) right click ( or control click ) the text area , goto Spelling and Grammar , and deselect Correct Spelling Automatically . Screenshot -- Gauzy
Assuming your running Snow Leopard & #x 2318 ; + space will open Spotlight which can be used to run terminal . Spotlight can be bound to another key combination but the default is similar to Windows + R.
As you state , VLC has been pulled from the app store because of incompatibility issues between its GNU license and the AppStore DRM . If you have already bought it ( even at 0 cost ) you can still use it under the same account used to buy it . Because of DRM , apps can not be shared between users , so you can not use an . ipa from other user , just your own . If its your case , VLC is available as a Cydia download for jailbroken devices . Otherwise there are good alternatives for a few bucks . You might wan na check out these : GoodPlayer ( $ 2.99 ) CineXPlayer ( $ 3.99 ) I 've used GoodPlayer and it works as expected , allowing you to play almost anything without reencoding .
I think not , only by using a hardware keyboard or via copy/paste from another doc or an app like Unicode Maps . You might be able to make a custom layout as well with Unicode Maps . Also have a look at Keyman .
According to <URL> , there is no way to turn off burst mode . This can be quite handy for catching just the right shot . However , for those of you that had learned to stabilize your camera by holding down the shutter button instead of tapping it , this can result in a lot of unexpected pictures . This feature appears to be enabled full-time whether you want it or not , so we 'll all need to simply learn to adapt . Or delete . A lot . Here are a couple of alternatives : Tap the shutter button instead of pressing it for long Use third party camera apps
You can search your contacts by partial phone number using Spotlight .
As another answer pointed out , iOS 8 <URL> , much the same way FileVault encrypts a hard drive on a Mac . The more data you have , the longer it will take to de-crypt or re-encrypt all this stuff as you toggle it . The secondary reason for this is by design : Mac OS and iOS have <URL> , as most are aware ( side note : how cool is it iOS auto-fills ' underpinnings ' after I type ' UNIX ' ?! ) . UNIX systems implement a <URL> , which is designed to resist brute-force attacks because it takes so damn long . While the effectiveness of this technique has waned as processors become faster and more powerful , it 's still noticeable as the little spinny thing on your login screen just before you log in to your Mac , which would make sitting there and typing random passwords very annoying ( read up on pam_unix if this interests the developer side of your brain ) .
My article at <URL> explains how to do this using the App store version of Evernote : Move ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support/Evernote to / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox . Create an alias of / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox/Evernote . Move the alias of / Evernote back to ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support /
<URL> For current Mac keyboard layouts . Control + Shift + Eject works for older keyboard layouts that still include the Eject key . <URL> explains some alternate solutions as well . Also , if you have " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " set to immediately in System Preferences - > Security &amp; Privacy , it will ask you for your password after doing this .
Nope . It 's not possible on any iPad or iPhone because Apple stops signing the older iOS versions after newer ones are released . It 's impossible to upgrade to iOS 7.1.2 Three options you have right now Upgrade to iOS 8.1 [ download the firmware separately and update before Apple stops signing ] Upgrade to iOS 8.1.1 from iTunes Stay on iOS 7.0.4 iOS 8.1 has jailbreak , so this could be your chance to upgrade before the window closes .
Now that the iOS 6 version has swipe-to-delete enabled , you must swipe the list 's title to move between lists . Swiping in the body wo n't work .
If I understand you correctly , then here is the way to merge multiple Sports Events calendars in to your iCAL ( calendar ) on your Mac . First choose which ones ( one by one ) and use download - Save to your Mac . Once you have them all downloaded , Open your iCal ( Calendar ) on your Mac . Under File choose Import . Locate the downloaded file and click Import . Repeat for other events calendars . In my test the result is as follows .
That is not possible using the default Mail app . It only allows you to differentiate between VIPs and regular senders ( by placing a ☆ next to VIPs ) . If you want to differentiate which account received an email within a notification , you would need to use a separate app for one of your accounts . You will then get separate notification settings for that app , and a different notification icon as well .
One quick way is on <URL> . Enter " Kairosoft " in the search box . Click on any app title link . Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click on the " Other Apps By This Developer " link . This will bring up a custom page for that developer listing all of their app titles and update info . A custom RSS feed is also generated in the upper-right corner of the screen . This feed will update for any new app releases .
Yes . Hold down on the icon that you use to open a new tab in the upper right corner of Safari and you 'll be presented with a list of recently closed tabs . Pick one to re-open . As far as I know this is an iOS 5 + feature , iPad only .
The Dock process on OS X is responsible for more than just the actual Dock on your screen . It does a bunch of background stuff , including Dashboard . Most notably , the Finder wo n't function properly if the Dock process is n't running , so turning it off completely is pretty much a no-go without breaking OS X in the process . The best I can suggest is keeping the dock hidden , and make the size as small as possible so you 're less likely to trigger it . You can also position it where it 's least likely to get in the way - as you probably know , you can put it on the left , right or bottom of your screen . But you can also pin it to a particular corner , just use the command . Type that command in Terminal ( replace with to change which corner it goes in , or to go back to the default ) , then to restart the Dock and apply the change .
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
It seems that simply unpairing it turns off Activation Lock . Before you send your Apple Watch in for service , sell it , or give it away , you should turn off Activation Lock on your Apple Watch . Just unpair your Apple Watch from your iPhone : Keep your Apple Watch and iPhone close together . Open the Watch app on your iPhone and tap the My Watch tab . Tap Apple Watch , then tap Unpair Apple Watch . Enter your Apple ID password . If you forgot your Apple ID password , you can reset it . Tap again to confirm . If you ca n't access your iPhone or Apple Watch , or if your Apple Watch is n't paired with your iPhone and you need to turn off Activation Lock : On a computer , go to iCloud.com . Sign in with your Apple ID , and open Settings . Under My Devices , click your Apple Watch . Click X next to your device . Click Remove to confirm . <URL>
end question
start question
How do I get my calendars back ?
Go to your account settings , delete your iCloud account , reboot , add it again .
Yes , it should work . All music she has bought is under Purchased in Quick Links menu in iTunes Store in latest iTunes . It can be redownloaded from there .
It turns out the issue for me is that OSX has created 2 entries in the Calendar app for my Gmail account ( even though I only have the account entered once under the Internet Accounts system pref ) . The Calendar app wo n't let me delete the duplicate since it thinks the duplicate is managed under the Internet Accounts pref . Deleting and re-adding the gmail account in Internet Accounts did n't help either . After deleting the Internet Account , the duplicate still sticks around in the Calendar app is not deletable since the Calendar app ca n't delete it , and there is no corresponding Internet Account for that calendar . I got around the issue by un-checking the " Enable this account " checkbox for the duplicate in the Calendar app ( since it wo n't let me delete it ) . That at least makes it stop checking for calendar updates so I do n't get pestered for passwords .
I know its over a year later , but I had the same question , and then figured out the answer myself . Open terminal and type Then you can have it enabled system wide , and just disabled for chrome . By the way , this works for any app , just replace com.google.Chrome with the bundle identifier of the target app . If your interested in how it works , the AppleEnableSwipeNavigateWithScrolls is the global setting , that can be overwritten for any specified app . Hope this helps someone in the future .
Having the schools certificate is sufficient to deploy the app on the device . After turning off the simulator , or simply unplugging the device from the machine , the application will stay on the device for further use . There is no further configuration that needs to be done . However , you will not be able to deploy the app to the store UNLESS you have the rights to do so ( which most students do not ) .
When MobileMe upgraded calendars - it removed the group option . iCloud does not have a folder/group data structure . <URL> does let you create groups to manage your local view of iCloud ( and other ) calendars , but does n't change iCloud 's limitation to not have those groups appear on the server end of things . Their blog is an excellent source to get clear and well prepared discussion on the changes MobileMe has made as well as how iCloud is different .
<URL> Contact customer support via e-mail and hopefully you can get a refund .
On Lion/Mountain Lion , go to the Preferences on your Contact app , choose Accounts and then On My Mac , and there should be a checkbox Synchronize with Google , you will just need to provide your Gmail credentials . Just as a precaution , make a backup of your contacts first . Just need to go to Gmail , select Contacts , then the More button , Export to download all your contacts to your hard drive .
Here is the contents of my / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / com.apple.mDNSResponder.plist from OS X 10.9.1 : It 'd probably be worth running a permissions repair after restoring the file .
Apparently this is possible : Okay , the Google instructions are n't what I would call stellar for this particular setup procedure but they are correct . It 's as simple as going to m.google.com , then logging in if necessary , choosing iPhone , and finally choosing the Calendars you want to Sync with your iPhone . It worked for me for 2 Calendars . Hope this helps ! Complete Google 's instructions Open Safari on your iPhone Navigate to m.google.com Select ' Sync ' Select your device Check the boxes next to the Calendars you want to sync ( It will only let you choose 5 total , including the " US Holidays " one ) Click ' Save . ' via : <URL>
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
Go to <URL> and register . Then <URL> and <URL> . This will then connect to <URL> and update your DNS information whenever your Mac is connected to the internet . You could then use SSH or other means to log onto your Mac from an iPhone or other computer/Mac by connecting to the URL ( e.g. - mymacbook.dyndns.com ) you select upon registering on dyndns.com . There are another couple of steps . You need to get your broadband router to forward traffic coming in on specific ports to your Mac . You should be able to find a how-to on <URL> for your router model . You also need to setup a static IP for your Mac which is best done on your router . Your routers documentation should tell you how to do this .
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
Plugging in headphones used to be the quick and dirty way to assure silence ( back in the PPC hardware days ) . Now , the self test startup chime still uses the internal speaker whether or not the headphone jack is in use , but the below trick will work on older macs . It is of use with new macs as long as you do n't set your mac to reboot automatically and you do n't forget about the current behavior and reboot it yourself . I have a snipped nub of a headphone jack that I use when I am in a place where noise is prohibited no matter what the software decides . You can get a plug without any cord for less than $ 5 at a store such as Radio Shack if you do n't have headphones you can sacrifice or the cut cord does n't please you . It 's simply not possible to change the NVRAM mute/volume setting after the mac is shut down ( or sleeping ) so even if you prepare properly , sound will be made if things do n't go as planned on the shutdown .
It 's rather easier than these solutions . Click the icon view beside the search and select the Albums tab at the top so the icons show albums rather than Artists or Composers . Then when you hover over an album you can click " Play Album " to play it . You can also double click the album to see all the songs making sure they are ordered by song number ( if necessary ) . This way you can also by command or shift clicking select multiple albums . Or you can show with the second icon ordered by album by artist . In this view an artist search will help :
Have you tried extracting them from your back up file ? See this <URL> .
In Calendar.app , you can right-click on any calendar , and choose Get Info . From here you can select Ignore Alerts
Regardless of the state of the Mac , holding down the power button will always kill it and allow you to cold boot . Make sure you 're holding the power button down long enough -- hold it down longer than you think is necessary .
I answered a similar question <URL> . You can summon the Dock on a different display by dragging the cursor to the bottom of it 's display , and then continuing the dragging down motion for a second or so . Is it possible that this is occurring when you inadvertently perform that action ?
As far as I know AppleTV has no capabilities for this . What I 've done is simply to take a photo of the TV screen .
end question
start question
Confused about Compressed option in Disk Utility ?
When you create an image and you select Compressed , you are doing so at the sake of speed and read/write capability To access the data on a compressed image , you have to uncompress it first ; that takes cycles ( cpu time ) . Secondly , <URL> , the image is read only , not read/write so you will lose that capability as well . The " Compressed " format is great for archival of data , not for daily access .
Yes . Go to System Preferences → Spotlight and uncheck the box for the Spotlight window keyboard shortcut . Alternatively , replace the shortcut with a different shortcut . You can also enable/disable/modify the shortcut through System Preferences → Keyboard → Spotlight → Show Spotlight Window :
Wireless is a complicated topic and you need to consult a speciality website like smallnetbuilder.com if you want to understand things like range , performance , and capabilities of different routers . The Apple Extreme/Express are more expensive , require an Apple utility that runs only on iOS/OS X/Windows , and are not the most feature rich . However , they are simple to use if you live in a mostly Apple world and have some unique Apple features that can be useful in that world . For example , it 's dead simple to wirelessly extend an Extreme/Express network and Apple Express routers can be hooked to speakers to use with AirPlay . I just used three Expresses to replace an old 802.11 g network ( it used four old Linksys routers wirelessly extended to get about 50 % coverage ) at a friend 's condo . It 's only a single floor with about 2500sf but the walls are all steel-reenforced concrete so wireless range was extremely limited . It took all of about 10 minutes to install three units and network them with a single SSID and WPA password . I would have preferred wired connections but it was n't a practical option due to the construction . I ca n't see much advantage to the Extreme over the Express with the current models unless you want to use the gIt might have better antennas and thus better performance but I think that 's an edge case . It also may have some additional features so you 'd need to do a feature-by-feature comparison .
Indeed , this appears to no longer be possible without 3rd-party software . Adding the same preference key to the new app seemed to not make any difference - it appears that this ability has been removed from the app . As you mentioned , KeyRemap4Macbook would work with the private.xml that you linked to .
You can use the standard that the Mac OSX comes with to find pmtu . shoud do the trick . Please note , the size is just the ICMP datagram payload size . To see the IP MTU , you need to add 8 bytes of the ICMP header and 20 bytes of the IP header ( so for example , to send 1500 Bytes long IP packet , you need to specify size as 1472 ) . Please note , is important here , as it sets the Dont-Fragment flag on . You can also use to run a ping sweep . This pings your host with packets starting from up to in increments . Again , same rule applies to your sizes - these are just for ICMP payload ( so you need to add 28 Bytes to the size specified here for the full IP MTU size ) . What you 're looking for is an ICMP unreachable message back with a " Fragmentation needed but Do n't Fragment flag on " sub-type back . The IP address of the sender of the above ICMP message is the host or router which has its MTU set to lower than the size of your packet , on the link which it would use to forward your packet further towards the destination . Please note as well , that sometimes ( badly misconfigured ) firewalls or traffic filters will block all ICMP messages and in such case , you 'll just see no response . To test which host dropped the packet , you could run traceroute to your destination and then repeatedly ping every hop on the way with ' - D' and a size or a sweep to discover the local MTU of the link that hop is connected to . It will be the link between the last host you can ping and the first host you ca n't that will have a smaller MTU . Again - this is all subject to routers handling ICMP , which they might not . The PMTUD ( Path MTU Discovery ) protocol works in the same fashion . It uses TCP packets with DF flag on . The TCP sessions endpoints agree on their MSS ( Maximum Segment Size , which is MTU less IP and TCP headers , 40B ) - they choose the smaller of the MSS values advertised by each host in the TCP handshake . Then they send all traffic with DF flags on , and wait for the ICMP unreachable or a TCP ACK . The latter means the PMTU is sufficient , the former mean they need to drop MSS . Hope that helps !
<URL> You can use netspot to basically create a ' map ' of your location , and see network information around you . It will show you areas that network connectivity may suffer . You can then revisit the data points to possibly determine better locations for your router , or where the worst offending networks are to better decide which channels to use .
I ended up going with <URL> . Created a sparse-image disk via for about 100GB . Formatted it as a ZFS file system by following the instructions in the <URL> section . Turned compression ' on ' in ZFS via I tried booting a Windows XP VM off the ZFS file system and it worked . ZFS reports that it achieved a compression ratio of about 1.32 x ( which means my 10GB VM takes up about 6.6 GB on disk ) . Not sure how well VMWare will play with ZFS 's compression under high load , but it seems to working well so far .
Both <URL> and <URL> can clone and omit files or directories from the clone .
I use following to prevent Captive networks Change : File Name to in System/Library/CoreServices Make note of this so you can change it back one day if you need to . This will not delete cookies you already have but will stop getting more of them .
My personal recommendation is <URL> for a small price and the ability to create archives . A free alternative is <URL> but this is limited to archive extraction only .
There are commercial programs that specialize in sync ' ing folders between systems . The one I use is Synk Pro , found at <URL> . Synk Pro allows either folder sync or Master - > Slave copying , so that one folder is designated as the primary repository . Synk Pro can also remain running while the computer is on , keeping designated folders in sync . But there potential problems synchronizing home accounts across different machines . The first one that comes to mind is ~ / Library/Preferences , which stores the default setup information for your system : some of the settings may not work properly on different machines . The Mail folders in ~ / Library could easily lead to data loss : if you update Mail on both systems inadvertently , then synchronizing the folders could result in overwriting messages in one folder with different contents . This can be avoided if you only retrieve mail on one system , and copy that Mail setup to the other machine . If you only synchronize user folders , like Documents and Downloads , most of such pitfalls are avoided . There are also companies that provide data file sync through the internet , by copying your files to their servers , and then copying from their servers to the other systems you select , and authorize by password . Two examples of these are Dropbox and www.sugarsync.com . These services can not guarantee synchronization if you have the same file open on two machines , however . There are some programs designed to work with Dropbox , that allow changes made on one computer to automatically show up on another machine ; for example , 1password or TextExpander . But many programs are not so designed : Apple programs like Pages and Numbers will not work this way . You must close the file on all machines before the file can be sync ' ed . And it should have been opened on only one machine at a time . And these services require $ $ per year for large amounts of content . Dropbox provides free accounts for up to 2 GB of data , so you could try their service for free to see if it meets your needs . It has been very reliable for me . SugarSync is designed to sync files through the internet and provide offline backup . It has been working well after some initial problems , when their Mac program was still in beta . Both these services allow you to sync files to Windows based machines also . And both allow retrieving previous file versions from their servers . Note that if a machine has been shutdown , it may take a long time to complete the updates over your internet connection . My desktop remains running even if I am away from my desk .
Yes and no . The newer iOS devices have internal temperature sensors and will let you know when the internal temperatures are so high that damage is of concern . You basically get locked out of the device until it 's cool enough to run again . As long as the sensor is working , it is safe to use the device up until it shuts itself off . This protection should cover you from charging or operating the device and causing harm to the components in the short term as well as drastic long term damage to the battery . If you are concerned about the <URL> - then yes , do worry about temperature . At 0 ° C - you can expect to lose between 2 and 6 % of the capacity per year depending on the average charge in the battery ( the lower is at 40 % average charge - the higher is 100 % average charge ) . If the temperature is 25 ° C - these losses jump to 4 % to 20 % capacity loss . If you store/use the phone for one year at 40 ° C which most people would consider very hot to hold - the losses in capacity are 15 % to 40 % annually . Charging the battery this hot or hotter is even worse for the health of the battery . So , a few times of limited use under 40 ° C should n't be of concern , but leaving it in a very hot car ( > 50 ° C ) can be very damaging if it 's charging or there for hours or days . Whenever you can keep it cooler , and not fully charged for long periods of time , your battery will degrade less over time . You can weigh the need to use the battery when warm with the eventual replacement cost of $ 79 if you should ever just need a battery swapped out by Apple .
Currently , no , your only option is to upgrade to iOS 7 . This is because <URL> and the <URL> shows iOS 7 as the only signed version . Note : Lookup the signing status ( or get the direct download links ) for <URL> .
After fiddling with making my own solution via manipulation , I discovered the DTrace script ( ) . This really seems to do the trick with regards to giving samples of filesystem activity at nice updated intervals and quickly allows one to isolate possibly misbehaving processes . * NOTE : you must run it with or as user . For example : Options :
files are disk images , similar to an file . You can think of them like a virtual CD . You put it into the CD drive ( mount it ) , and its contents appear on your computer . When used for software downloads , they are simply a way to bundle up files , like in a ZIP archive . Their advantage is that it 's possible to customize the design ( e.g. Finder window background and icon positions , see example below ) . The actual program is in a special bundle or package directory with the usually invisible extension . It contains an application 's resources , like image files , and the actual binary ( the " equivalent " ) that is executed when you start the program . If you want to compare it to a Windows equivalent , the closest would probably be the folder in created by a program 's installer . To install such an application from a disk image , you drag and drop it to your hard drive , e.g. the directory . That 's what a lot of disk images try to convey in their disk image design : You grab the application , Adium in this case , and drag it onto the Applications folder :
DOE is a method to wipe disks , developed by Department of Energy as part in their manual to ensure the confidentiality of Department of Energy information . From <URL> : When Disk Utility uses the DOE-compliant 3-pass secure erase , it will write two passes of random data and then a single pass of a known data pattern . This will take anywhere from a day to a week or more , depending on the size of the drive . You can run this stress test in the background while you use your Mac for other activities .
From the <URL> : Sparse bundle disk images appear as a single file but are actually stored as a folder with many files inside . This makes it more efficient to back them up using Time Machine or other backup utilities , as only the changed parts need to be copied . Additionally , sparse bundle disk images work well with the Compact Image ... command . Compatible with Mac OS X 10.5 and later . Sparse disk images are stored as a single file . This can make backups inefficient for large disk images , because the entire file must be copied each time . The Compact Image ... command generally does not reclaim as much disk space as with sparse bundle disk images . Compatible with Mac OS X 10.3 and later .
With regards to your question , there does n't seem to be a way to mount it at a specific point , hover to mount it at boot , have you looked at the <URL> application ? Make RAM Disk is an application that provides an easy way to create , format , and mount a RAM disk in one shot . If you add the application to your Login Items it will automatically create the RAM disk at each boot . PS : Tested this on OSX Lion without any issues . For completeness sake the following is from the Readme File : How do I use it ? Just run it . By default , it creates a 64-MiB RAM disk named " RAM Disk " . Can I have it create a RAM disk on startup/login ? Yes . Add it to your Login Items in the Accounts pane of System Preferences . How do I get rid of the RAM disk ? Click on the Eject ( ⏏ ) button next to its name in the Finder 's sidebar . Alternatively , use Disk Utility ( in / Applications/Utilities ) to eject it . I want to create a bigger or smaller RAM disk or to create it with a different name . How do I do that ? Hold down the Option key while launching Make RAM Disk ; it will present a window wherein you can change the size or name of the volume . If the " Save settings for next time " checkbox is checked , the settings you enter here will be saved ( obviously ) ; if not , they are forgotten just before quitting . Remember : the Option key for the Options window . Can I change the options without actually creating a RAM disk ? Yes . As long as the box is checked , the options will be saved , whether you create a RAM disk or not .
Try saving something like this as <URL> : I 'm not sure , but it might not work if you do n't have another keyboard with an option key connected . If does n't work , you can see the <URL> in the source and the hexadecimal key codes with <URL> . The test folder has an <URL> with all the predefined remappings .
BootChamp requires you to input the administrator password at its first use , but after that it allows you to restart without asking you for the password again . Unless you child is tech-savvy enough to get into Keychain , I think BootChamp may be exactly what you 're looking for . It 's also very easy on system resources . After installation , you could reboot into Windows yourself , giving BootChamp future permission by inputting your admin password . From then on he 'll be able to change OSs without having admin access . I have had BootChamp crash a couple of times , usually when I plug in a USB device or remove one without using OS X 's remove function . I 've been running it for several months with only five or so instances , so it 's pretty rare , but something to consider . Cheers !
end question
start question
Why BlueTooth is activated after updating the iOS ?
Apple turns on Bluetooth because of iBeacon . Also , as previously mentioned by @Andrew Larsson , AirDrop is also a major reason . See here for more details : <URL> A quick Google search reveals many interesting results : <URL>
Booting to Internet Recovery Mode boots directly to a netboot image provided by Apple/Akamai servers . The netboot image is a stripped down OS X version which only provides some diagnostic tools and a tool to either restore OS X or a Time Machine backup . The downloaded OS is completely loaded to RAM and nothing is written to hard disks . After shutting down/rebooting the Mac the RAM is wiped and everything has to be downloaded again if you want to start to Recovery Mode a second time . To create a Recovery HD on your Mac you have to install OS X ( Restore OS X ) . While downloading and installing OS X a recovery partition will be built also . Another option is to set up a Mac running Server.app and <URL> . That will keep a copy of the recovery image locally in cache and speed up the download - perhaps 100x as fast if you have a gigabit speed network locally .
I was going to chalk it up to the developer just being lazy and selecting the default value and tab-completing when creating their app . However , I tried it out for myself ( create a new iOS app project , edit the file and add the following new row ) : You can see that the first auto complete option for mode is , meaning the developer had to consciously choose the second option for it to be right sided as in your app . This supports stuffe 's conjecture that this is done because most users are right handed . The screenshot above are the options for iPad . The iPhone has the same set , except for the second one , which is absent . AFAIK , Apple does n't advocate the use of a specific orientation as a default . Their <URL> only say the following re : <URL> Launch your app in your supported orientation , regardless of the current device orientation . For example , if your game or media-viewing application runs in landscape only , it 's appropriate to launch your app in landscape , even if the device is currently in portrait . This way , if people start your application in portrait , they know to rotate the device to landscape to view the content . Support both variants of an orientation . For example , if your application runs only in landscape , people should be able to use it whether they 're holding the device with the Home button on the right or on the left . And , if people rotate the device 180 degrees while using your application , it 's best if you can respond by rotating your content 180 degrees . On iPad , strive to satisfy users ' expectations by being able to run in all orientations . The large iPad screen mitigates people 's desire to rotate the device to landscape to " see more . " And , because people do n't pay much attention to the minimal frame of the device or the location of the Home button , they do n't view the device as having a default orientation . This lack of awareness of an app 's default orientation leads people to expect apps to run well in the device orientation they 're currently using . As much as possible , your application should encourage people to interact with iPad from any side by providing a great experience in all orientations . So as you can see , they do n't advocate for any particular orientation and encourage the developer to support all orientations . Also see <URL> . However , <URL> uses an example with code for right-oriented apps ( i.e. , home button on the right ) . So another explanation -- apart from the developer 's own UX inclinations -- is a copy-paste effect :)
I have to remove a PGP plug-in from / Library/Mail/Bundles to get the Mail App running again . Just open Mail and immediately open Accounts , disable the accounts one by one to find out which one is causing the crash . Then delete this account completely and restart Mail . Then add the account all over again . It worked on my gmail account .
it 's a bug they introduced in iOS6 . drives my crazy . Hope they fix it soon . No easy way to tell Apple they have a bug , unless you sign up to their developers program
The magnet can save your computer . Let 's suppose it 's on a table connected to AC . If someone pull the cable with his foot by just walking by , the MacBook wo n't fall on the floor , the magsafe will just pop .
I do n't mind the alert or warning , but I do mind the weeks of having a blinking icon in my Menubar . Here 's what I did in Terminal : This replaces the low battery icon with the same connected icon . I assume the icon is still " blinking " in that it 's switching one for the other , but since they 're now the same , you do n't notice . Now I get the 20 % , 10 % , 5 % alerts , but no annoying blink . This is in Lion . It 's likely that system updates and perhaps even Mountain Lion will undo this , but it can probably be reapplied after updates are performed . For Mountain Lion , the relevant files are named :
This question was answered by updating to iOS 7.1 . I 've since turned all the features of the phone back on ( e.g. , background app refresh , notifications , use my location , all the processes that I tuned off trying to troubleshoot ) and my phone just lasted three days with normal use .
<URL> on the <URL> led me to <URL> where people discuss this issue in relation to an application called Cinch . In the <URL> about this on the apple forums , people mention several other applications that might be causing this issue too . What is causing this issue ? From what I can gather , this issue seems to be related to applications using Event Taps ( an API that lets applications directly listen for keyboard and mouse events ) . I think there is either A ) a bug in OS X where Event Taps sometimes stop working for whatever reason , or B ) application programmers consistently have a hard time using Event Taps correctly . What can I do about it ? If this is indeed caused by an OS X bug ( this seems the most likely to me ) , this issue ca n't be fixed completely by end users . There is one thing you can do that might make it happen less frequently though : In the <URL> , there is a <URL> that lists all running applications that have Event Taps open . It looks like this : I figure that the more applications you are running that have an Event Tap open , the more often you 'll end up with a clogged Event Tap somewhere , and you 'll have the spaces issue happen more often as a consequence of this . So , if you 're having this issue , try running as few of the applications that show up in EventTaps.app as you can . For whenever the issue does happen , kill the Dock using whatever method you find most convenient . I keep the AppleScript snippet that Chris R posted in <URL> in an . app on my Desktop , and run it whenever spaces locks up .
A new package was developed to disable A2DP and I can confirm it works . <URL>
You can do so in System Preferences . Open the Bluetooth panel , select your Magic Mouse and click the cog wheel at the bottom to select " Rename " from the context menu .
I get that problem sometimes too on my iPhone 4 , especially if I 'm updating an app and I lose network coverage . Here 's what I 'll usually do , either : Sync with iTunes Restart my phone by holding down the power and home buttons . Either of those fixes the problem for me .
There is a website ( <URL> ) . But this will only work with iOS < = 5.0.1 .
I have now gone ahead and clicked " Update All Contacts " for Facebook . Here are my empirical findings : After about 30s it said 405 contacts updated I examined my contacts and could see Some contacts on that iPad got photos from Facebook No existing photos were overridden . On lots of contacts a " Facebook " entry was created . I guess this indicates that they are my friends on facebook . When I click such an entry , the Facebook app opens . However , it opens on the standard newsfeed . It does not open anything connected to that particular person . Is this a bug ? No photos were synced to Google or other iDevices . The photos did not appear in Google Contacts . They did not even appear on other iDevices set up syncing with Google Contacts . ( I did the update on an iPad and my iPhone was not updated ) . The " Facebook " entry was updated on other iDevices . I could not find any evidence that any new contact cards were created . No new Google Contacts were created . I do have some Facebook friends that were not in contacts , and they did not show up in contacts afters " Update All Contacts " .
To fix this problem , I got my iPad charger ( which was disconnected from any power source such as a wall outlet ) , and plugged it into my iPhone , and unplugged it twice . This process fixed the iPhone .
I have been running Mavericks for about two weeks and I have n't noticed any apps that were deleted during the install . Some of Apple 's apps may be updated during the upgrade , but I 'm not aware of anything that gets deleted .
The problem got partially better on its own , and it 's not clear why . There were also a lot of old networks in the list of previous wifi networks in System Preferences , and it helped to delete them . The complete fix , however , ended up being to go into the list of wireless networks ( in System Preferences > Networks > Airport , Advanced ) and move the desired network up to the top of the list so it was joined first . There was one called " linksys " on top that was matching a neighbor 's network , and then failing to get internet access for some reason ; I think it was added a long time ago for a different network of the same name . I thought I had tried this before , but either something changed or I did n't actually try it . I 'm asking this question to help me troubleshoot someone else 's computer , so I 'm not aware of everything that might have changed since I originally posted the question .
This bug is known to the Chrome developers and has been filed under ... <URL> : Dictionary keyboard shortcut does n't work in Lion Basically the problems are timing issues for some websites which take too long to respond to information needed to show the dictionary . This is what resek@chromium.org says : There 's likely not much that we can do here . We have to block the UI thread to implement this feature , which is bad and so that 's done on a timeout . If the web page takes too long to respond for the information we need to display the popup , we give up and unblock the UI . If we did n't do this , Chrome would look like it 's hung , waiting on the web page to respond . We collect timing information about this , and most pages succeed well below the timeout , but there 's also some class of pages that do not respond in time ( more than 1500ms , which is what starts to be perceived as sluggish/hung ) .
I imagine this is the case : iPhone and iPad are using an integrated chipset ( like this : <URL> ) supporting both Wifi and Bluetooth . And as both of them are on the same chip the manufacturer could be just incrementing the MACs . However the question is why you ask this - if you want to use this information to check if it 's the same device : do n't , as there is no guarantee that it will always be this way .
Try typing this into terminal : This should output details about which jar file is open in the runtime . Alternatively , to find out which applications are using the Java Runtime select java in the activity monitor and clicking on the blue i icon . Click and see if it gives you a clue which application launched the java environment . You 'd be surprised which applications depend on Java ! You could also try going into the Java System Preference , clicking the Java Tab and choosing . You 'll see a list of registered Java applications that might help you find the culprit .
end question
start question
Disable trackpad handwriting keyboard shortcut without disabling Chinese keyboard input ?
I could n't find a way to disable it either , but if you click on the shortcut key combination , you can change it to something you 'll never press . ( I used shift-control-option-command-space )
With iOS 4 and above , you can pair a Bluetooth keyboard to the phone . That 's the hardware keyboard for which you 'd be specifying the layout .
⌘ R or ⌘ ↩ reveals an item in Finder ⌘ I shows an information window ⌘ Y shows a Quick Look window ⌘ D selects a dictionary result ⌘ B selects a web search result ⌘ K selects a Wikipedia result ⌘ T selects the top result ⌘ , opens Spotlight preferences Holding command shows a preview popover Holding option and command shows the full path of a file in a preview popover ⌘ ↓ moves to the next section and ⌘ ↑ moves to the previous section ⌃ ↓ , end , or page down selects the last item
In System Preferences , go to Keyboard " Keyboard Shortcuts " Services Find the service on the list . To the right of the service name , double-click . Enter the desired shortcut .
Turns out I had an old version . The new , officially Lion compatible version from the <URL> works fine .
<URL> ( 4 USD ) Based on your description , QuickRes appears to perfectly accomplish what you 're trying to do . You can set multiple ( up to 8 ) resolutions in its preferences and assign keyboard shortcuts to them . To access preferences , launch QuickRes and Ctrl-click ( right-click ) the icon that will appear in the menu bar . Note that Mac will give you an error and claim that it is from an " unidentified developer " ; simply Ctrl-click the app 's icon in Finder and click open . Screenshots are below : QuickRes options . Click Preferences . Also , after you set resolutions , you may simply click this icon normally to toggle between resolutions . Resolutions pane of QuickRes preferences . You may add more preferred resolutions in " Advanced . " Also , because this was taken on an iMac , you will have different resolution options for your MacBook Pro Retina . Shortcuts pane of QuickRes preferences . Right now , my shortcut is Command-Option-R . You can change this , of course . In the Advanced pane , you can set how many resolutions you wish to toggle . The shortcut only works when you have QuickRes open ( it 's a lightweight app , so do n't worry about resources ) , so I would recommend selecting " Open QuickRes on Login " to get it out of your way .
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
Open the Settings app . Tap on General . Tap on International . Tap on Keyboard . Tap on Add New Keyboard . Tap on Emoji . To switch to it on the keyboard , tap the globe icon between and the microphone icon . I 'd say that 's easier than downloading a third-party anything on Android . Plus it was included already 2 years ago with iOS 5 .
I did not test this myself , as I do not have a Bluetooth keyboard , but I 've seen a few article stating that to send an email you could type CMD - Shift - D.
You could do it with a script ... or you could hit CMD+T ab and while holding CMD hit " q " over and over . It will cycle through your apps and quit them one by one pretty quickly .
Are you using Keyboard Maestro 6 ? According to their <URL> , ctrl + tab is for windows switcher . I do n't have keyboard maestro , but if you can disable the window switcher , that will fix it . Alternatively , follow <URL> to re-replace that shortcut . I 'll copy and paste that here , with a few differences for your case : Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Application Shortcuts Then , click the " + " button . Select your browser as the Application on the Window that pops up . Type Select Previous Tab , or whatever it says under Window > Select something tab . in the ' Menu Title ' field . Then , press ctrl + tab to set the shortcut and click ' Add ' to save .
I am sorry to say that I am unaware of any apps ( jailbroken or otherwise ) that add keyboard navigation to the iPad . According to <URL> , the following shortcuts do work : ⌘ C Copy selected text ⌘ X Cut selected text ⌘ V Paste ⌘ Z Undo ⌘ shiftZ Redo ⌘ ↑ Go to top of document ⌘ ↓ Go to bottom of document ⌘ ← Go to start of line ⌘ → Go to end of line ⌘ ⌫ Delete to end of line ⌥ ⌫ Delete previous word F1 Make screen dimmer F2 Make screen brighter F7 Skip back one song F8 Play or Pause Music F9 Skip forward one song F10 Mute Volume F11 Decrease Volume F12 Increase Volume ⏏ Show or hide onscreen keyboard
By default , no , there 's no keyboard shortcut to activate Finder . <URL> can do this though :
<URL> can change key combinations like control + c to command + c everywhere : You can add your own settings in <URL> . See the source for the <URL> and <URL> . You can change text editing shortcuts by creating a DefaultKeyBinding.dict . See <URL> and <URL> . Related questions : <URL> <URL>
Will do it for you . Then you can edit the individual keys from there . The details are extracted from : <URL> You can modify the above file as per : <URL> However note the file is binary and you can not use a text editor , you have to use the command , or the command . can be used if you know the individual keys you want to modify . is more user friendly .
According to Apple 's <URL> : Page Up key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Up Arrow key . Page Down key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Down Arrow key .
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
Save in AppleScript Editor and assign a shortcut in <URL> or <URL> :
IDLE > Preferences ( cmd + , ) > Keys > goto-line > Get New Keys for Selection
The service shortcuts are stored in pbs.plist and can be modified like this : Source : <URL> = control , = alt , = command ; replace with the name of the service
end question
start question
How can I ensure that my iPod Classic lasts as long as possible ?
The battery is your primary concern - it is a consumable part . You may only get 300 to 500 complete charges before it will not take a useful charge . Additionally , as a Lithium Polymer battery with no adaptive charging , it fades every year once it 's made . The lower the average temperature , the less it fades . Try to always keep it less than 75 degrees and time above 95 is exceptionally bad for long term health ( think 20 % loss of capacity in one year ) . Even if you store it perfectly , you can expect to lose 25 % capacity within 3-4 years . For long term storage , it 's best to charge it to just above 50 % and let it self discharge down to maybe 40 or 35 % and then charge it back up to over 50 . Having it always full is n't the best - but you also want to use it , so just assume you will pay for a battery sooner or later . You have to decide - do you want a museum piece that is under perfect storage conditions ( battery not too full and not too empty - both of which are bad ) ? The extremes can damage a battery significantly - damaging the chemistry : totally low voltage - drained past all the low limits ( leaving it in a drawer when discharged ) excessive heat past 115 F is also very bad - even for a few hours The rest of the failures are more about chance of random failure since you wo n't be dropping it or crushing it :-) The hard drives in 4G and older iPods were designed for occasional use , so running them in disk mode or running a mac on an OS installed on the iPod was likely to cause them to fail after months or years of that use . You might avoid running an OS - but for normal syncs and play , the drive spins down most of the time and this should n't be a big concern . Physical shock when the hard drive is spinning would of course be bad . I suppose the spring in the headphone jack would rather be out than in ( some tiny amount of less stress ) - but also less duty cycles is also good . I say , as long as you wo n't jam the plug / crush the internals - leaving it in all the time might be better than always putting it in/out/in / out . You 've got 5 years of swap service from Apple and you can always get a <URL> if it ever dies , knowing that Apple will seal a new case in the factory . Any <URL> can result in a bent/damaged or less than perfect case seal ( As hard as it is to open them , the latest classics are even harder to close again properly than the old ones that you could use a nylon spudger or a flat razor blade to crack open . ) Good luck ! I plan to get one of the last classics - once they go on sale as a discontinued product and treat it with kid gloves .
In System Preferences > Sharing , click " Internet Sharing " on the left . In the " Share your connection from " menu , choose " Wi-Fi , " and then in the " To computers using " list , choose " Bluetooth PAN . " Then check the box next to " Internet Sharing " in the list on the left to enable it . ( The options in the screenshot are only greyed out because you ca n't change them once Internet Sharing is on ) .
Select Netbeans in Finder , right click and press " Get Info " ( or press Cmd ⌘ - I on the keyboard ) . In the window that pops up , check " Open in Low Resolution " .
Wait until Lion 's release and then you could sort by " date added " <URL>
Apple 's website has a page dedicated to <URL> for systems earlier than 8.1 . ( They also still have <URL> , but the Downloads link on this page just links to the current OS X downloads page . )
Not exactly but you can use the computer 's ethernet internet connection via Wifi to the iPhone . In that case just go to System Preferences > Sharing , then Select Internet Sharing Select Ethernet in the field Share your connection from Flag Wi-Fi in the field To computers using Go to Wi-Fi Options ... and select a network SSID and a security password Click OK Flag Internet sharing If you are using a pc with windows you can follow the instructions reported <URL> . Basically : Go to Network Connections in your Control Panel by going to Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center and then click Change adapter settings on the menu on the left . Right-click your Internet connection that you want to share ( e.g. , Local Area Connection ) and click Properties . Click the Sharing tab . Check the " Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's Internet connection " option .
There are apps in App Store : <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) and <URL> ( $ 4.99 ) that allow to use your Mac 's keyboard as Bluetooth keyboard . The obvious requirements are Mac with Bluetooth and recent OS X.
Yes . You need the discontinued " iPod " camera connector . ( not to be confused with the iOS iPad camera connector ) <URL> They are for sale on Amazon ( and of course at local thrift shops and electronics shops worldwide ) . <URL>
Send as SMS only prevent sending an SMS as a fallback if iMessage fails . You will still be able to receive and send SMS .
The books and PDFs are stored , as all other media files ( if media organization is turned on ) , in your iTunes Media Folder ( Music/iTunes/iTunes Media ) . You can use <URL> or any other <URL> to read them .
Yes , Numbers can export CSV files . Go to File " Export and click the CSV tab .
There 's no built in function afaik . However - even if you manage to hide the menu bar via terminal magic ( do n't know if there is ) you will still face the issue that windows ca n't lap over the monitor ( since windows ca n't lap between spaces ) , you can only move the complete window to one space/monitor or the other
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
The battery is your primary concern - it is a consumable part . You may only get 300 to 500 complete charges before it will not take a useful charge . Additionally , as a Lithium Polymer battery with no adaptive charging , it fades every year once it 's made . The lower the average temperature , the less it fades . Try to always keep it less than 75 degrees and time above 95 is exceptionally bad for long term health ( think 20 % loss of capacity in one year ) . Even if you store it perfectly , you can expect to lose 25 % capacity within 3-4 years . For long term storage , it 's best to charge it to just above 50 % and let it self discharge down to maybe 40 or 35 % and then charge it back up to over 50 . Having it always full is n't the best - but you also want to use it , so just assume you will pay for a battery sooner or later . You have to decide - do you want a museum piece that is under perfect storage conditions ( battery not too full and not too empty - both of which are bad ) ? The extremes can damage a battery significantly - damaging the chemistry : totally low voltage - drained past all the low limits ( leaving it in a drawer when discharged ) excessive heat past 115 F is also very bad - even for a few hours The rest of the failures are more about chance of random failure since you wo n't be dropping it or crushing it :-) The hard drives in 4G and older iPods were designed for occasional use , so running them in disk mode or running a mac on an OS installed on the iPod was likely to cause them to fail after months or years of that use . You might avoid running an OS - but for normal syncs and play , the drive spins down most of the time and this should n't be a big concern . Physical shock when the hard drive is spinning would of course be bad . I suppose the spring in the headphone jack would rather be out than in ( some tiny amount of less stress ) - but also less duty cycles is also good . I say , as long as you wo n't jam the plug / crush the internals - leaving it in all the time might be better than always putting it in/out/in / out . You 've got 5 years of swap service from Apple and you can always get a <URL> if it ever dies , knowing that Apple will seal a new case in the factory . Any <URL> can result in a bent/damaged or less than perfect case seal ( As hard as it is to open them , the latest classics are even harder to close again properly than the old ones that you could use a nylon spudger or a flat razor blade to crack open . ) Good luck ! I plan to get one of the last classics - once they go on sale as a discontinued product and treat it with kid gloves .
A few solutions , not all of them good : If possible , update to iOS 5 ( probably at the Apple Store ) and do n't use iTunes . Find a friend with a Mac or a PC and get them to activate it . Go to the Apple Store ( as Randolph said ) and ask them . Run Windows in VirtualBox ( or another VM solution ) , and use iTunes from there . ( thanks , Fake Name ) Get sixty million of your best friends to switch to Linux and all complain at Apple for a Linux port of iTunes . Run iTunes in Wine , if that 's possible .
The <URL> and the <URL> does not mention target display mode as a feature . That unfortunately means that the Early 2009 generation of iMacs did not offer a target display mode so you will not be able to use that displayport output as an input source .
You can use the USB drive plugged into the busted computer as a network drive with OS X 's file sharing . Mount the drive with USB . Go to System Preferences - > Sharing - > File Sharing . Turn it on and click the plus button . Click on your USB drive and click Add . Add your user account on the right . Now , go to another computer on the network . The busted MacBook should appear in the Finder sidebar . Click it and click Connect As . Type in your username and password ( the one you use on the busted MacBook ) . Let it log in . Click on the USB drive and let it load the list of files . You should now see your USB drive mounted on your desktop . Now , to configuring Time Machine . By default , TM does n't let you use a network drive unless its a Time Capsule . But , you can allow it do so by changing a hidden preference . Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) . Type this in and press enter : Now , open System Preferences - > Time Machine . Turn it on and set it to use your network drive . Backups will be slowish , but they should work . If you want to use iTunes and Time Machine , you 'll need to use Disk Utility to partition the drive into two partitions . Time Machine needs a whole partition to run ... If you do that , just make sure that you select both partitions on the busted MacBook 's System Preferences pane . Set up Time Machine to use one partition , and add your iTunes folder on the other one . Notes : The MacBook will have to be turned on for you to get at its files . 320GB is kinda small for a Time Machine disk , especially if you 're partitioning to keep media on it . Just be careful ... Hope this helps .
You could do a clean install youself after formatting the disk . You will end up with exact the same result after doing this . Why the format , you ask ? You wo n't have any Mountain Lion files on your system . Returning to the place you bought it from is as easy , you say ? Returning the device to the store does not make any difference except spending ( more ) time and probably pay gas for the car . If you let them do the update , they will just click the icon in the AppStore resulting in the same result as doing it yourself . ( This does not count for an official Apple Retail Store , but it does ( at least in my country ) for the premium resellers ) Official Apple Retail Store If you have an official Apple Store , it comes as free service to get the OS X re-installed . The only difference that would really help you out is getting a newer replacement from the store , with Mavericks pre-installed . I doubt they will replace it as the device is n't broken and can not be returned for RMA .
As @Timothy pointed out in the comments , the App Store will work normally on a jailbroken device . As for your own apps , you can run them , but if you do n't have a paid developer account it is harder to get them on the device . If you have a paid account , you can use the normal methods to install and run them . A device which is not jailbroken will refuse to run any app which is not signed with an Apple-approved certificate . When you jailbreak , the code which performs the checks is modified . It will still only run signed apps , but those apps can be signed by any certificate . Therefore , you can create your own certificate to sign your apps with . However , the normal methods of installing an app will perform the check and refuse to install it . This means you need to find an alternate method of installation , most likely using SSH or USB to copy a package over and modifying permissions .
Hold down your finger in the address bar to get the little magnifier to show up , finally drag your finger to the right or left to get to the part of the url that you want to edit .
end question
start question
Is this possible to improve boot time ?
I do not know of a way of shortening the actual boot time : from power on to login dialog window . You might however be able to shorten your login time by removing items from your login items list . You can find the list of user login items here : System Preferences → Accounts → → Login items . Remove stuff that has been added there that you do not want . Use some common sense though . E.g. if you use a calendar app that notifies you of appointments , it might be a bad idea to remove the calendar helper app from your list of login items .
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
Using the <URL> referenced by <URL> , maybe something like the following modification can exclude the currently active application : Then you can add this as a service using Automator , and assign a keyboard shortcut for it in the Keyboard section of System Preferences .
Gui Method If you want something to run when a user logs in , the easiest way is to use the GUI . You can Go to the screen , and add the item there by clicking the symbol dragging and dropping the onto the pane In the dock , bring up the context menu for an app , select , then select Launchd method If you want to launch something that is not a , or you want to have more control over launching it , such as : at a certain time or at a specified interval continuously re-launching if it crashes not related to user login as a function of network access only run when another process is running when a file is added to a folder etc. . then you want to use the technical solution that is . The easiest way to set up a config file is to use a tool to help . At the time of writing the most popular method is <URL> ( which has an older free version available from SourceForge ) , or the <URL> tool . Hand Coding If you do n't want to use Lingon or the PList Website and only want to use the raw tools available on the system , you can write your own by hand Here is my launchd script to run SomeApp continuously after the system boots ( independent of a user logging in ) . It is in / System/Library/LaunchAgents / and called SomeApp.restart.plist . If it is run based on a user login , it could be stored in ~ / Library/LaunchAgents / Load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with Launchctl will run this after reboots . There are many additional options that can be found by experimenting with Lingon or by reading the man pages for , , , , etc. .
You should be able to use <URL> to do most of what you want . Certainly requirement 1 is met and you should be able to achieve most of 2 with it too .
I like MK 's answer above . Look at those things first . Then - consider this ... I experienced something similar to what you are describing . I tried the erase , format and restore from Time Machine ... it did n't really help . Then someone suggested starting up with the option key held down and reinstall the operating system . ( this ' reinstalls ' the OS while keeping all of your files ! ) If you are running Mountain Lion or later , you can follow Apple 's instructions here : <URL> This solution worked much better for me .
It 's the " Inactivity Sound , " called " Bass , " that <URL> plays by default when you have n't been using it for a few hours . And I thought my computer was overheating ! I ca n't understand why anyone would make a web app that non-obviously plays a repeating , scary sound on repeat hours after the user last interacted with it . Terrible . Anyway , that 's one mystery solved . <URL>
There are applications that let you control how much of each color component in the display generated by your machine gets to the monitor . An example of this is <URL> . These are useful for adjusting your monitor for night time viewing , and other special cases . Unless you have something like this running on BOTH the machines , it 's likely that the problem is either with the monitor itself , or with the cable . Are you connecting via VGA or DVI ? A problem with the cable would n't manifest like that on DVI , but could on VGA , where individual pins literally correspond to component colors . If on VGA , try another cable and see if that helps . If that does n't work , it 's most likely that the monitor is broken .
Yes . Sign up with apple for their custom B2B store and you can sell apps to only the clients you approve . Your clients will sign up for VPP and you 'll need to set things up when you upload your app to the App Store . <URL> For the administrative hassle , you get the ability to sell purchase orders , set custom pricing , negotiate custom contract directly with your customers and have Apple still do the app review , the QA and app distribution for you . Alternatively , your clients can set up a MDM and custom App Store and you can follow Apple 's instructions for app distribution outside the App Store .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
No , Time Machine does not do this . The only reliable way to back up your BootCamp partition is to boot into Windows and run Windows-compatible disk backup software from within Windows , to back up to a separate external hard drive formatted with NTFS . Winclone has not been updated in a long time and is not a useful solution .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
It should be possible , but it will not be able to use your existing MBP backup ( you will need to start it from scratch ) . Just plug the disk into the iMac , make sure it is being shared , and then select it in Time Machine setup on the MacBook Pro and let it do the initial backup . The reason you ca n't use the existing backup is that when you use a disk for Time Machine it uses that disk directly , since it is attached to the machine and the machine knows no other machine is modifying it . When you use it over a network it creates a disk image and puts the time machine data in the disk image ( in essence , it is a poor man 's version of <URL> . Migrating between these two configurations is possible , but non-trivial .
Yes , turning off WiFi will save power . In case you are not using any data it will but if you still gon na use cellular data with Wi-Fi off then it might be that you actually get less of battery life since data on cellular uses more battery than on WiFi especially if signal is weak . For example for iPhone 6 ( for 5 it was about the same ) specs for Power and Battery are :
If Windows 8 has been released in your country , you should be able to find a reseller with the System Builder version available as a DVD . Local system builders is a pretty big business in most countries so just look around for someone offering custom built Windows systems . A quick Google search on " create a DVD ISO on OS X " shows lots of how-to articles for that step . You can either use an external DVD reader ( maybe $ 30 ) or get somebody with a DVD to create the ISO for you .
end question
start question
What tools and concepts are good for someone thinking about using HFS filesystem compression ?
First you should figure out whether or not compression is worth it . This depends largely on the type of content you 're storing . If the content is not compressible ( JPEG images , most video formats , ZIP archives , etc. ) , there 's little benefit and the added overhead of decompression may even cause a ( minor ) slowdown in file access . HFS + compression is most likely the wrong tool , for several reasons . First , compression is n't transparent , only decompression is . That is , if a file is stored compressed , it will be transparently decompressed when being read , but a newly created file will not be compressed by default . Worse , when you overwrite or append to a compressed file , it will once again be stored without HFS + compression . Therefore , if you wanted to use HFS + compression with user data , you would need to copy the entire volume first ( using ditto or afsctool ) , file by file . On 60 TB this might take rather a long time . Furthermore you would regularly have to run a process that determines which files were added/modified recently ( or are n't compressed ) and ( re ) compresses those . As the ditto man page states , HFS + compression " is only intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system files " . It 's great for your folder , but not very suitable for your filer . Only if you 're really desperate for capacity and have a lot of files that never get written to I would even consider it . Key being desperate :) I 'm not aware of any transparent file system level compression packages for OS X. ZFS supports transparent file system compression , but switching your filers OS and FS may not be an option ( since sadly there 's no complete ZFS implementation for Mac OS X ) .
Whenever I hear a song and I want to know the name of it , I use <URL> on my iphone . So far it has identified all of the songs I 've searched . Even if for some reason I do n't have network access , it will store the search and you can send it to their servers once connectivity is restored . By the way , SoundHound and Midomi are the same thing . Midomi changed its name to SoundHound .
I understand you do n't want to install Windows . However , thats what all Mac-users at our company do ( with vmWare fusion ) .
The Apple provided Disk Utility ( and shell command ) will allow you full RAID control over internal and external drives . You do have to erase the drives to add the RAID capability , but then you can join those drives into RAID . That is the only potential drawback to implementing RAID storage on the Mac . Drive spanning , JBOD , striping and mirroring are all possible with Mac OS X software RAID . Lion brings the concept of physical and logical volumes to the OS , but RAID on Snow Leopard is also very fully functional . If you brake a mirrored RAID set - the drives are valid when connected to the same mac and portable to any other mac . You are not locked into a proprietary standard and do n't need any additional software for any of this functionality . and are free sync tools - very scriptable , powerful , and free .
I had that configuration - and also used for friends &amp; family - and it worked just fine . The only drawback is that mail is no longer pushed to your phone . But apart from that , it 's the best solution to have Gmail ( actually working ) and Google Contacts / Calendar on your iPhone .
I do n't have numbers to back up the statement , but using HFS + non-journaled is a good idea in certain volumes that require absolute speed , without worrying ( too much ) about a possible " data loss " or " data corruption " in case of power failure or similar . When is using HFS + Non-journaled a BAD idea ? External ( USB , FW , ESata ) drives that are connected and reconnected often : It 's usually a bad idea , since these drives tend to be accidentally disconnected very often and or their power sources unplugged . Partitions where data integrity is important and protection from an unexpected power loss is a must . ( Documents , Music , Videos , Backups , etc ) . When is using HFS + Non-journaled a GOOD idea ? Scratch , Temp , trivial storage and similar drives and partitions , where speed is > data integrity in case of power fail . You want your Final Cut scratch volume to be non-journaled ( you do have an UPS anyway , do n't you ? ) . You want your Photoshop temp to be non-journaled . Drives to copy stuff around ( a Pen drive for example if you take care of properly ejecting ) . Any other drive that requires portability and compatibility like you correctly pointed out . Remember , maintaining the journal adds a small overhead , but the benefit in case of improper volume dismount are important , no only to avoid a full disk " scan " at startup or re-mount , but also in terms of making sure that data is not corrupted in the first place . Mounting a non-journaled drive that has been incorrectly unmounted , will cause a <URL> scan , whereas the journaled drive will be able to be up and running in a shorter period of time ( scanning the journal and applying uncommited transactions ) . Regarding Speed and tests , I do n't have much info to back up the above claim , however , as far as I know the speed difference not only is very small and even hard to notice , but in some case Journaled filesystem is faster than non-journaled . Turn out that despite the overhead of the journal , some operations can be made asynchronously in the Journaled drive , whereas the non-journaled version has to perform things synchronously . For reference I googled a little bit trying to find an old comparison ( the numbers are probably valid since HFS + has n't really changed much since their first iterations in OSX , other than adding Inline Attribute Data records , and access control list file security and maybe something else . Here 's the website with the charts : <URL> TL ; DR : The file copy/duplicate/copy sequence was pretty much equally fast for both journaled/non-journaled HFS . The same sequence with the folder was again somewhat faster with the journaled HFS ( emphasis mine ) Conclusion I am somewhat surprised to see the above results , as I was kind of convinced that using Non-Journaled was really faster for some operations , but apparently the little cases where it can make a difference , it 's overweighted by the " safety " of Journaling .
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
It 's good for avoiding tangles when you 're not using your earbuds , or when you are using them , from preventing you from tearing your earbuds . ( When you 're jogging or whatever . ) That extra clip is the first thing to give when you pull them apart . If that was n't there , the next thing to pull would be the splitter . Then you 'd have half a pair of earbuds .
That functionality is how the Finder works at present . Sizes made to a dialog in an app should be saved across open actions ( but the window position is n't saved as this window gets drawn to be centered and a bit below the active window . ) Changes to the underlying window are supposed to affect the open dialog . Are you using safari or some other program to " browse " ? Have you looked at software like <URL> to add better tracking of the recent folders ? I do n't know if it will help with the sizing , but it has been doing the default folder trick for ages and ages and is very stable and well supported . Lastly , do check how the Apple apps like Safari , TextEdit and Pages work . Many third party applications do n't implement file open / file save / file choose according to the user interface guidelines . Much of this is fairly technical but documented at developer.apple.com in the Human Interface Guidelines . See the open and choose discussion <URL> if you want to know how this happens in code . In a nutshell - OSX does save folder and size while a program is running but not generally saved after the speficic application is quit . A programmer can make their program do anything - so even if OSX wants to go to the last folder , if the program says to always open the home folder you will need a plug in like DefaultFolder or that program to change .
A different approach is to use an app like <URL> or <URL> which not only can record notes , but also integrate with other note taking tools . Evernote is strong for tagging notes with location and time of capture . Notability is stronger since it allows you to draw notes , sketches or type notes while recording . Once the session is over , you can tap on your notes to queue the sound to the time when you wrote that specific note . It 's got reasonably good options for audio recording , but no audio editing features -- but if the combination of note-taking and audio notes appeals , it 's pretty ideal . If you just need a simple - fast - press one button and go app - try out <URL> . It 's snappy and works from the Apple Watch to the iPad Pro .
I use Adobe InDesign for this kind of thing ... more flexible than AcrobatPro . Allows total control over what you import into the pdf ( text , images , other pdfs , etc. ) and the ability to create clickable TOCs . If you are going to do a lot of this , or a lot of print , it is worth the investment .
As of right now , there are no disadvantages . In fact , my fiancée and I do this right now . We share an AppleID for store purchases and set up Home Sharing so that our iPads and MacBooks can share apps , but we have separate iClouds on our machines and everything works fine .
If you 're looking to check on a system-wide level , then the Server tools that bmike mentioned above might be of more use to you . I do n't have experience with them ; I 'm recommending two tools that are useful for an individual user . ClamXav ( free , http://www.clamxav.com/ ) is based on the ClamAV engine that bmike mentioned . It can be told to scan everything on your hard drive , or just files you tell it to ( e.g. only files downloaded from the web ) . Specific to your needs , from their home page : " Clearly lists infected files " . I presume , but am not certain , that such files include PDF and image files . Virusbarrier ( $ 49.95 , <URL> ) and VirusBarrier Plus ( 99 cents , <URL> ) are both made by Intego . The MAS page claims that this " Finds and repairs Microsoft Word , Excel or PowerPoint documents " and " Finds and eradicates PDF malware " , which seems what you 're looking for . I tried VirusBarrier a couple of years ago , and it seemed pretty decent , but I stopped using it because it was overkill for my purposes . One of those two might be able to sort you out . Note that they both go after Windows and Mac malware , so you need n't worry about sending on malware to a Windows PC if you use one of the above ( in theory , at least ) . If you 're interested , you might also like to look up XProtect . It 's an anti-malware system built into OS X , that looks out for nasty things . It 's not as mature as the two products above ( it debuted in mid-2009 , IIRC ) , but it 's a nice tool to have , nonetheless . As for some of the online services you mentioned , I 've found various pages from the companies about their policy on scanning email . I 've never run into any of these antivirus scanners , so I ca n't comment on their quality . Google has an antivirus scanner in Gmail , as explained on <URL> : Gmail automatically scans every attachment when it 's delivered to you , and again each time you open a message . Attachments you send are also scanned . Checking attachments for viruses protects our users and their information , and prevents the spread of viruses . Similarly , Yahoo! <URL> : Yahoo! Mail automatically scans all incoming and outgoing email attachments for known viruses . We use industry-leading Norton AntiVirus software , so you do n't have to do a thing . Download the attachment and wait for that reassuring message " No Virus Threat Detected . " If a virus is detected , it will be cleaned if possible , and you 'll be given further instructions . I ca n't find anything about scanners built into Windows Live Mail , MobileMe or iCloud . That does n't mean that they do n't exist ; simply that they do n't show up in a Google search . Hope some of this is useful to you :)
Stub applications are smaller apps that do work for larger , more complex apps . For example , an app can request information from a stub app concurrently with a main process that the original app is running . Then , the stub app can return information back to the main process that initiated the stub binary .
There are a couple of gotchas I 'm aware of . If you buy apps on both iTunes accounts , they all get listed together when updates become available , not just the ones on the account you 're currently signed into . So if you click ' download all free updates ' iTunes will only download the updates for the account which is signed in . This can be confusing because you 've told it to download all free updates and it does n't tell you why it has n't downloaded the others . If you have an Apple TV and you want to use Home Sharing , then you can only share the content for one account at a time .
The shortcuts that can be set in System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Application Shortcuts are stored in and the property lists of applications ( like or ) . The shortcuts for services are stored in <URL> .
I did figure out the problem ; my router had MAC address filtering on . So , I turned off the MAC address filtering and it works now .
The other answer seems to be correct about the file system being HFSX , but on being case-insensitive ( other answer since edited to correct ) , I found that not to be the case in the book <URL> . On page 23 it says : In iOS , being the case sensitive HFSX by default , case is not only preserved , but allows for multiple files to have the same name , albeit with a different case . Naturally , case sensitivity means typos produce a totally different command or file reference , often a wrong one . [ emphasis above is mine ] Since that did n't agree with the other answer , I sought confirmation . I loaded a sample iOS project I was working on and changed the name of the database to only differ by case . After running the app on my iPad mini ( iOS 6.1 ) to re-create the database , I went into iTunes and looked at the files under File Sharing for the application . Here 's what I saw : So , it would appear Mac OS X and iOS Internals is correct : case is preserved and allows for multiple files to have the same name . Interestingly , when I selected both files in iTunes ' File Sharing and clicked " Save to ... " my desktop , I did not get any warning . iTunes apparently " saved " both files to my desktop , but only the initial-uppercase version survived ( presumably overwriting the initial-lowercase version of the file . )
I also have the same problem and unfortunately there does n't seem to be a way to view this kind of information at present . This is corroborated by several Apple Support Community threads <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . As you say , the only option seems to be to either try to figure out which machines are currently authorized and deauthorize them using iTunes ( particularly difficult in the case of multiple VM 's or machines you no longer have ) or deauthorize all and start again .
I believe that you 're not asking in the wrong place , you 're really not asking a question . What you define like " The Good Docs " is completely subjective . The guide you linked clearly says : Important : This document is intended for use by security professionals in sensitive environments . Implementing the techniques and settings found in this document impacts system functionality and may not be appropriate for every user or environment . If you 're using this guide , you should be an experienced Mac OS X user , be familiar with the Mac OS X user interface , and have experience using the Terminal application 's command-line interface . You should also be familiar with basic networking concepts . Some instructions in this guide are complex , and use could cause serious effects on the computer and its security . These instructions should only be used by experienced Mac OS X users , and should be followed by thorough testing . So clearly these " good " documents are not that good for everybody . In any case , Spotlight does n't index / System because that could be a security problem on its own ( it would need permissions to do that , a set of permissions that you do n't want to give to a userland daemon running all the time , with access to a UI ) . Why would a regular user want to keep an index of / System remains a mystery to me , it only has things that are for the System and not for the user to find and manipulate . You can , however , use the terminal to touch that if that 's what you want , but no user should ever attempt to land in / System , it can only break so many things ... Where did you get the idea that / System is the most important place to keep an eye on files ? Spotlight is a tool to keep an eye on files ? The place to keep an eye on files is in your very own / Users/YourFolder , because that 's all the access you should have ( to write that is ) . Spotlight is an indexing/searching tool , not a tool to monitor files that may seem suspicious in reserved system places . All in all , if you still want those docs , I 'm sure that most of them will be available in the developer 's area of Apple 's website . ( developer.apple.com ) . You can create a free account and start from there . On the other hand , if you are a " security professional " then you are using the wrong tools for your job . Spotlight is ok as it is , if anything , you might want to restrict it . I 'm sure that if you make spotlight run as root it will eventually index that , but of all the possible ideas that come to my mind , that is probably one of the worst security ideas ever conceived . There 's a reason why root user is disabled by default , there 's a reason for sudo and there 's a reason for normal accounts . Use them wisely , use them in peace .
end question
start question
How can I stop spaces from switching automatically ?
Stop Spaces from switching spaces due to an app coming to the foreground : Or via the GUI : and then uncheck the checkbox at the bottom : " When switching to an application , switch to a space with open windows for the application " Stop ( slow down ) Spaces from switching spaces if your mouse presses against the edge of the desktop :
If you switch PowerPoint to display mode first , then switch to a mac app ( using command-tab ) , then turn off mirroring , the setting should then stick . Otherwise , as you found out , Microsoft is sure nobody but powerpoint needs display mode . In case some reader does n't know how to turn off mirroring : If you go into " System Preferences/Display Preferences " Arrangement tab ( only present when connected to a second display ) , uncheck the box that says " Mirror Displays " . Also , on the bottom of the Display Preferences pane , you can check " Show displays in menu bar " to access this setting more easily without going into preferences .
In this case , it was just a bug . All you need to do to fix this is to restart your iPhone and it should be fixed . Thanks to Apple support .
It 's a problem with a specific web page -- <URL> . It specifies the content type <URL> in the <URL> , which is usually used for files meant to be downloaded -- and that 's what your web browser does . HTML web pages usually use or similar HTTP headers , never . If you were browsing web sites with similar topics that might link to this web page , and you clicked a link , or the web page was included in another web page using a frame/iframe , that 's the cause for the downloads .
Go to an Apple store ( or ask a friend with tech skills ) to remove the hard drive from the MacBook . Most likely the hard drive will be unharmed and putting it into an external USB case will let you access it ( not necesarily directly via the iPad but through some other way , e.g. iCloud or USB stick or something ) . Btw , quite likely the MacBook is not beyond repair also . Ask an Apple tech .
Gui Method If you want something to run when a user logs in , the easiest way is to use the GUI . You can Go to the screen , and add the item there by clicking the symbol dragging and dropping the onto the pane In the dock , bring up the context menu for an app , select , then select Launchd method If you want to launch something that is not a , or you want to have more control over launching it , such as : at a certain time or at a specified interval continuously re-launching if it crashes not related to user login as a function of network access only run when another process is running when a file is added to a folder etc. . then you want to use the technical solution that is . The easiest way to set up a config file is to use a tool to help . At the time of writing the most popular method is <URL> ( which has an older free version available from SourceForge ) , or the <URL> tool . Hand Coding If you do n't want to use Lingon or the PList Website and only want to use the raw tools available on the system , you can write your own by hand Here is my launchd script to run SomeApp continuously after the system boots ( independent of a user logging in ) . It is in / System/Library/LaunchAgents / and called SomeApp.restart.plist . If it is run based on a user login , it could be stored in ~ / Library/LaunchAgents / Load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with Launchctl will run this after reboots . There are many additional options that can be found by experimenting with Lingon or by reading the man pages for , , , , etc. .
There 's no built-in functionality to download lyrics in iTunes , but there 's a slew of software designed for this purpose : Windows : <URL> <URL> <URL> OS X : <URL> <URL>
In the of your web pages , add : There 's lots more where this came from at <URL> .
The easiest ( and free ) way would be to upgrade your system to OSX 10.9 ( Mavericks ) ; they actually built this into the newest version of Safari which is included . If you do n't want to venture down that route , there are a few Safari extensions you can use to accomplish your goal . ClickToPlugin and/or ClickToFlash <URL> YouTube5 extension - blocks them by not supporting them <URL> 3 : AdBlock Plus - follow the development builds page ( the 2nd link ) to see when they release their version for Safari - I know it 's delayed right now but still in development , You 'll need to google this as I do n't have enough rep to post more than 2 links , sorry . Personally I run Mavericks , but also use ClickToPlugin ; it works for any ads that the newest version of Safari does n't catch .
What you observe is the default setting for podcasts in iTunes , which is to download the most recent episode of a podcast . To avoid this , follow these steps : Go to Podcasts in the iTunes Library pop-up menu . Select a podcast . Right click and choose " Settings " ( or alternatively , click on the gear icon next to the podcast title on the episode list on the right ) . In the Podcast Settings dialog , under the " Settings for : " dropdown , select " Podcasts Defaults " ( this would apply your changes to all podcasts ) . In the " When new episodes are available : " dropdown , select " Do nothing " ( the default option being " Download the most recent one " ) . Click OK . With this change , iTunes will never download new episodes for any of your podcasts . If you wish to change this setting only for specific podcasts , you can do so by selecting the specific podcast in the " Settings for : " dropdown and/or by changing the defaults .
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
You can right-click the selected text and choose " Copy " from the menu that pops up . If you need to copy only a single word , you can just right-click the word without selecting it first , which works in both foreground and background apps .
Ha ! Found it ! then map CMD to CTRL :
You can do it with some AppleScript . This will create a new desktop every time you run it : You can save this as a Universal Service you can assign a globally-available shortcut key combination to call it . <URL> .
What I 've done to achieve this is to simply not assign any applications to any special space at all . That way , when opening an application , it opens on the space I 'm curently on , letting me organize my work into different projects as I want . On Lion , the organization is kept through reboots , at least for some applications . There is also the utility <URL> , which lets you save configurations of different application windows to easily recreate spaces you use often .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
Mail.app > Preferences > Viewing > uncheck " Load remote content in messages " You will then have this banner at the top of each message that contains remote content ( just in case you do want to see the images ) : Aside : I still see the occasional image in a message when looking through my spam folder . As best I can tell when I " view raw source " the spammers are including the image in the message text itself ( there is a large block of text that looks like gibberish to me ) , but I 'm not an expert on what is going on there . It might just be a bug in this feature .
I was just looking into this myself . The settings are still accessible via the Dock , when you have more than one space set up : As far as removing these associations entirely , try removing .
In the Mail.app go to Preferences - > general . There is an option " Add invitations to ICal " which is Automatic or None . You need to choose None . When you have a mail with date and time in Mail.App will highlight that and clicking on that will add an event to iCal .
Eventually I found the basic solution : For Java applications in general you can specify that they are ' headless ' , by adding the option to your java application . ( also posted to stackoverflow ) .
end question
start question
How does Messages work between my Mac and my iPhone ?
I think the source of your confusion is the difference between traditional text messages ( SMS ) and iMessages ( Apple 's own protocol ) . Messages on the Mac does n't support SMS . Any message you send or receive on your iPhone as SMS wo n't show up in Messages on the Mac . If you send a message as an iMessage , though , then it 'll show up on the Mac . Now here 's where it gets confusing : even though iMessages are " data " and not " text , " they can be sent between phone numbers . If you 've got iPhones at both ends , a " text " sent from one to the other will be sent as an iMessage by default . These messages will then appear in Messages on the Mac .
If you prefer native and non web-based solution try Money app by Jumsoft <URL> Three client apps for Mac , iPhone , iPad . Featured : subcategories , simple scheduler , sync . Should be enough for personal finances .
You can use the current version with other hardware , but it is n't trivial . The LED Cinema Display connects to Macs using a Mini DisplayPort , which is n't popular on non-Apple hardware . However , you can get a converter like <URL> that lets you use the monitor with an HDMI connection . So , if the other machine has an HDMI out you could use that . I 'm sure you can also find converters to use with VGA or DVI outputs . The next version of the display will ( almost certainly ) use ThunderBolt instead of Mini DisplayPort . The physical connector is the same , but the data that travels over the cable is very different . These converters may or may not work with ThunderBolt ; we 'll have to wait for the product to come out and for someone to test .
Sadly , you 've passed the point where you get to save your work . Luckily , iMovie periodically saves the application database / library so you are unlikely to lose everything if you decide to shut down the Mac or force quit the application . Once you regain control of the application ( you already know you ca n't do anything with it stuck in a state where it 's no longer responding to messages , input - a.k.a spinning wheel of death ) you can see if the changes you made are missing . If they are , a call to apple support might be needed to restore the backup copies of the library it has made internally since Apple does n't document how to restore a previous iMovie library publicly . Going forward , you can set a timer and periodically save/quit iMovie and then back up the files . Time Machine allows you to make local snapshots if you do n't have your backup volume connected . Then to make a point in time snapshot of all the files , quit iMovie and then run in terminal : That saves a neat point in time version of all your files that you can then recover later using the Time Machine interface .
I do n't believe the subscriptions are synced , just the files . I imagine the reason for this is that if subscriptions synced , your Mac and iOS device would both download all new episodes , rather than having one copy that gets synced between them .
I ran into the same annoyance myself , and stumbled into this workaround : Edit the " Repeat " setting for your alarm , and set it either to " Every day " or " Never " . Now the alarm goes off when it should , unlike when it 's set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Here 's a screenshot -- green works and red does n't : For more background info , I recommend these <URL> articles : <URL> <URL> The latter post contains Apple 's recommended workaround ( same thing as above , but with some additional information ) : To resolve this behavior for existing alarms , set the repeat interval to Never . You will need to reset these alarms for each day you need them . After November 7th , 2010 , you can set your alarms to repeat again . Update : It 's now past November 7 , and I just verified alarm works correctly again , even if repeat is set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Which is nice . But I hope they fix the bug once and for all before the next DST shift occurs !
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
There 's 2 different things here which are not pretty clear . First of all , there 's SMS and iMessage . And like explained on this <URL> you can restrict iMessages from giving a notification if you decide you want contacts only ( since iOS6 ) . This does not work for SMS . With iOS the name of Show iMessage alerts from changed , but the functionality remained the same .
You have to decide what you want in terms of storage , performance and OS since there is no option to have 2x1TB drives in the $ 799 model and there 's no option to have a 1TB Fusion Drive in the $ 999 model . Essentially , you 're paying $ 200 more to get OS X Server and for the ability to have a second hard drive ( doing it yourself is an option if you can follow guides on iFixit and have the tools and accessories required ) . Choose the $ 799 model with : A 1TB Fusion Drive - $ 250 OS X Server - $ 19.99 Total : $ 1068.99 ( but you 'll have a faster drive but half the storage space of the default $ 999 model ) . Choose the $ 799 model with the default 1TB drive : add another 1TB 2.5 " 5400 rpm drive - about $ 80 + ( approximate cost from newegg ) OS X Server - $ 19.99 The <URL> - $ 49.95 Total : $ 948.94 Hassle of doing it yourself : Priceless
Nowadays , this seems to be more of a timing issue , and I think Apple has improved the system overall . Basically , it 's no longer an issue .
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
There are several choices based on the fact that any UPnP server should also be DLNA compliant : Free ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( easier to install with <URL> ) Paid ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> The bold ones are directly mentioned to be DLNA servers .
Try <URL> Easily transfer photos and videos between iPhone , iPad , Android and Computer . No cables or extra software required . $ 2.99 in the app store .
In a nutshell , iOS sets up a persistent connection to the Apple Push Notification ( APN ) servers if you elect to use iMessage , iCloud , Notifications or other push services . From there , the phone checks in with the servers anytime it has a network connection and listens for messages that the servers wish to push to your device . Furthermore , iOS then registers which applications on your phone should get specific messages . All the messages pass through the notification center system in case you have elected for them to be posted to specific places such as the lock screen , the notification tray or just passed off to the end application for each message as appropriate . That 's it . There 's a server . ( likely many behind a load balancer ) There 's a connection that your device opens to the server . Things can then arrive through the connection .
Did you try a restart of the phone ? Also go to Contacts and click the " group " button in the top left and make certain that " All iCloud " is checked .
Because a one-size-fits-all auto-brightness setting is going to be unpleasant for a large number of users , either because the automatically-selected levels are either too difficult to see , too bright , or eat too much battery . The automatic setting is based on the threshold you set specifically so that the device can " figure out " ideal settings within a range that you can tolerate . More to the point , I have a question for you . Is there a point on the auto-brightness slider that you 're comfortable with ? If not , that should be all the proof you need that the slider is necessary ! If there is a setting that looks ideal all the time , you 've got nothing to complain about - the system works for you .
Well , this is one of those things where there 's 101 ways to do it and it 's just trial and error to see which works best for you . You could try wired connections using an HDMI cable or composite AV from your iphone to your TV , or there 's a variety of aftermarket apps that may work better for you . I 've detailed some ideas below : Connect With HDMI You 'll need to purchase <URL> for this option . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug one end of an HDMI cable into the HDMI port of the adapter , and the other end into an available HDMI port on your TV . Switch your TV to the appropriate HDMI input . For earlier models such as the iPhone 4 , the original iPad , or the fourth-generation iPod Touch , the display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect With Composite AV If your TV does n't support HDMI , or if it does n't have an available connection , you can link your device to the set through an analog connection , using an <URL> . Plug the adapter into your device 's 30-pin iPod connector . Plug the yellow video cable at the end of the adapter into an available analog video port on your TV . Plug the red and white audio cables at the end of the adapter into the red and white audio ports corresponding to the yellow video input on your TV . Tune your TV to the appropriate composite video input . The display wo n't be mirrored , but it will show photos and videos in supported apps once you start playing them on the device . Connect Wirelessly via Airplay Apple developed a wireless technology called AirPlay specifically for streaming content from iOS devices to other devices that support it . Make sure that your iPhone is on the same wireless network as your other AirPlay devices . On your iPhone , double-tap the Home button . Swipe the list that appears to the right , until you get to the volume and AirPlay settings . Tap the AirPlay button to bring up a list of supported AirPlay devices on your network . Tap the device to which you would like to stream . A TV icon next to the device indicates that you can stream images , video , and/or audio , while a speaker icon indicates that you can stream only audio . Connect Wirelessly via DLNA If you do n't want to shell out for an AirPlay-capable device , you may be able to use DLNA instead . These days , many modern TVs support streaming from a local network ( wired or wireless ) via the DLNA ( Digital Living Network Alliance ) standard . If your TV supports DLNA ( or sometimes just " UPnP " ) streaming , you can use your iPhone as a DLNA server . Just download and install a DLNA-server app -- <URL> , for example -- and you 're good to go . Connect Wirelessly with Aftermarket Apps You could try <URL> or <URL> as alternatives to the standard airplay functionality .
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
Your sending a lock does n't change the settings you had on the phone prior to losing it . If messages were showing on the screen - they will still show . If not , they will not . If you have find my phone enabled and are concerned about changing this , you could send a remote erase ( and then lose all ability to track it again ) and have it resort to the default behavior . I 'm hesitant to erase my phone now to test , but am fairly certain the default is towards privacy and further messages would not be displayed on the lock screen when the phone reboots or is powered on again .
I have spent the better part of 6 hours researching this exact question , it appears that the answer is NO . I miss the mobileMe gallery more and more .
end question
start question
Can I transfer or sync purchased as well as non-purchased songs from my iPhone to my computer ?
Things you 've purchased off the iTunes Store can be transferred off your iPhone by right clicking on your iPhone in iTunes and choosing ' Transfer Purchases ' . You might need to Authorise your computer first by clicking the Store Menu , and then choosing Authorise This Computer . For your non-iTunes Store content I 'd recommend <URL> ( read it backwards ! ) which lets you copy music from your iPhone or iPad back to your mac . Senuti costs $ 18 , but there 's a trial version , which can transfer up to 1000 songs . Neither of these require a jailbreak .
I know you asked if it was possible over Bluetooth and although my research did n't turn up anything for non-jailbroken phones , here is a WiFi solution which you could use on an Ad-hoc network that would work effectively the same way . Non Jailbroken WiFi : <URL> iPhone to iPhone : <URL> Jailbroken <URL> ( Cydia )
You probably wo n't like this answer , but as far as I know , there is no legal way to burn those episodes onto a DVD in a way that is playable in your DVD player . The problem is that the iTunes episodes are encrypted with Apple 's FairPlay DRM and DVD players do not know how to decrypt them . In order to make the videos playable in a DVD player , you would need to circumvent the DRM and this is illegal in many countries . As an alternative , you could buy an AppleTV and hook it up to your television . At $ 99 , it is a relatively inexpensive investment , and it would allow you to stream your iTunes shows to your TV while keeping your laptop and iPad free for your own use .
Last night , I did a <URL> about the issue , telling them the above . They confirmed that those were the steps that they would have advised . They told me to phone their support line ( 0800 107 6285 , 08:00 -- 19:45 Monday -- Sunday in the UK ) , and ask for " multimedia " support . However , this morning , my purchased TV shows were suddenly showing up again , I guess about five days after they disappeared .
This process assumes that iCloud is not enabled . It is possible to update apps on the device without doing so in iTunes . For this to work you will need to have enabled automatic downloads . If you sync your iPad with iTunes without transfering purchases you coukld end up with older apps and losing the updates . With iCloud there is no need for you to sync with iTunes , so if a device is plugged in iTunes would assume that you do not use iCloud and will transfer all the updated apps to the computer . All in all it is more of a safety precaution if you are already using iCloud .
ZoneAlarm , and other firewalls , may occasionally interfere with the syncing process . Turn off the firewall during sync to see if it 's the problem . If it syncs well after that , contact your firewall provider and ask for the proper setting so you do n't have to disable it every time you want to sync . Also , iOS 5.x can sync wirelessly , which may resolve the problem .
The LTE choice seems fairly clear as the Spring and Verizon models match the LTE coverage that EE has in the UK . O2 is n't listed , but you can see the information yourself here : <URL> Further information is available from the <URL> - but the GSM/EDGE and UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA capabilities of both models are the same . The Verizon/Sprint models have more LTE bands and CDMA as well but in Europe , the LTE situation is n't totally clear yet . If you get an Apple ID in the US - you will be restricted to the content in the US store . The same for choosing the UK store . Since it 's a hassle to juggle accounts and you ca n't get updates from an old country if you move accounts to a new one - it 's better to pick one account unless you intend to maintain and juggle both going forward perpetually . I would buy from Apple if you can since their holiday return policy is very lenient and you could return things in January if you choose poorly or learned more after buying . Also consider , AppleCare is tied to the country where you buy so if AppleCare plus is n't available in the UK and you are OK shipping it here for service , you might let that affect your buying choice if you want that coverage over the standard AppleCare . The good news is you can easily use her UK account here in the US and all her apps will work on the US device . The only problems would be radio ( not a problem on the mini hardware ) and warranty support . Since you live here , you can get her a pay as you go month of data with no commitment or long term contract . She wo n't need to unlock it and can work with her choice of carriers to serve it in England . No carrier lock , no hassle , no jail breaking needed .
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
<URL> You can boot from the USB drive . This means you can avoid having to get 10.6.8 and the Mac App store to download the Lion installer but can instead boot from USB and erase the drive and perform a bare install . Things to remember : Lion does not ship with iLife so consider pricing that or checking if older versions of the suite will work as desired . Lion may not import settings from older backups as well as it does in Snow Leopard , but it 's easy to try and erase and start over if problems arise . You can always hand copy files and folders or make a bootable clone of the old system just in case you will want to boot the mac in the old OS to export some data you did n't know needed moving ( old tax programs , etc. . . )
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
Emailing full resolution photos or videos On your iPhone open your camera roll and navigate to the overview screen where all your recent captures are shown via small square icons . Press and hold on the icon for the video you wish to move to your computer and select copy from the pop-up menu that appears . Still on your iPhone open Mail and create a new message . In the body of the message , press and hold the cursor , and select paste from the pop-up menu . The message you send will now have the full , unadulterated video attached which you can download on your desktop . Note : on my iPhone 4 I created a 4 second clip with very little motion and it used 6 MB . You may hit your attachment limit very quickly depending on length and resolution .
The easiest thing to do is clean up the index file Mail uses to track the messages : Thanks for this <URL> . The linked article explains how to make an AppleScript file to measure things before and after to see if the operation thinned out the size of the file Mail uses to store the pointers to the messages . I would add , quit Mail and make a backup before trying to clean the file . A operation is normally harmless , but why not get a backup just in case . Also , this thread probably goes back to <URL> and perhaps even deeper back ...
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
If you 're looking for hackerish screensavers , the old Xscreensaver bundle was converted to OSX a while ago . Nicely hacker type examples would be Sonar , AppleII , and Phosphor . Possible GLMatrix too . However , to answer your question : <URL> Write an applescript to run Terminal , run Top , and fullscreen itself . Then put that script into the app .
Backup means copying your personal data from your phone to your computer . That includes application settings , text messages , voicemails , etc. . Sync means copying new apps , music , video , or books from iTunes to your phone , or from your phone to iTunes . You can think of it this way : backup saves a copy of stuff you 've created , and sync copies media you have downloaded via the iTunes Store . Backup copies everything , but Sync only copies what you choose through iTunes . By default , it copies everything , but you can fine tune it all you want . You might want to stop movies from syncing to your phone if you never use it to watch movies , for example . Unless you 've changed the settings , when you connect your iPhone to your computer , iTunes always performs a backup first , then a sync . When you connect a new iPhone to your computer , iTunes will offer to reconfigure it using the latest backup it has . So if you connect your old iPhone , let it backup/sync , then connect your new iPhone , it should transfer everything so that your new phone is just like your old one , but faster !
Nowhere , unfortunately , because the information is n't reported anywhere . Individual publishers sometimes announce their sales and/or number of purchases , but it 's uncommon and there 's no reporting at all from the majority of the most successful publishers .
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
I know I 'm replying on an old question , but I came in here googling . My iPhone 4 had the same behavior , I just updated to iTunes 10 and I my music is no longer greyed out . In essence : upgrade to iTunes 10 and you should be able to do this .
I 'm afraid there is n't an easy way to do so . As far as I know , there is no app which can do what you want ... So I 've come up with two alternative solutions . The most easy one is to connect your iPhone to your Mac , launch <URL> ( which comes by default on your Mac ) , select all the photos and delete them . Here is <URL> how to do so . You can do this on your iPhone as well , without a Mac , but you 'll have to do it manually . Which is n't a grateful job if you 've got over a 1,000 photos ... Open the camera app , hit the upper-right icon ( share ) , tap all the photos you want to delete ( they are marked with a red check-icon ) and then hit delete .
end question
start question
How can I change the meta key on OS X Lion 's Terminal.app ?
Are you sure that it 's not to be found ? If I look at Preferences → Settings → Keyboard , the checkbox for Use option as meta key is at the bottom . I am on 10.7.1 so it may be something overlooked in the GM of Lion and fixed in the first patch .
A plausible way of resetting the password of your login on your OS X is to : Go to Single-user mode ( CMD + S on boot ) Type : and press Enter Type and press Enter Type and press Enter . On boot , you will be prompted to setup like if your mac was new . Do n't panic , as your data is not lost ( I would backup just in case though ) . Skip all unnecessary options , and later you will be prompted to create a new admin account . Once your setup finishes , from the new account , go to System Preferences > Users and Groups , click on your previous username and click Reset Password . Now type in the new password and login as your old account .
Ok ... i did some digging around ... and struck gold . The digging part is not for the " faint of heart " since the Terminal is your best friend and some coding knowledge is involved . Suffice to say my trip in Wiki Server 4 land led me through Ruby on Rails code . I was surprised to find that i 'm able to read ruby code , and i do n't know Ruby at all . After looking through Model Views and Controllers i figured out the solution was simpler than i anticipated . To modify the title on the first page you need to edit a . strings file . You need to use the download version ( not the mac app store app ) of TextWrangler or some other editor that allows Authenticated Saves ( save files as other users ) . Make sure the Wiki service is off ... the slider in the server app is off . The location of the file depends on your language locale that you use : / Applications/Server . app/Contents/ServerRoot / usr/share/collabd / coreclient/locales/en . lproj where " en " can be either de , es , fr , it , ja , ko , nl , zh_CN , zh_TW depending on your wiki language . First ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " to " Read and Write " . Open the file in TextWrangler and find the key general.os _ x_server and under it you can modify the string " OS X Server " to anything you want " My own company Wiki " . Save ( ) the file . Second ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " back to just " Read " . Move ( ) the slider in the Server App to On again for the wiki . Enjoy !!!
You will find a nice answer over at sister site <URL> . It involves a terminal program called <URL> which comes with lot 's of options and I know at least of one support file for extending its capabilities to print Ruby code . EDIT : I just noticed the " clipboard " part of the question . The clipboard content can be accessed from the command line and fed to using as mentioned in Matteo answer .
Any computer that shipped with Lion or Mountain Lion has <URL> , which is a very limited installer that downloads the full OS from Apple and installs it . To get into the Recovery mode , just boot while holding down commandR , and it will prompt you for the rest . However you can also do a direct clone of your existing disk to your SSD , which will avoid having to download the installer ( it 's about 4 GB ) or reinstall all your programs and data . You 'll need an external enclosure to put one of the drives in . You can do this with the built-in <URL> , or a tool like <URL> ( the free version of which suffices for this task ) .
You could either edit property lists that store the setting and reopen the DictationIM process : Or use UI scripting : Both scripts are copied from my answer to <URL> .
This can be done with a bit of hacking . Before proceeding , you should backup your Terminal 's preferences file : Check to see if the file was copied successfully : If it prints then you 're good to go . Otherwise make sure you typed the first command correctly . Now for the fun part , you can modify the internal settings of the Terminal by typing : Close the Terminal completely by first closing all open Terminal windows and then right clicking the Dock icon and choosing . Open the Terminal again and smile Let me know if this does n't work on your system .
Terminal - > Preferences - > Settings Select a color scheme and click
Not so far . You can do decide whether to turn on the sound or not for particular app ( if it enables user to turn off the notification sound ) . But you can not change the notification sound globally or per-app ( not at least in iOS 5 ) .
You can use traditional unix tools to start monitoring now . The free space statistics can be generated with the command , but you might just set your warning levels on server app and rely on alerts to notify you when space fills . I ca n't imagine needing to track storage space more than once a day to graph the growth or manage things , but your needs might be quite different . I 'd say 15 minute ( 900 seconds for iostat ) snaps of io activity would be sufficient and hourly or daily disk space logs would be overkill for most servers . You would probably decrease the monitoring interval during an investigation / performance tuning period , but day in and day out these stats usually just chew up CPU and disk space and do n't really help you manage the server . Once you decide upon how often you want to capture the data , you can get more fancy with a wrapper to start and stop the script / cut and process the log files daily , etc. . . I would say you 're going to want to instead look at the tools you want for actually analyzing and acting on the data . For one server , you could probably get away with one free instance of <URL> running and just log the data to syslog . From there you can graph / extract to spreadsheet / act on the data in a very flexible manner . Also , you might look at <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . There is an excellent write up at <URL> by Charles Edge explaining the how and why you would use those tools to tame the logs and graph things . If you had that , sending the statistics to the system log might be a very easy way to solve your problem of monitoring IO on your server .
From <URL> : For years , Mac OS X has had a great shortcut for getting a quick definition of a word : Simply hover the cursor over the word , and press the keyboard shortcut Command-Control-D to bring up a little Dictionary popup . This still works in Lion , but it 's now much more fully featured and also has a great new way to access it . Your looking for Cmd + Ctrl + D PS : Thanks for asking , it actually made me look and learn something new
Yes , according to Apple 's <URL> . Boot Camp : requires Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista ( sold separately ) . Also , you can install Windows 7 if you update Boot Camp . Info <URL> .
You should boot on the <URL> and use Terminal there to unlock the drive using the recovery key ( you ca n't check the recovery key if you are booted on the crypted disk , since the unlocking process will fail : already unlocked ) . To start with , you will need to identify the Logical Volume UUID of the encrypted drive using the diskutil corestorage list command : Running that command will give you a listing of all Core Storage volumes . Once you have the UUID of the encrypted volume , you can then unlock the encrypted volume using the following commands : When prompted enter the passphrase you would like to test . This article provides more information and screenshots , <URL> .
Before OS X 10.10 , you can run to re-sign the app with an ad-hoc signature . In order to re-sign it in 10.10 , you need to additionally specify the -- deep command to re-sign bootcamp : ' -- deep ' When signing a bundle , specifies that nested code content such as helpers , frameworks , and plug-ins , should be recursively signed in turn . Beware that all signing options you specify will apply , in turn , to such nested content . When verifying a bundle , specifies that any nested code content will be recursively verified as to its full content . By default , verification of nested content is limited to a shallow investigation that may not detect changes to the nested code . When displaying a signature , specifies that a list of directly nested code should be written to the display output . This lists only code directly nested within the subject ; anything nested indirectly will require recursive application of the codesign command .
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
Save a script like this as and make it executable with . You can then add a LogoutHook key to with . It can be deleted with . You can run a script at login by adding a LoginHook key or by using launchd . See also these questions about running scripts on <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
I have n't been experimenting with this for long enough to be an expert yet , but I think you 're confusing two semi-separate features : autosave and versions . Autosave saves frequently -- in TextEdit , it seems to save after about 30 seconds of inactivity . But it does n't save a new version , it just saves the current document state . Every hour and/or every time you explicitly save a version ( Command-S ) , it saves a restorable version -- one that you can revert to if you decide you 've made a mistake in editing . Once saved , the " version " does not get updated ; you can revert to it , or go into the Browse all Versions interface and copy content from it , but it 's essentially frozen . Autosave protects you against forgetting to save changes . Versions protects you against mistaken edits you wish you had n't made . They operate on different time scales ( and as far as I know , neither has customizable timing ) .
For free , you can use the <URL> driver . In order to use it , you have to install <URL> first . In the end , you 'll have a prefpane to mount and manage your NTFS drives
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
Requirements iPhone / iPad running iOS8 Mac running OS X 10.10 Yosemite How to Record iPhone/iPad Screen on OS X Yosemite Connect the iPhone/iPad to Mac via USB Open the QuickTime Player on the Mac Select Quicktime will default select iSight camera , click on the arrow alongside the record button to select the iPhone/iPad . Click on the record button to record the iPhone/iPad Screen
end question
start question
Can I Use iTunes Match To Stream My Library To My MacBook ?
I have n't tested it ( Match is not available for my country ) but from the <URL> it looks like you should be able to delete the songs locally and rely on the cloud storage to stream : Once your music is in iCloud , you can stream it to any of your devices . Just browse the complete list of all your music stored in the cloud . To listen to a song , tap the iCloud icon next to it and your song starts playing . You can store up to 25,000 songs in iCloud ( more if songs are purchased from the iTunes Store ) , but only what you want to play is stored on your device . So you have immediate access to a huge music library without taking up storage space . Have a look at this <URL> , it seems that after a song is matched and you try to delete it , a copy will be kept on the HDD in order to play it faster and not redownload it . Edit : I assume you 're aware of the perils of solely relying on cloud storage for your music library : it will only work while connected to the cloud , availability is subject to Apple 's benevolence ( with little warranty ) and terms of use might change anytime .
Upgrade your HDD with a SSD The hard drive is a common bottleneck in computing these days . This is due to the fact , that processors have become faster at computing . The hard drive can not keep up with the CPU . Because it 's slow , the CPU is not stressed as much as it could be : <URL> . See <URL> <URL> for a comparsion of a SDD to a HDD in a Macbook Pro . Upgrade RAM If your amount of RAM is insufficient , you will see lots of page-outs . Data which should be written to the RAM will be written to the hard drive instead . Because the hard drive 's input/output operations are much slower than the RAM 's , this slows down your computer . However , if your amount of RAM is sufficient already , you will not notice a benefit from a RAM upgrade . You can check how much page-outs there are using the which is located in . There are no official recommendations I know of as to what the ratio of page-ins to page-outs should be . Generally , you need to know that the more page-outs you have , the better your system could perform if you were to upgrade your RAM . I myself aim for a ratio of no more than 5 to 1 ( 20 % , page-in vs page-out ) Activity Monitor & #x 2192 ; System Memory : Clean install If you installed the upgrade ' over the top ' this will be like a ' software factory reset ' . Mostly you 'll notice a better performance because no other software has been installed yet . Still , a clean install helps in removing remains of uninstalled software but should be an ultimate measure for tackling problems that do not want to be solved otherwise .
Apple has a support document for this : <URL> . It also covers things like de-authorizing your old computer from the iTunes Store etc. .
Unlikely . Such functionality is indirectly excluded by the iOS Developer Program Licence Agreement under section 3.3.4 . There it is stated that applications may only write data to an application 's designated container area on the device . Therefore , the library data for ringtones can not can not be manipulted unless there were API to do this . I am not sure if I 'm allowed to post a direct link here , therefore use <URL> to get to the document .
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
Depends a lot on what file formats you 've got and what sort of quality you 're expecting . If your library is mostly h. 264 format ( typically mp4 , m4v , and most mkv files ) then the Apple TV should work pretty well for you . Anything in an mkv container will need to be converted to an mp4/m4v container , but that can be done losslessly most of the time ( i.e. no transcoding of video , just extracting the component streams and muxing them into an mp4 container - you may need to transcode the audio , but that 's easy and quick to do ) . If you have a lot of non-h .264 stuff ( i.e. anything in . avi , DIVX , etc. ) , you 'll need to transcode it , which means losing some quality and can use up a fair bit of CPU power . You can transcode ahead of time using a tool like <URL> , or you can try transcoding on-the-fly , which requires less planning ahead , but for HD files you 'll need a pretty beefy CPU , and the process is pretty haphazard . You can view the steps for doing that in my answer to <URL> Transcoding ahead of time also has the advantage of being able to use iTunes as a library , so you can access the files directly from the Apple TV . This applies to other files as well - if you can get them in iTunes compatible format ( basically any mp4/m4v as above ) , your life will be a lot easier , as you can access them directly from the Apple TV , rather than going to your computer and streaming them to the Apple TV . Finally , if you were n't aware of this already , you will need a computer running iTunes on at all times you want to access your library , unless you 're playing files from the iTunes Store or Netflix .
You may use the " service order " functionality of Network pref pane . Go to System Preferences > Network > Click on the gear bellow the network list > Set Service Order ... There you may choose the order of which the networks will be used .
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
No . This is n't a function of the iPhone OS from Apple . If this is n't a short term need , there might be a jailbreak tweak to turn the OS into a fully functioning router / hotspot , but the hardware is n't designed to extend a network as your use case requires .
I had a white MacBook with roughly the same specifics ( except for a 160 GB HD ) and it would n't run so slowly . You can try the following software fixes : Go to System Preferences - > Users and disable unnecessary login items . These items are executed right after login . Go to and disable unnecessary startup items . These items are executed before login , just after boot . This is safe because essential system scripts are not placed there . Do n't touch anything in , instead . Use Activity Monitor and identify third-party daemons and processes that are running in background . Disable/uninstall unnecessary software . Open Console and look for unusual error messages . Clear and . Check and -- if needed -- repair your hard drive . You can do this booting with <URL> . Check and repair permissions with Disk Utility . Go to Dashboard and close unnecessary widgets . Some widgets run in background and use system resources . Only if you know what you 're doing , you could also check third-party kernel extensions . Hardware improvements : Buy a SSD . The spinning hard drive is the greatest bottleneck in modern laptops . If you 're running short of RAM , consider upgrading to 8 GB if your machine supports it ( 4 GB should be enough , though ) .
This can happen with any file type , not just Podcasts , and I 've suffered from this a few times when I move my iTunes library about , especially with TV Shows . The only solution I found was to move the episodes out of the iTunes Media folder , then use the Add to Library in iTunes to add them back in . This forces them to be added to the . itl even if there 's already a malformed entry for that file .
One way to tell if a device has connected to your iTunes is to check the preferences and see if there is a device backup . When you can connect a device to iTunes it creates a backup of the device ( if you are syncing stuff to and from it ) . In your case it sounds like you wan na find out if your books have been syncing to another device . Open iTunes Preferences : Windows : Choose Edit > Preferences Mac : Choose iTunes > Preferences There will be no way for you to see what specifically was sycned , this will only tell you if a device has synced , and when .
In short , the microphone wo n't work as a microphone the way you 're trying it , but the earbuds will . Longer answer ... In order to use the microphone from your iPhone headphones , they must be plugged into the headphones socket . You can see in the images below that the MacBook Pro " Sound " preference pane recognises that they have a microphone and switches the " Built-in Microphone " to the headphones one when they 're in the headphones socket . If you plug the iPhone headphones into the Mic/Line-in socket , it seems to be only set up for a standard stereo 3.5 mm jack , and so will use the earbuds ( both of them ) as microphones -- a stereo microphone effectively ( though they 're not great at picking up sound or well matched to the hardware as microphones , so will require lots of amplification ) . Sound preference pane without the headphones plugged in the headphones socket : Sound preference pane with the headphones plugged in the headphones socket : Plugging the iPhone headphones into the Mic/Line-in socket shows no change ( i.e. looks like the top image ) and having tested it , only the earbuds seem to produce any response in the computer ( i.e. they 're connected but the microphone is n't ) .
Should be possible with <URL> , but I 've only personally used it to send audio between two Macs . They have a Windows version as well , though .
This is not possible . iTunes Match will continue to fill up your storage space as you download tracks locally on the phone through it . I believe it will trim songs once the space is full , to clear off the least-played material . If you would like , you can manage your storage in a few ways : Go to Settings > General > Usage > Music . Here you can clear all downloaded music . Go to the Music app . Locate downloaded material and swipe across artists , albums or songs to remove them from your local storage .
Not exactly but you can use the computer 's ethernet internet connection via Wifi to the iPhone . In that case just go to System Preferences > Sharing , then Select Internet Sharing Select Ethernet in the field Share your connection from Flag Wi-Fi in the field To computers using Go to Wi-Fi Options ... and select a network SSID and a security password Click OK Flag Internet sharing If you are using a pc with windows you can follow the instructions reported <URL> . Basically : Go to Network Connections in your Control Panel by going to Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center and then click Change adapter settings on the menu on the left . Right-click your Internet connection that you want to share ( e.g. , Local Area Connection ) and click Properties . Click the Sharing tab . Check the " Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's Internet connection " option .
Yes . I own a MacBook Pro 3,1 . I installed 6GB memory and have been using it like that for more than two years . Note the specifications below . You can call the tech support people at <URL> if you have any questions . The RAM in my system is as follows : Bank 0 : 2GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz Bank 1 : 4GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz
Yes . I use it on Mountain Lion . Details here : <URL> . It 's not clear to me how Contacts.app is merging Google/iCloud duplicates that arise if you use iCloud , or handling editing of those duplicates . There 's no support for Google Group/Tag relationships or Mac Group/Tag relationships . Nobody has gotten it working on Snow Leopard , though if you want to try that ( do publish ) Hsiaoi 's technique is a good start ( <URL> ) . I suspect SSL is a problem . I believe it also works on Lion but I 've not tested .
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
Everything in your iPhoto Library is stored in ( note that the extension is hidden by default ) . Simply copy that file to whatever Mac you 'd like to move it to . Just make sure you are running the same version of iPhoto in both cases to minimize incompatibility and error . Apple has an <URL> if you are interested .
end question
start question
Will I able to share my internet connection using my MBP 's airport if I am connected to the internet through an external USB Wireless adapter ?
Yes - Macs have internet sharing where you can use one device to get internet and share it from another . Most people in a cabin situation set up an AirPort to let all the devices talk and then you would share from the USB to the physical ethernet port . The router would get to the internet from the ethernet and everyone can join the WiFi and share whether or not the USB modem is dialed . You would set the service order to have the USB modem be the highest connection in the network pane . What you ask is also possible - just share from USB to WiFi and the Mac will create a wireless network the other devices can join .
If you and your kid -- or actually your device and your kid 's device are on the same network , you could simply share your library like this : Go to your iTunes preferences and click on the sharing tab . You can then choose to either share your complete library , or select a playlist to share . On the client iTunes ( your kid 's device ) your shared library should be visible in the top-right corner . You can also find further details on this over here : " <URL> " ( at apple.com ) If you are actually not on a desktop/macbook computer then things are slightly different -- but still possible . Then you may want to check out this article : " <URL> "
A new , better answer . First I used virtual box . Then I used browserstack Now I use parallels Around for a few years but lately made robust and even friendlier . It 's even easier than the others , setup is easier , saving state is easier , keyboard-mouse integration is better . Generally its better . Only item of note is that it cost about $ 80 which should be petty change for most developer who are paid that in an hour or two . Paid software is actually my preference - it gives me some confidence that it will actually be maintained going forward . Plus I 'm a developer ... paying a. . . developer . Seems like a good thing .
Yes it can use iCloud back to my Mac to locate remote Macs behind a NAT router . Also , if your network allows inbound network connections then that also would work over the Internet . And no , ARD is not a service where a client runs on each Mac to tunnel out of more arbitrary network connections as Team Viewer , Citrix/GoToMeeting and other solutions that are designed to have the computer that is " to be controlled " initiate contact with the administrator . For example , setting up the clients over Bonjour will not work if you then try to access the clients over the Internet . Select the scanner . Select the Network Address scanner type , and enter the public/BTMM IP address of the computer . Yes , the client computer will need a " real Internet IP address " for this method to work , or the Back to my Mac address if enabled . To find the Back to my Mac address , make sure that iCloud and Back to my Mac is enabled , then run the following command : The final line shows the account number . Use the following syntax for determining the address : You can find the computer name in System Preferences & rarr ; Sharing .
Mac OS X Mountain Lion supports Internet Sharing using WPA/WPA2 . You will need to upgrade to get this functionality . <URL> . And here is a screenshot of the new option for WPA2 in Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) :
I 'm not aware of a good way to modify the radio broadcast power level on the built-in card on a Mac . However , you may find that setting up a <URL> achieves your goal of limiting the range . Regarding your second question , there have been previous inquiries about changing the WiFi encryption protocol on Mac Ad-Hoc networks from WEP with no results .
pppd automatically registers the PPP network interface upon successful registration ! From my experience performing this on OSX Mavericks 10.9.1 , the / etc/ppp directory starts out empty . Populate / etc/ppp I had to populate it myself , and I did so from my Ubuntu installation which was already configured properly . These are the files I happened to import based on my needs : / etc/ppp/options / etc/ppp/pap-secrets / etc/chatscripts ( optional ) - you only import this if you are using one of these chatscripts yourself . Delete Default Route before running pppd It might help to remove the default route before running pppd to assist in enforcing that the PPP connection becomes the default connection to the internet : note : I found this more of an issue on my Ubuntu installation , but have n't had to this on OSX . Still here are the commands : OSX command : Other Linux : When you disconnect pppd and reconnect your regular internet , the route will be restored .
Not a complete answer , but this document might help : <URL> To be listed as a backup destination , the AFP server must advertise it with specific features and flags turned on . Airport Extreme storage does n't show up because it 's missing something from that list , but the question is what ? I found a reference to the Extreme 's AFP implementation lacking some caching capabilities ( <URL> ) but I have no idea if that 's true . It is plausible that it does n't have the storage required for the replay cache . It 's also plausible that it does have all these features but Apple chose simply not to enable the Time Machine flag . Note that the newest generation ( the big ones with 802.11 ac ) does now officially support Time Machine , so this does n't seem to be an issue anymore . That 's probably because they 're now almost identical to the current Time Capsule inside .
Per Thermaltake support : The Airport Extreme Base Station can not provide the proper driver support for the docking unit . The docking station was designed to be directly connected to a computer 's USB port . Not a very satisfactory answer , but I guess it is the answer . I expected it to simply function as USB 2.0 speeds , rather than not working at all .
No . All of the information has been downloaded therefore it does not need an Internet connection to install . Just make sure you start the install while on wifi because the installer asks a few questions and it may need wifi to process it . Once answering the questions and it starts the actual install you may take the computer away from wifi
As long as you can find them with AirPort Utility you will be able to use them as AirPlay device . I 've used the same setup and you can wirelessly connect them and they will still function as AirPlay device ( they can even make your network more powerful ) Please also check <URL> and <URL> To make your answer complete : you can do this with both versions . If you have no internet connected , you will still be able to let the Express function as Accesspoint . You just wo n't have access to the internet via it , but that 's not weird as you do n't have an input ;)
As long as you log in on both iOS devices with your same login from Apple ( or backup and install them with the same login on your Mac/PC with iTunes ) , you will be able to use the same apps and other data without the need to purchase them again . You can still manage your apps separately for each device : For instance , iTunes will keep them apart ( you get to name each device yourself ) , and you can install different sets of apps and photos , music and all on the devices . But anything that comes from the App Store is linked to your Apple ID login - and once you 've purchase something with your ID , you can install it on all your devices .
In the Photos Settings in the Settings app on your iPhone , you can select optimize storage . Then will it only save often viewed pictures in full quality , and rarely viewed as a thumbnail , if you 're looking at a picture on your iPhone it 'll automatically start to download the picture in best quality .
If you are connecting through the Personal Hotspot on iPhone , it will switch to using the cellular data network that your phone uses . This is the nature of how the Personal Hotspot feature is designed . See <URL> on Apple 's website . So in your case , your laptop was not piggybacking through the wifi connection on iPhone . It 's an unfortunate design choice but as far as I know a current limitation . Maybe with a jailbroken device you could get past that but does n't seem worth it for this case at all .
Yes . You can . However the Apple Mac OS X operating system has SSH installed by default but the SSH daemon is not enabled . This means you ca n't login remotely or do remote copies until you enable it . To enable it , go to ' System Preferences ' . Under ' Internet &amp; Networking ' there is a ' Sharing ' icon . Run that . In the list that appears , check the ' Remote Login ' option . This starts the SSH daemon immediately and you can remotely login using your username . The ' Sharing ' window shows at the bottom the name and IP address to use . You can also find this out using ' whoami ' and ' ifconfig ' from the Terminal application . An app to connect via ssh to your mac is iTerminal and is available free on the App Store at the following address : <URL> To run the server without Internet will be fine . The DCHP server will still allow access with bonjour and manually inputting the IP address of the mac .
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
If you have single WiFi card then you can not use it for receiving and sending WiFi . If your internet comes from cable ( Ethernet ) or from a USB - WiFi , then those can be shared using your WiFi card .
It depends on the <URL> used by your external hard drive . Most likely , the file system is <URL> which allows both Mac and PC to read from and write to it , so you would be fine to just plug it into your Mac . It could however be <URL> which is Microsoft file system that PCs can read and write to but Macs can only read . In this case , you 'll still be able to read all of the files on the drive and copy them to your Mac , you just wi n't be able to add any more files or alter the files while they 're still on the drive . To tell what file system the drive is , just right-click it in Windows and select Properties , the file system should be shown in the General tab . If the drive is NTFS you have a few options : You could <URL> to FAT32 or exFAT . You could install <URL> on your Mac which allows you to write to NTFS drives . You could share wirelessly from your Windows machine . You 'll have to Google this yourself as it 's different for each version of Windows and you have n't said which version you 're using , but it 's fairly easy .
Try pinging the broadcast address . This should work as long as the Pi got an IP from DHCP and responds to ping . First , open up a terminal and run . This should give you the info for your ethernet interface , if not , just use and find it yourself . Make a note of the broadcast address . In my case , it 's 192.168.2.255 : So I 'll run the command . Do the same with your broadcast address , and hit CTRL-C to stop the ping once you have some results : The broadcast is intended to go out to everything on the network . Everything that hears it should respond . In my case , I only see my IP and my router 's - I guess it did n't bother passing the request on to my other machines , but you 're directly connected to the Pi so you should see it there .
Once you have purchased something in the App Store , you can always download it again without paying ( This is the same on the Mac App Store and iOS ) . You will see it in your ' purchases ' tab in the Mac App Store . So once you use your redemption code , you have ' purchased ' it , and can install it whenever you need it .
end question
start question
Is it possible to generate promo codes for in app purchases ?
<URL> , promo codes can only be redeemed for apps themselves and not In App Purchases : Promo codes do n't work for In-App Purchase products , including issues for apps in the Magazines &amp; Newspapers category . Update : It 's <URL> since October 28 , 2016 , see <URL> . <URL>
Firstly , you must bear in mind that each In-App Purchase is uniquely associated with an Apple ID and that there are different In-App Purchase types : Consumable - You need to purchase these items every time you want them , and you ca n't download them again for free . Non-Consumable - You purchase these items one time , and you can transfer them to multiple devices authorized with the same iTunes Store account . Non-renewing Subscriptions - You can purchase these items again after the subscription period ends . Auto-Renewable Subscriptions - You can purchase these items with different renewal periods . There are , therefore , differences in the way the availability of the product is handled . As stated on Apple 's <URL> : You ca n't sync or transfer non-renewing subscriptions and consumable In-App Purchase to another iOS device or Mac . You can transfer non-consumable In-App Purchases and auto-renewable subscriptions to another iOS device or Mac authorized with your iTunes Store account . For example , if you transfer a game from an iPhone to an iPod touch , only the game levels will sync , and the extra ammo and experience points wo n't transfer .
No , once and App has been deleted , either by you or because of the expiration process , you can not reuse your SKU or app name in the same account again . It can be used , though , by another developer . Under the <URL> section of the iTunes Connect Developer Guide you 'll learn more about the ramifications of an App Deletion .
Per the <URL> If a credit card or your PayPal account is being used for a transaction , Apple may obtain preapproval for an amount up to the amount of the order . Billing occurs at the time of or shortly after your transaction . If you are using 1-Click purchasing or your PayPal account , your order may be authorized and billed in increments during one purchasing session , so it may appear as multiple orders on your statement . If an iTunes Card , iTunes Store Gift Certificate , or Allowance Account is used for a transaction , the amount is deducted at the time of your transaction . When making purchases , content credits are used first , followed by Gift Certificate , iTunes Card , or Allowance Account credits ; your credit card or PayPal account is then charged for any remaining balance .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
Are you just using the dictation feature ( the microphone button on the keyboard ) , or sending email or texts/iMessages through Siri ( holding down the home button , telling Siri to send a message ... ) ? If you 're using the Siri function , when it prompts you if you want to send it , you can ask Siri to " read it to me " or " review it " and it will be read back to you . If you 're just using the dictation ( which technically is n't Siri ) , your best option is to use VoiceOver , as <URL> .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
Yes , in both the iBooks and Kindle apps , you can search the full text ( excluding text in images ) of the book you are currently reading . Here 's how to do that in each app : iBooks app While reading a book , tap the screen . A magnifying glass icon becomes visible in the top right , along with other controls . Clicking the magnifying glass icon brings up a search box . After entering your search term in the box , iBooks presents a list of results from the current book , underneath the search box . Kindle app Similarly , while reading a book , tap the screen . At the bottom a magnifying glass icon will become visible . It works much like the iBooks search feature . What about searching across all books ? If you wanted to know whether you can enter a search term at the top-level of these apps and have them search across all books stored in the app : No , currently neither iBooks nor the Kindle app have such a feature . However , I have seen this capability on the Kindle device itself -- I own a Kindle keyboard model and there is a " search my items " option available that will search all books on the device for a given term .
You need to drag a tab - Safari wo n't let you drag an entire window into another one . You can hit ⌘ T to create a new empty tab ( thus making the tab interface visible ) , then drag your original tab to the other window .
Natively no , the iPhone is limited to what is parable to it , and the functions once it is paired . . With a jailbroken iPhone there may be some third party software out there .
Yes ! After you purchase and download Lion from the App Store , the " Install " screen will appear : Before you click Continue , open your Applications folder and look for the icon labelled Install Mac OS X Lion : If you missed this chance ( and the App is deleted from your system ) , you can always re-download the package using the App Store app . Even if it shows Lion Installed , you can hold the option key pressed , then press the button to re-download the Lion installer app . Right-click ( or Ctrl + Click ) on this and choose Show Package Contents . Navigate to Contents > SharedSupport and look for InstallESD.dmg . Use Disk Utility ( in the Utilities folder inside the Applications folder ) to burn InstallESD.dmg to a DVD . Drag the InstallESD.dmg file to the Disk Utility window , select it , then choose Burn ... from the Images menu . A dialog appears allowing you to burn it to a DVD . The name of the DVD does n't really matter , but I named mine Mac OS X Lion .
No , unless you buy a specific mouse The option to define custom mouse acceleration curves was present in OS X 10.4 , but apple simplified it in 10.5 , and removed it entirely in 10.6 . <URL> is a supposedly forthcoming pref-pane that completely replaces the OS X mouse HID kext . However , development is really slow , or stalled . Personally , I have poked about a bit in the kernel myself , but am unfamiliar with kernel programming . Fixing the mouse acceleration on OS X will at minimum require a custom kext , which is non-trivial to code . The option that is out there is to buy a Microsoft mouse , and use it on OS X. Microsoft has released <URL> for their mice that <URL> . Essentially , the windows " Enhance Pointer Precision " option applies linear velocity-based acceleration to the mouse movements , e.g. the distance moved is proportional to the speed the mouse moves . Think of it as basically having the DPI of the mouse inversely proportional to the mouse 's speed . OS X on the other hand , has a stepped acceleration curve , where the mouse moves at one DPI when slow , and another when moved faster then a threshold . There are pref-panes that let you disable OS X 's acceleration curve , but none that allow you to substitute windows . As far as I can tell ( and this is opinion ) , this curve is optimized for trackpads . In my opinion , it is more then useless for mice ( using a mac mouse actually damaged my mousing efficacy on windows , which really affects my work ( CAD Stuff ) ) . Personally , I have entirely dispensed with the idea of using a mouse on OS X , and ust bought a Magic Trackpad .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
I 've found a great <URL> on that . It shows a list of every app that is compatible with any given iOS version . Do n't try to download the app from them , though , just get the name of it and find it on the App Store .
As far as I know , there would be no way for scripts to directly access the data in a Bento database , so you would need to manually export that data every time you need to update the website . If you do n't have too many sets of data , or if the site does n't need to be updated too frequently , this might work well for you . Also , Bento is fairly limited when it comes to building relational databases . It can handle flat databases and very simple relationships , but lacks the ability to set up complex relationships between tables . If you do n't need complex relationships , and manually exporting your data is acceptable , then Bento would be a viable option that 's relatively inexpensive and fairly easy to learn and use . On the other hand , FileMaker Pro is very scriptable , allowing for almost complete control through both its own internal scripting language as well as through AppleScript . It also handles much more complex relationships . Of course , this advanced feature set also comes with a higher learning curve ( and price tag ) . However , FileMaker does have a large and active community of users that are very helpful , and there are plenty of tutorials and sample databases to help get you up to speed . While FileMaker does have built-in web publishing , there is a limit of 5 concurrent users unless you get FileMaker Server , or host your database on a 3rd party FileMaker hosting service .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
<URL> , promo codes can only be redeemed for apps themselves and not In App Purchases : Promo codes do n't work for In-App Purchase products , including issues for apps in the Magazines &amp; Newspapers category . Update : It 's <URL> since October 28 , 2016 , see <URL> . <URL>
end question
start question
Can iPhone 6 tell if a surface is horizontal ?
Yes you can . Find a surface that you trust to to be level Open the compass/spirit level app and place phone on it Tap the screen while phone is placed on the surface - this will recalibrate the accelerometer reading on your iphone6 implicitly taking into account the camera bump as well . Go measure the things you want to measure :) There is a catch to this , as it does assume that the surface is wide enough to place an iPhone 6 down with the camera bump touching the surface .
This should do the trick : Edit your contact card on your phone ( in the Contacts application ) ; Change the label of your old address to anything you want ; Set the label of your new address to " home "
Have n't tried with text messages , but with Whatsapp and emails it does , unfortunately :( So to answer the second part of your question , yes notifications vibrates during call .
On safari open Inspector - > Resource Tab - > on right hand panel you can see Scheme : will be HTTPS if https or HTTP if secure . <URL>
I do n't know about permanently , but you can hold down the option key when clicking on a link , and that will always download it instead of opening it . Similarly , if you put a URL into the address bar and type option-return , that will download it as well .
Basically you need a <URL> , some of them was made specially for use with Apple mouses : <URL> They say it 's made by company located at Cupertino , California . Also it works ( as a surface ) . <URL> It 's basically just a piece of finished aluminum and I guess it will feel the same as a top surface MacBook . <URL> says that something 's weird with their delivery , but maybe it 's <URL> . It 's also reviewed on <URL> . <URL> They clim it 's made exclusively for Apple products and there are a couple of positive reviews on Youtube for this one <URL> and <URL> . They say that the surface is pleasant on touch . a Better Table Consider finding a better table than one that you use now . Just grab your MacBook and mouse and go furniture shop that you like and find a table which fits you the best . You will get biggest possible working surface and as a bonus you can improve ergonomics of your workplace . And of course keep your table clean ( I know it 's hard . I have a cat :) .
Erasing All Contents and Settings ( what most people call " factory reset " ) does not change/remove your operating system . Whatever OS you had installed prior to the reset will remain after your iPhone reboots .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
It 's quite easy to see indeed . If the two images match ( left ) , all photos were uploaded to the Photo Stream . If they do n't match ( right ) , some pictures have n't uploaded yet . NB : Photo Stream will only work over Wi-Fi , syncing only the latest 1,000 pictures taken in the last 30 days .
Your mac ( and mine too ) is not compatible with airdrop between mac and iOS System Requirements To see if your Mac works with AirDrop , make sure you 're in the Finder by clicking the desktop ( the background area of your screen ) , or by clicking the Finder icon in the Dock . Then , check to see if AirDrop is listed as an option in the Go menu . If you do n't see AirDrop listed , your Mac does n't support this feature . In order to transfer files between a Mac and and an iPhone , iPad or iPod touch your iOS device needs to include a lightning connector your iOS device needs iOS 7 or later installed your Mac needs to be a 2012 or later model with OS X Yosemite installed Your Mac and iOS device both need bluetooth and Wi-Fi turned on . You do not have to be connected to a specific Wi-Fi network source : <URL>
Why yes , it can , as a matter of fact . Follow <URL> to hear some high quality jokes on your Mac . Open up Speech Recognition in your system settings . Enable " Speakable Items " Enable " Speak Command Acknowledgement " Set up the rest however you like ( in regards to key press or keyword for input ) . When you 're ready , say " Tell me a joke . " ( Or , if you have a keyword " tell me a joke " . ) Enjoy ! ( Tested in Lion , although this has been around for quite some time . )
The new Web Inspector was made to be a bit closer to Xcode . There is no direct way to get the old one back , without reverting to other means . For example : running Lion in a VM ( to run an older Safari ) . Running a nightly build of WebKit - but this may only have the new inspector Using Chrome ( while still WebKit , it still uses something that seemed closer to me like the old inspector ) . So no , at this time , it does n't look like its possible to revert back to an ' older ' version of the inspector . The best bet would be to submit bugs at <URL> . If it is missing features that the old one had , possibly future revisions would bring some of this back .
Apple does n't expose iCloud backups directly to end users via computer or web interface , but you can restore that backup onto pretty much any other iOS device . The new iPhone ( or any iOS device for that matter ) has iOS version the same or newer than the version backed up from the stolen phone . Simply erase all content on the current device ( losing everything in it ) and restore your old backup onto the device . Hopefully , have not " created " much new data on your new phone and do n't have to write down many new contacts or items or export any documents before you erase it . However , you could always back that device up to the same or different iCloud account or to iTunes and restore that once you 've gotten your data to a more portable form .
You can right-click ( control-click ) on the folder name in the Titlebar of the Finder window and select a parent folder and or you can expose the Path Bar in Finder ( View > Show Path Bar ) and select a parent folder from there . Also from the Sidebar you can right-click ( control-click ) on the Favorites name and select Open Enclosing Folder , although this opens another Finder window whereas the previous suggestions stay within the same Finder window . Additionally one should become familiar with the keyboard shortcuts of Finder which one can see shown on each menu in Finder , particularly the Go menu . Like , Command -- Up Arrow as mentioned by Ivan Chau in the OP comments . Note : See Finder shortcuts in : <URL>
Make sure you do n't have in any of the forms . This is the primary way that a website can tell a browser not to save passwords . By default , if the website does n't have anything , the browser will be happy to save passwords , so odds are that your website contains something like that somewhere .
Before seeking a repair , you might want to do some troubleshooting of your own . Sometimes a runaway process can cause an iPhone to overheat . Chris Breen provides some tips in <URL> . I solved a problem I had with my own overheating iPhone 4 by wiping the phone and reinstalling the OS . I did a fresh install , I did n't restore the phone from a backup . ( This was when iOS 5 was first release , many of these problems have been sorted out now by OS updates . ) If you ca n't solve the problem yourself the next step is to take the phone to an authorized Apple repair center , in general an Apple Store . Which brings the warranty into play : From Apple 's ( US ) <URL> for the iPhone 4 This warranty does not apply : ( a ) to consumable parts , such as batteries or protective coatings that are designed to diminish over time , unless failure has occurred due to a defect in materials or workmanship ; ( b ) to cosmetic damage , including but not limited to scratches , dents and broken plastic on ports ; ( c ) to damage caused by use with another product ; ( d ) to damage caused by accident , abuse , misuse , liquid contact , fire , earthquake or other external cause ; ( e ) to damage caused by operating the Apple Product outside They 're not going to cover damage caused by misuse and they 're not obligated to replace parts to fix cosmetic damage made by the user , though they will if its is a manufacturing or design fault . Your attitude when dealing with the Genius/Repair Tech may influence the outcome so I advocate being polite , pleasant and not acting like you are entitled to extra service . If the damage is as you describe , I doubt you 'll have any difficulties . In general , it is my experience that Apple tries to err on the side of the consumer . If the damage is worse than you describe and the repair tech feels that it in some way responsible for the overheating , then service may be refused . If that happens and you feel this is unfair , escalate to the store manager and Apple Customer Relations as you feel appropriate . You can reach Customer Relations through just about any <URL> by asking for that department by name . In all likelihood , you 're making a mountain out of a mole hill . Take the phone in and have an Apple tech have a look . You 'll most likely be pleasantly surprised . See also , Gigaom : <URL>
I can not find a direct source to note when Apple started making audio output ports toslink enabled . But to answer your other questions : Almost all macs since 2006 do support this , and looking at the product page for each model will tell you exactly . If it supports toslink , it supports surround sound <URL> .
The information you are looking for is easily available in Chrome ( v35 ) . Just click on the lock icon in the browser location bar and the cipher suite details are there . But you asked about Safari . Clicking on the lock icon in Safari 7.0.4 only gives a fraction of what you get in Chrome . I thought there might be more in Safari Developer Tools but came up empty . What worked for me was to use a network packet inspector ( I used <URL> installed through <URL> ) . WireShark will allow you to examine all the network traffic including the " Client Hello " message where Safari lists the cipher suites it supports ( the list is 37 items long and matches the list you linked to from Qualsys ) . A little further down you can see the " Server Hello " message . In this response the server will respond with the name of the best cipher suite that they both share . The screenshot below is from WireShark . I have set up a filter to only show packets to and from IP addresses corresponding to ' www.google.com ' . Then I started recording and then loaded the google home page under https in Safari . You can see that the negotiated cipher suite between google and Safari is . Further down in the transcript ( not shown ) I found packets relating to to " Change Cipher Spec " , but this does n't appear ( from what I can tell ) to change the selected suite .
You can use the following AppleScript : I would save this AppleScript as application and execute it whenever you want : Open the application " AppleScript Editor " in the Utility folder . Paste the code above . Set " podcast_name " to the name of the podcast you want to update . Save the Apple Script as application . To schedule this AppleScript , you can get hints at the <URL> I found .
As far as I can tell there is no way to tell if you are using a single device . However if you have more than one device that is Handoff enabled then you can be reasonably certain that if a screen within an app makes Handoff visible to another device then you can tell Siri to " Remind me about this " and a reminder will be created .
end question
start question
Is bash in OSX case-insensitive ?
This is actually a feature of the filesystem of your disk , not bash or Terminal.app . HFS + ( the Mac filesystem ) is usually configured to be case insensitive but case preserving . This means that the file system will consider and to be the same , but when you create a new file it will remember which letters where capitalized and which were not . When you format a disk with HFS + you can chose whether the file system should case sensitive or not . If you chose to format with UFS ( Unix FileSystem ) it is always case sensitive , AFAIK . To check whether a disk is case sensitive , run : For example : Look for the line . If it reads something like it means that it is case-sensitive . If it just reads ( without the ) then it is only case preserving but not case sensitive .
BBEdit 's latest release is REALLY good . I first encountered BB way back in the day on OS7 , and it was more editor than I needed at the time , and it only confused me . Since then I 've become a much heavier-duty text editor user , and when they brought out a new release a couple months ago I pulled the trigger . It 's EXCELLENT . Every feature I 've wanted , it 's had for me , waiting to discover . Ca n't recommend it highly enough . You can find it on the App Store .
You can disable Gatekeeper in System Preferences : This removes the warnings about opening files downloaded from the internet : It does n't affect the dialogs about <URL> though . You can run Finder as root with , but it 's not really meant to be done permanently .
Its on the app store : <URL> You can reinstall it from there .
An out-of-the-box possibility would be to use Spaces to define applications to go to a specific screen on launch , and navigate between Spaces ( Virtual Desktops ) as a whole . Note , however , that you will have a conflict if you want the Finder to be in two places at once :) . Your only option is one specific Space , or globally across all Spaces .
Go to the Finder and type command + shift + a . That will get you to your applications ( hence the " a " ) . QuickTime and iMovie should both be there .
After some research i found <URL> , which perfectly detailed explains how to get this hidden setting : Open the system preferences Hold down the command and option keys while clicking the display icon Next locate the screen adjustments on the external monitor and you will notice now there is an option called " Rotation " . Choose 90 Degrees and now your monitor is in portrait mode . Thanks roadzy and <URL> !
This is actually a feature of the filesystem of your disk , not bash or Terminal.app . HFS + ( the Mac filesystem ) is usually configured to be case insensitive but case preserving . This means that the file system will consider and to be the same , but when you create a new file it will remember which letters where capitalized and which were not . When you format a disk with HFS + you can chose whether the file system should case sensitive or not . If you chose to format with UFS ( Unix FileSystem ) it is always case sensitive , AFAIK . To check whether a disk is case sensitive , run : For example : Look for the line . If it reads something like it means that it is case-sensitive . If it just reads ( without the ) then it is only case preserving but not case sensitive .
Per <URL> : " Every measurement , right down to the 3.95 ounce weight and 0.30-inch thickness , is identical to the iPhone 5 . " Visually from looking at photos the ports , buttons , etc. are all identically placed . Also , one of the image captions in that article : " The leather cases for the iPhone 5S will also fit the iPhone 5 . This should also hopefully mean that third-party cases for the iPhone 5 will continue to fit the 5S . " The only possible issue would be the iPhone 5 LED flash vs the 5s ' dual-LED flash . But as long as the cut-out on the third-party case looks like Apple 's does ( i.e. it goes around the camera and the LED in one cut-out ) , there should n't be any reason they do n't fit .
This kind of data is frequently stored in . User-specific settings are frequently stored in Your Chrome profile is located at . I recommend going on a little exploration of the ~ / Library folder ; there 's a lot of useful stuff in there .
Customize Preview ( easy ) Have you looked under Preview preferences ? You can set Initial Document Scale to 100 % or larger if you want . You might need to adjust the option below that , defining size equal to screen or print sizes . Use a better PDF viewer If Preview.app ca n't do what you want , look into Skim.app Skim has an option to open PDFs as Default , Maximized , or Fit . One of these ought to improve . Customize Preview ( complex ) If you want all three points requested above and want them in Preview.app , I would do the following : Turn on Universal Access so you can script applications via the GUI Make a new app in Automator that accepts PDFs . Replace Preview with this ( open with this by default , put it in your dock so you can drag-and-drop onto it , etc. ) The new app should simply take the input PDF and pass it to Preview , so it displays there The new app should then use Universal Access commands to Maximize the window Set to " Single Continuous Page " Select the mouse tool you want .
You may want to run Software Update . It could be that you 're missing a SMC update , which addresses freezing at ( continuous ) high CPU loads : <URL> Or this EFI update : <URL>
Both shell - and AppleScripts can be used just about anywhere either is appropriate . AppleScripts work better when talking to apps and user-level system facilities . ( For instance , you can say and it will , or . ) Shell scripts ( you referred to bash ) work better when talking to low-level system objects and Unixy stuff . They 're both interoperable : you can call a shell command from AppleScript with and you can call AppleScript code from the shell with . Further , there 's quite a bit of overlap between the two ( especially when it comes to file system operations ) . There are certainly more resources for learning shell scripting online than AppleScript and it does n't help that AppleScript has a reputation for being a " read-only " language ( i.e. , harder to write than read ) . In any case , the most modern way to do scripting is with Automator , where you can use either shell - or AppleScripting ( or both ) along with pre-built modules from various apps you have installed .
Continuous scrolling is available for iBooks on iOS but not the Mac . The Mac version of iBooks only allows pagination .
is probably the same as . If the current shell is bash , you can see its version with . If you change the default login shell with chsh , you can keep Terminal 's default shell as the login shell . Add to Open a new tab and check
Sorry , Apple does n't allow people to change the mouse cursor anymore .
By default , HFS + in OS X is case-insensitive . You have to specifically erase a partition and select case-sensitive for a partition to be case-sensitive . It 's not that common , but there is software which requires case-insensitive HFS + . It 's more common for legacy software to require case-sensitive HFS + . Of course , software should work on both , and most newer software does . The Acrobat restriction feels like a way to avoid unreproducible bug reports from users using ( awkward ) case-sensitive volumes .
An open-source , cross-platform solution is <URL> I did n't try it , but it has a good amount of users on iusethis .
According to <URL> , and were removed when Apple released OS X for Intel processors . The ( excellent ) article also explains how to reenable the memory devices , namely using the kernel boot argument . To set it , open Terminal , type : and reboot . The article was written in May 2006 , but the Mavericks 10.9.2 kernel still supports the option . After a reboot I saw these two devices : If your Mac wo n't boot or you have any issues , reset the NVRAM by pressing ⌘ optionPR and holding the keys down until you hear the startup sound for the second time , as explained in " Resetting NVRAM / PRAM " in <URL> . If you wish to reset the argument , type and check that does not print any results .
George Garside 's path is correct . Latest JDK released today from Oracle . I advise downloading directly from <URL> . Use the symlink to create your variable . Add the following to your or profile . Just downloaded the kit and added the above to my . As you can see , variable is now clearly defined : Returns :
end question
start question
How to determine what type of SSD drive is supported for a Macbook ?
Jfw is right , until now apple only supports their official SSD . While there are some ways to open SSD trim support on 3rd party SSD , when I used these solutions I encountered some weird problems . Besides the trim support problem , some capability problems can be solved by updating SSD 's firmware . I currently use an Intel 320 300g SSD and installed lion without trim support , it has been working wonderfully . Before I bought the Intel SSD , I had considered OWC 's products and I think their products are good on capability , however since I am live outside of the United States I did n't choose it .
There are definitely no moving parts . I would n't worry about jogging with it . I would n't even worry about jogging with a non-flash drive equipped laptop if it was turned off . The drive spindles and heads are immobile when the drive is powered down . For a pack , look for something that suspends the laptop away from the sides . Preferably holding it in something that 'll absorb the shock a bit .
On iOS , HTML5 's local storage is not available in private browsing mode , which means you can detect it by attempting to save something to local storage and catching the exception with the following JavaScript : Modified from <URL> On OS X , there 's not really a canonical method , but this should provide some useful information : <URL> If you 're looking for implementation guidance , you should probably try Stack Overflow instead
Why not use Disk Utility to write zeroes or if you have more time , interest in being sure it works repeatable , set it to write more passes of random data . The drive will report IO errors in the system.log if there are hardware errors . If you have an SSD or want a tool to read back the random bits to ensure everything not only wrote properly , but can be read back with perfect fidelity , see the free tool <URL> written by <URL> . You might also like to read over <URL>
Edit : this also should work for El Capitan with a 6.33 GB + partition Currently the best way seems to be through , which is also <URL> . First create a partition on the USB key with <URL> : then in the terminal use the command . It can be found in the Maverick install apk . By default the path is . Replace with your own partition name : The output should be along these lines : The setup should take few to few dozens minutes depending on your USB drive . To create a USB installer for multiple OS X versions you can to go through the following procedure : Start disk utility Create multiple partitions formatted as . Give them names like : OS X Lion : OS X Mountain Lion : OS X Mavericks : Generate multiple install partitions using the tool of each OX 10.9 + version and add the other install partitions using disktool : restore the InstallESD.dmg from to restore the InstallESD.dmg from to From experience here is the data usage for each OS X version : OSX 10.6 Snow Leopard : 7.19 GB OSX 10.7 Lion : 4.78 GB ( requires 6.13 GB ) OSX 10.8 Mountain Lion : 4.48 GB OSX 10.9 Mavericks : 5.4 GB OSX 10.10 Yosemite : 5.25 GB OSX 10.11 El Capitan : 6.33 GB macOS Sierra : 4.84 GB
is an application that will show you hardware information to determine which bus the CD drive is connected . Once you know your hardware specifications , you can shop better . Check <URL> and <URL> for housings that work physically with SATA connectors . Also check <URL> on the issues you might face moving to an SSD / HD combination .
Go to Settings - > Notifications on your iPhone and then look in the section Not In Notification Center . If there are any apps listed there , you can see if notification is turned on or off for them . If any are turned on , you can turn them off one by one to see which one is trying to get your attention . You may also be able to see badge numbers changing on one of your apps which would be a clue that there might be a notification too .
In general , extended warranty plans are a healthy-sized profit center for the company offering them . This implies that unless a product turns out to be less reliable than predicted , on average ( mean average ) customers will be better off paying for their own repairs without the warranty . However , if one ca n't afford to self-insure for abnormal or even normal deviations from the average , something like AppleCare will lessen the downside financial risks . Thus , I suggest ( and buy ) AppleCare only if an Apple product seems to be getting numbers of reports of below average reliability ( e.g. the Duo 2xx and PowerBook 5x00 product lines ) . For other Apple products , maybe put the money in a savings account instead , and there is a good likelyhood that you 'll end up ahead after a decade or two of Apple products .
Yes , it 's possible to replace your internal SATA drive with an SSD . <URL> guide to make sure you have all the tools/space to do that , it 's not hard , but it requires you to be careful and do it with patience , especially when removing the screen ( which must be done using suction cups ) . You can replace the Optical Drive with a Data Doubler and install any SATA drive in it . For example using the <URL> . Plan all this ahead , since you only want to do the iMac disassembly once . ;) Make sure that the Data Doubler is compatible with your model ( if not available you might have to wait a few weeks before they release a compatible model , it has always been like that ) . That way you 'll have an additional SSD Drive . Regarding the second part of your question , yes , you can either put the original drive ( 1TB ) in the Optical Drive and put the SSD where the original HDD was or you can install the SSD in the Data Doubler and boot from there . You can always install OS X in the SSD , boot from it , migrate some information from your 1TB drive and when you 're ready , format the old 1TB drive and use it as a secondary drive for whatever evil purposes you want , like to store your Home Folder ( search Ask Different for instructions on how to do that ) .
Yes - at the moment - those link speeds are the theoretical maximum speed at which data can transfer to or from those devices . The EFI firmware version on your MacBook Pro controls these link speeds as well as many other aspects of CPU throttling , so without reverse engineering that code - it 's hard to know what or why the link may re-negotiate at a different speed . In the past , <URL> to increase SATA link speeds for third party drives when they have done the engineering to make sure it will be stable enough - even if they do n't support those drives . Of course they also release updates to improve their OEM parts in terms of speed and reliability so you can monitor those link speeds as well as your actual bottlenecks and <URL> if you feel things are not optimally configured - especially if you have some benchmarks or other data to show that case .
As far as I am aware you can replace the battery and HDD/SSD on most MacBook Pro models . Have a look at the manuals on <URL> . <URL> : You can replace the battery like <URL> And the SSD like <URL> . <URL> : I think the last HDD MacBook Pro . No retina display , but you can replace the optical drive and use a 2nd HDD/SSD instead .
I once was in a similar situation to what you described -- I 'm an American and brought my U.S. MacBook to the UK . A couple observations : U.S. keyboard layouts are substantially different from the UK ones . Many common punctuation characters , including quote marks , are mapped very differently . I found UK keyboards too awkward to use and did virtually all of my work on my own U.S. keyboards . U.S. keyboards do not include the pound sterling symbol or the negation symbol used in the UK . You can get them by using Option key combinations , but that can be a bit of a pain . As bmike mentioned , if you need a keyboard repair you 'll face a substantial delay . Someone spilled a drink on my MacBook in a pub towards the end of my stay , and about a third of the keyboard was shorted out ; when I took it in to an Apple Store , they warned me they would need to hold the computer for several days while replacement parts arrived . I could n't spare the laptop for that length of time , so I spent the last couple weeks of that trip using an external keyboard with my MacBook , and repaired it when I got home . ( That option , of course , wo n't be available to you . ) All in all , I do n't think I would recommend it for you . That # 150 is buying you freedom from a lot of hassles .
While <URL> is a bit old , it still works This gives you a decent GUI interface to control default apps
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
You can do it from the substitutions list in System Prefs > Keyboard > Text , as in the example below . The brackets are there in the example purely to make it file to the top [ otherwise it gets mixed in with all my personal ones &amp; I 'd have to blur them all out ] Just hit the + button at the bottom , type to enter your trigger , then double click in the result field &amp; type your desired output string . If you copy/paste into the output string , you can include carriage returns , for a full postal address etc , but you ca n't insert them manually . Once setup , as soon as you hit the spacebar after a trigger keyword , it will auto-replace . Toggling ' correct spelling automatically ' will change whether it suggests it to you before you 've finished typing or not - as soon as it 's recognised the correct replacement , space will trigger it , if ' auto ' is on . To avoid triggers which would otherwise be possibly confusing I always use ncsomething , historically because my originals used to be stored on NoteCards , but also now because I know of no word in English that starts with nc . So ncemail generates my email address , ncmobile for my phone number etc etc. . . I 've found over the years that using a distinct word is easier to remember than a very short abbreviation , unless it 's one you use a lot . As a bonus , you can also use it for spelling mistakes that are n't usually picked up by the normal spell-checker ... For example I frequently type pice instead of piece ; for some reason spellcheck never picks that up so now it 's in my substitutions list . iCould is also one that gets past the checker , so I have one to fix that too , back to iCloud Any changes you make to the substitutions list are ' live ' immediately , you do n't even need to close the window .
You can find this information along with much other battery and/or system information from the command This command , according to its man page , does : ioreg displays the I/O Kit registry . It shows the heirarchical1 registry structure as an inverted tree . 1 : heirarchical [ sic ] Using a filter by class name ( for battery ) to get only battery-related information : From . Will print something like this : The field you are looking for is . For convenience , filter it out with ( unit is milliamp-hours , or mAh ) : Your field may not display as its value . I 'm using a 13 " mid-2014 rMBP , but you may be using another system with different battery ratings . Apart from battery information , can be used to find out more about your system and other peripherals - somewhat like a command-line System Information tool . If you 're looking for a code-implementation of this command , take a look at <URL> . It 's one of the coolest Swift libraries I know of . Disclaimer : not affiliated to SystemKit or Beltex . Just a happy user of SystemKit .
In the " unusual " camp there 's a program called <URL> that purports to turn your trackpad into a Wacom-like tablet . They also sell a special stylus and sketching software . For music there 's <URL> , which allows you to create music using trackpad for input , and <URL> , a DJ ' ing app that lets you " scratch " records with your trackpad .
I usually place the lighter drive in the optical bay since it 's not as securely connected to the body as the intended HDD slot . This also plays into the rubber shock mounts for the HDD which both protect it from accelerations as well as isolating/dampening whatever vibration the drive motors cause . As phrased , you may get a null answer since there may not be any issues with either placement . Macs can boot from external drives and have no problems writing the sleep image to an external USB or Thunderbolt drive since the OS wants to keep the system on one drive . The only issues I 've seen are people using links to place some of the core OS and support files on a secondary drive rather than just placing user files ( home folders ) and safer documents on a manual/fixed tiered storage system . With core storage and Apple 's broad support of any SSD to comprise a FusionDrive the need to micromanage what files live on which tier of storage might hopefully become a thing of the past .
Use the default ( case-insensitive ) unless you both a ) know what you 're doing and b ) you absolutely have to . There are several programs ( Norton Antivirus comes to mind ) that wo n't work properly on a case-sensitive file system . HFS is , by default , case-insensitive but case-preserving ( i.e. it does n't care what you type for comparison purposes , but it will remember what you type ) .
I 've re-installed the OS many times since , so the original issue no longer bugs me . But I did find a third party application " Shortcut Detective " ( <URL> ) that comes very close .
end question
start question
Can OS X access files in my Dropbox account without using space on my local hard drive ?
The short answer to this is : No . As far as I 'm aware , you ca n't mount your Dropbox account as some sort of remote file share - its synced files are always written to your local disk . That said , you can change the location of the Dropbox folder away from its default of , so if you have a separate internal or external disk you could put the Dropbox folder there . You may encounter problems if Dropbox occasionally ca n't access the detached volume holding its folder , however . See <URL> : Your Dropbox folder must be available when your computer boots and before the Dropbox desktop application starts . Some USB drives , for example , take some time to mount before your computer recognizes them . The Dropbox desktop application could start before such a drive is ready and get confused . You will receive an error and Dropbox will give you the opportunity to relink your Dropbox account or exit if it is unable to find your Dropbox folder .
The Image Capture application can do this for you . Just connect your printer and launch the application . It comes with OS X. Image borrowed from : <URL> . You can also find instructions there under the heading How to scan .
I recommend using the Shared Folders feature in VMware Fusion . I have a Boot Camp partition as well running Windows 7 . When I need to access files that are on the Mac OS X side from within Windows , I go the VM preferences and enable each folder I want to share ( you can share multiple folders form different locations ) . All shared folders will then be shown on the Z :\ drive in Windows . Hope this helps .
Manage Torrent Downloads I have my BitTorrent client ( Transmission ) set up to watch a shared Dropbox directory for incoming . torrent files , so I can start a new torrent download from anywhere I happen to be . ( GoodReader for iOS has some great file management capabilities , including uploading to Dropbox . )
Yes , the content on iCloud is separate from any particular device ( except Backup ) and can be accessed from a different device regardless of what happened to the original . You wo n't be able to access all your iCloud data without an iPhone or Mac though ( e.g. Safari History and other app data ) .
<URL> : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , and then click Users &amp; Groups . Click the lock icon to unlock it , and then type an administrator name and password . Select Guest User in the list of accounts . To let a guest user log in to the computer , select " Allow guests to log in to this computer . " However , guest users ca n't log in remotely . If you let guests log in , you can also set up parental controls for guests by selecting " Enable parental controls " and clicking Open Parental Controls . For more information about the limits you can set , see this help topic : <URL> To let guests use your shared folders and their contents from another computer on your network , select " Allow guests to connect to shared folders . "
I have 2 mac : 1 office running OS X 10.9 , Mavericks , and 1 personal running OS X 10.10 , Yosemite . My files in OS X 10.10 , Yosemite are not showing but in OS X 10.9 , Mavericks they are still present . Try logging in from another Mac running OS X 10.9 and you might find them there and be able to take a copy , as this is what I am doing right now .
Where is the iTunes library directory ? What is its filesystem location ? Go to iTunes > Preferences ... Choose the Advanced tab . There you will find the path to your iTunes folder . If I move my library from the laptop and to an external USB-connected drive , will my music and TV shows still play ? Yes , if iTunes knows where to find them . See following question . I 'd like to keep some of my music on the local drive so I can actually listen to it when I 'm out and do n't have the external drive with me . Is there a way to do that ? Under the Advanced tab in the preferences , make sure Keep iTunes Media folder organized is checked . Choose Change ... next to iTunes Media folder location to choose a new location on your external drive . Then click OK . Now go to File > Library > Organize Library , select Consolidate files and click OK . iTunes will now copy your files to your external hard drive . The files on your internal drive will be retained . Go to your original iTunes Media folder on your internal drive and drag it to the Trash . Do not empty the trash before making sure that you can quit and relaunch iTunes and play songs without any trouble . Now move any music files you want to be on your internal drive to a folder on your internal drive . When you move these files , iTunes will not be able to find them , as iTunes will look for them in the folder on your external drive . This will result in dead listings with exclamation marks if you try to play them . See this answer to remove dead listings : <URL> . Now go to iTunes > Preferences ... and to the Advanced tab again . Uncheck Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library . Choose File > Add to library ... and select the media files that you moved to your internal drive . Cheers . For the record , it is also possible to have more than one iTunes library and choose which one to load when starting iTunes . The above solution allows you to have one library with files at different locations .
If your goal is to completely wipe all data which is on your current boot disk , then follow the procedure below . Insert the Mac OS X CD . Restart the computer . Immediately after the startup sound , press and hold the " C " key to start up from CD . When the Installer screen appears , do not click Continue . Instead , choose Installer > Open Disk Utilities . Select the hard drive to erase . Click the Erase tab . Select the volume format from the Volume Format pop-up menu . Click Options . Select the checkbox for " Zero out data " . ( <URL> ) Click OK . Click Erase . The reason to perform this procedure as described above is it removes all traces of data by securely wiping the entire disk . This means that even with recovery tools , somebody could n't find what was on your disk . It 's the best way to wipe a disk if you 're selling/disposing of your computer or hard drive . UPDATE : Some additional information regarding theories on multi-pass erases can be found here : <URL> TLDR ; Its generally unnecessary with modern disk drives
Your question is hard to answer because you do n't mention the layer you are looking at . There at least four layers to consider : Hardware layer Usually the hardware consists of some administrative blocks , the " payload " blocks and some spare blocks . A hard drive contains some dozen and an SSD drive up to 15 % of the official size of spare/reserve blocks . Bad blocks are remapped to the spare/reserve blocks by the drive 's firmware . The operating system only knows the size of the payload blocks . Some low-level disk tools ( e.g. <URL> ) may read out the number of available spare blocks . Partiton layer Depending on the size of the hard disk - propagated by the firmware/hd-controller to your EFI/operating system - your partitioning tool ( e.g. Disk Utility ) may create partitions by determining start values and end values for each partition in the partition table . The free space on your hard disk is determined by the final block of the last partition and the beginning of the second GPT table ( provided that you partitioned your drive continuously and gaps do n't exist ) . You may read out the free space on your hard disk with . Volume layer Usually partitions have to be formatted with a file system to be usable . Almost all important filesystems contain a volume bitmap . The volume bitmap is a representation of all ( file system ) blocks or clusters of a volume . Free blocks and occupied blocks are marked differently . So one method to determine the free space on a volume is counting all blocks tagged free in the volume bitmap . LVM layer ( Logical Volume Manager ) or CoreStorage The LVM layer is an abstraction layer in between hard disks , partitions and volumes . Though determined by the basic partitions ( " Physical Volumes " ) a Logical Volume may span over several Physical Volumes ( Fusion Drive ) . I do n't know it for sure , but a Logical Volume Group probably contains a counterpart of a partition table holding all informations about all contained objects ( like Physical Volume ( s ) , Logical Volume Family ( ies ) , Logical Volume ( s ) ) . The available free space may be read out by entering block/cluster layer ( this is not relevant for OS X file systems ) Some file systems support <URL> . In short words : A lot of files do n't occupy a full block/cluster of the volume layer because they are smaller than the block/cluster size . In the free space of the cluster you may store a second/third/forth small file . I do n't know how to determine this free space ( probably some i-node/B-Tree magic ) . Depending on the layer you may now choose the appropriate method or tool to determine the " free space of your hard disk " .
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
One option would be to run the following script in Terminal Add lines for additional suffixes and target folders as needed ( and also keep in mind that is not the same as ) .
You can use Image Capture in the / Applications folder . This allows you to select a normal folder and import photos to that location , which can be accessed in Finder or Photoshop as usual . In addition , this application allows you to setup the preferred application to open when connecting your camera ( or smartphone , ... ) . There you can select Image Capture itself as the default application .
Yes - if you trust Apple to never lose the photos , you can delete all your local copies . Pay attention to which devices have full resolution images and which have " optimized " settings . Also , I 've been doing this for iTunes Match for some time . I have only lost a few dozen songs in two years of trusting the cloud . For that reason , I now set alarms every 6 months to download a local copy of all the songs from iCloud and back that up to an external HD . I 'll be doing the same with my iCloud photo library to be sure I never lose all the photos . I would add , that if the thought of losing a dozen photos or <URL> if your account should get messed up for engineering to work out the problem is n't your cup of tea , you might keep your originals on hard drives and in filesystems you know you have the tools to work with directly .
That should be possible . At least it was possible for previous OS X 's , but I do n't see why they changed it . So yes , you can run the installer from the second hard drive onto the first one . You can even install any other OS X onto another partition on the same hard drive .
There is a simple way to find out who is the owner of the computer as reported to Find my Mac . In terminal use If it is your name there then you are fine .
If you mean the Recovery HD , then it means that you do n't have a Recovery HD that 's able to be booted into . Try booting with ⌘ R . If that fails , use ⌘ ⌥ R for Internet Recovery .
I do n't know if it 'll work , but try going into the Energy Saver section of System Preferences and select " Put hard disk ( s ) to sleep whenever possible " . Then go into Disk Utility and unmount the hard drive . With no way to access the drive , I would assume Mac OS X would put the drive to sleep . This is a temporary solution though , and it wo n't persist across reboots ( Mac OS X automatically mounts all available drives at boot ) . If you 're really not using the drive and do n't have any data on there that you want , my suggestion would be to go into Disk Utility , repartition the drive , and for the format select " Free Space " . Once done , Mac OS X will be unable to mount the drive and should put it to sleep .
I 'd go for the ' not quite cave-man ' approach - though still a bit manual ... Launch Image Capture . Plug in iDevice Select any/all photos you wish to delete The Delete button is at the bottom of the window [ the ' no-entry ' sign ] After comments - the button is still there in Yosemite . Update Nov 2015 - the button is still there in El Capitan , though it is now black &amp; white , not red . Picture updated to Image Capture 6.7 after further queries on the button not being there . Update July 2016 , as people are still missing this bit ... If the Delete button does n't appear , eject &amp; re-plug the phone . <URL>
I definitely would not use electrical tape . Honestly , if for some reason you do not have the plastic tab that came on the HDD , then you can go without it when you replace it with the SSD . The opening is large enough you can get a finger between the SSD and the side rails , should you ever need to replace it . You can see <URL> for another opinion on the matter .
end question
start question
How can I invert spelling proposals on iOS ?
You can disable " Auto-Correction " under . The check spelling will still be on and taping on the word detected as wrong will prompt you the corrections .
None of what you want is possible . And it never will be possible until suddenly Apple and Microsoft get married and the marriage is watched on live television by more than 50 million people worldwide .
➙ ➙ : Turn off Make sure ( at the bottom of that same screen ) is on Your iDevice will no longer automatically correct misspelled words , but it will highlight them for you . As far as I know this is the only way to have spell-checking on without the Auto-Correct feature .
This is currently not possible . Apple also <URL> , which means that there will probably not be any applications that do just that . There are , however , several other third party dictionaries which are quite good . A UIReferenceLibraryViewController object provides a dictionary service to look up the definition of a word or term from within an app . It should not be used to display wordlists , create a standalone dictionary app , or republish the content in any form . According to this answer <URL> you can download the application DictionaryPlusPlus , which does just that , here <URL> , it is open source and you will have to compile and sign it yourself .
No , there is no such functionality on Apple Watch as standard as there are no text fields for entering text other than dictation .
The reason for this is that the Exchange Administrator has used the <URL> on the server to adjust how many weeks of mail you are allowed to sync . It is not possible to override this value on the phone itself without jailbraking .
The DNS settings over a VPN connection should be forced by the VPN server . This makes sure DNS queries get routed securely over the VPN , and allows you to see private services on the intranet that may not be exposed as public DNS records . It 's possible the VPN server may not be telling iOS what DNS server to use , something that could be solved by a configuration change in the VPN server ?
Sorry , but no . As of iOS 5 , there 's no method for the user to adjust font/interface sizes unless the app gives you a specific control for it . iOS Mail does have a setting for minimum font size , but it only applies to the body of the message , not the message lists .
Indeed @cksum appears to be correct . I just tested this on my dev device that 's never had Facebook installed . The app said that it knew my location and showed the blue location icon , but did n't show in the list of apps in Location Services . I pressed ' send ' and got the ' Facebook wants to use your location ' message , which I accepted and now the app is in the list and allowed me to switch it off . In conclusion , yes it appears that Facebook does n't request the actual location data until you press send , at which point the app is added to the list in Settings .
I get receipts by e-mail from Apple whenever I buy something in the iTunes store . If you do n't delete them they should still be there .
Go to Settings - > General - > Accessibility and set " White on Black " to Off .
<URL> can do this ( there 's a 99 cents ad-free version too ) . It 's supposed to let you just change http : / / to webshot : / / and it will open the same URL in in the app . That did n't work , but cut + paste did . There may be other apps which are better for certain needs , depending on what you want to actually do with the page . If you just want a JPG or PNG of it , Webshot Free works fine . If you are trying to save a page for reading later , <URL> ( $ 2 , universal ) will let you save a . webarchive or a . pdf file . [ Note : the print to pdf function is actually provided by 3rd party webapps , but it 's integrated into iCab ] . There are a variety of " Print to PDF " apps in the app store , <URL> , seems to be one of the better ones ( and is universal ) .
Cookie settings can be changed in the Preferences app in the Safari topic .
There wo n't be a problem . I 'm not 100 % sure that upgrading to iOS 8 will be in your best interest , though , because I 've seen lots of reports of people with 4Ss having performance problems on iOS 8 .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
It 's a boring answer , but it looks like Afloat has been updated to support Lion : <URL>
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
If they have different media types : Order by Media Type Select all files with the original media type Delete them If they have the same media type : Create a playlist with the selected files Create another playlist with both type of files Create a smart playlist with two conditions : playlist is " playlist from step 2 " playlist is not " playlist from step 1 " Delete content of smart playlist
In the assistive touch menu you 've to select : device - > more - > screenshot .
You could edit out the birthdate information from those contacts you do not want to see in the Birthdays calendar . Another way to accomplish this would be by manually adding the birthdays you do want to see to a new or existing calendar and then disable the Birthdays subscription .
end question
start question
A screen protector or not for the retina screen ?
The points raised are both correct . While having the protector will prevent scratches on the screen , it will also reduce the quality of the display quite significantly . When I bought my Mac , I was also met with this dilemma . After having tried the best screen protector that the Apple Store had , I decided not to go with one . The display does n't really scratch all that much , and I have not been able to induce a scratch even after using a cheap cloth . I would suggest you to use a screen cleaning liquid every time you use a cloth , as that is how I have been able to prevent the scratches .
So far it seems that there is no way to do this . I ended up changing my Graphics card to solve the problem .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
The dark linen source file is stored in the System Library folder so you will need " root " or administrator permissions to make changes to the directory or the file .
On my machine ( running 10.8.3 ) , it is in . You can search for this using Spotlight : press cmd-space or click the magnifying glass near top right in the menu bar . There are also some key shortcuts that save ( or copy to the clipboard ) images from the screen , clipped in various ways . cmd-shift-4 is one I use regularly , but there are several variants on this .
Yes , it is possible . This method works with at least iOS 9 . Make sure your iPhone is locked Press the lock key on the top of your iPhone to brighten it , without unlocking it completely Slide the bottom right camera icon half way up , and do n't let go . Keep your finger in this way Slide the camera modes to video , again keeping your finger on the camera slider mode still half way up Tap the big red record button in the bottom middle of the screen ; again , keeping your finger still on the camera slider mode still half way up . Do n't worry if it does n't show the recording happening . Double press the home button three times , Keep your finger still half way on the slider , until the iPhone automatically turns off its screen . This will take about 10 seconds regardless of what settings you 've kept in the auto lock feature That 's it . With the screen off , your iPhone is recording a video . To end the recording and save the video , simply unlock the iPhone Source : <URL>
Hopefully this should work regardless of OS version , but it 's been tested on 10.6.8 : Open Automator Choose to create a Folder Action Choose your photo folder as the folder to work on Chooses Utilities - > Run AppleScript and drag it into the panel on the right Paste the code below into the Run AppleScript panel Save the folder action and try it out ! end run Note : The script might have some unnecessary elements in it , but while trying to tweak it it often stopped working . Feel free to try on your own !
No . The organic material is applied during assembly . I 'm not aware of any place that can " replenish " the lipophobic substance . Apple has this to say : " Please note that the ability of this coating to repel oil will diminish over time with normal usage , and that rubbing the screen with an abrasive material will further diminish its effect and may scratch your screen . " Source : <URL> You can , however look into replacement covers that also contain lipophobic properties : <URL>
I believe the wake on click issue has more to do with the pointing devices shipping with the preponderance of new Mac systems : wireless keyboards , mice or trackpads for desktops and laptops . There are two potential reasons for a click : To maximize battery power , wireless keyboards , mice and trackpads power down when not in use -- just like computers . Today 's mice are all optical ( laser or otherwise ) and they turn off the light sources when asleep . The device does not register a movement until awakened . Wired mice might still wake a computer on movement . I also do n't believe the computer sees a difference when " waking " from any of the low power states available to it , be it a dimmed screen , a screen in lowest power state , or the computer " sleeping " . A device " click " initiates full power mode .
I just ran into this exact issue the other day . Try <URL> : it 's a free app that captures screenshots in both 1x and 2x simultaneously ( or , alternatively , just one or the other ) . And it 's a " true " 1x capture : it redraws at 1x rather than taking the 2x version and scaling it down . It also supports the same types of captures as the built-in Grab.app -- full screen , timed screen , selection , or window -- and you can save either to the clipboard or a file .
Go to System Preferences , then Accessibility . There will be a column on the left for Zoom , which you can use a keyboard shortcut to activate .
<URL> Notifies You When Caps Lock Is On ! The little app shows you huge icon when caps in on !
No . This multitouch gesture ( as well as a few others ) are iPad only . The gestures existed for iPhones and iPods in the iOS 4.3 Beta , but were removed before the public release . iOS 5.0 re-introduced the gestures for iPad .
<URL> ( US$ 15 ) turns a ( Lion or above ) Mac into an AirPlay receiver that can handle mirroring . Once you 've got the mirrored display on a Mac , all you need is to capture that video , which is easy . For example : Start Reflection on the Mac . Turn mirroring on ( requires iPad 2 or newer or iPhone 4S or newer ) , selecting the Mac as the target . Use a video screen capture program ( Quicktime Player can do this , but there are lots of more advanced ones if you need more ) to record the Reflection window . No jailbreaking is required . <URL> ( also US$ 15 ) is another application that offers essentially the same functionality as Reflection ( and was released slightly afterwards ) , but is also available for Windows , if you do n't have a Mac to do the recording on .
It is none of them , however it is compatible with VNC .
System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups . Click on your account name in the sidebar and you 'll have the option to change your picture if you mouseover it in the right pane and click edit picture .
KeyLemon looks like what you want : <URL> It has a free version , but I do n't believe it will replace the login screen .
60Hz . Apple DTS has not changed any of their answers about 60Hz refresh rates with respect to any device model , and no one has reported any higher rate .
I 've noticed the same thing , but only when there was a notification on the lock screen . I 'm chalking it up to that , and not worrying about it . But still interested to learn more if anyone knows anything .
What 's an FKEY ? FKEY 's ( Function Keys ) are resources containing executable code that are called upon by hitting the keys Command-Shift - # ( any number 0-9 ) at the same time . In the standard System file there are two FKEY 's ; with an ID # 3 and # 4 that are used to dump the current screen or window onto disk or printer .1 So far as I can remember/find , screenshot commands were first added to the OS itself in <URL> .2 1 Text and image from <URL> by John Holder ( MacTech magazine , 1988 ) 2 Further reading/references : <URL> and a forum posting from 2003 , <URL> ( the latter of which features some guy named <URL> ) .
end question
start question
What are alternatives for Menumeters on El Capitan ?
I just ported MenuMeters for El Capitan , please go to <URL> .
<URL> should do the job . CCC ( Carbon Copy Cloner ) creates a bootable backup , and preserves all your files , and in the right hierarchy . You can also have incremental backups ( it only backs up items that have changed since the last backup ) . You can schedule CCC to backup regularly . CCC also has the ability to backup over a network . I also like the Growl notifications . <URL> is another handy little application . We used to use it for backing up before Time Machine came out . It has the ability to do incremental backups , so you wo n't be backing up the whole hard drive ; just the data that 's changed . Unlike CCC , it costs $ 27.95 . Another option would be <URL> or <URL> . Both will have the option to make a perfect backup , invisible files included . Rsync can also backup incrementally , which means it will only backup what has changed . With rsync and cp , you can also schedule it to backup with <URL> or <URL> .
I do n't know if the built-in keyboard viewer is sophisticated enough , but it should highlight pressed keys . If you do not see those options , make sure it is checked off under your System Preferences > Keyboard There are also apps like <URL> that display bezel elements for pressed keys .
Today , I 'd go with either a 15 " or 17 " MacBook Pro . They would allow you to work with the iPad simulator at its native resolution . It 's a bit too big to run full-size on the 13 " models , so I always end up running it at half size , which is less than ideal . Even if you 're not planning to develop for the iPad right now , I 'd still plan the hardware purchase around that possibility . The likelihood that you 'll do iOS development and never build for the iPad is pretty low . Beyond the simulator issues , I like to have the largest screen possible when I 'm programming . I have a 13 " MacBook Pro , but I connect it to a 24 " monitor when I 'm at my desk . If you 're like me , the 17 " would be ideal , if you do n't want to have a second screen . However , Apple is holding a Mac-focused special event tomorrow , and it 's never a good idea to buy a Mac this close to one of those events . The entire laptop line is due for updates , and there has been ( unconfirmed ) speculation that any new models may run at higher screen resolutions , especially on the smaller end of the range .
They are System fonts &amp; not available ( or indeed licensed ) for documents that you make or App use in general . As mentioned in comments , even the <URL> of the fonts is only licensed for interface mockups &amp; no other purpose . The previous system font , Helvetica Neue , on the other hand , was released as both a System &amp; User font . There are various opinions online about how to make the San Fransisco fonts available to the user , but seem to depend on unpacking the individual ttfs , changing the ' system font ' attribute , then repacking them again - something I 'll leave to someone else , regardless of the licensing or legal position of doing that .
You should read the big Siracusa 's Lion review in <URL> . The gist of it is , no , every time another program tries to access the file ( e.g. you 're trying to send it in Mail , upload it in safari ) what the other program will get is the current version you 're looking at . Nothing else . See more at this particular <URL>
Here 's one way to fix ( but I hope there 's a better way ) : In admin account , sudo ( cd / Users ; tar cf ) In Users pref pane , delete the account and the directory . ( Trying to keep the directory got an error and did not delete account ) Re-create the account . Verify in Terminal that the numeric ID is the same . Restore the directory contents from the tarball . If necessary , use chown/chgrp/chmod to fix metadata . I also hope ( too late for me ) that someone can explain how it could have been prevented .
Finder uses Spotlight to index and search for files and folders . There are several resources that can help you with understanding the way Spotlight indexes files on your Mac . Since you are looking for an exact phrase type of text search , use quotation marks . ( See below ) In Finder select the Help menu and type in Spotlight for further information . <URL> From Apple 's Support site regarding unexpected search results : OS X El Capitan : If searching your Mac does n't return expected results There are several things you can try if a search does n't return the items you expect . Check the text you entered in the search field Make sure the word or phrase is spelled correctly . To search for an exact phrase , enclose it in quotation marks . For example , enter " trip to Paris " to find items that contain that exact phrase . If you do n't use quotation marks , the search results include items that contain those words in any order . Check the location you 're searching If you began your search in Spotlight , the search results can include email , Calendar events , Spotlight Suggestions , information from other apps , and more . If you began your search in a Finder window , the search results include only files and folders on your internal disk . Check your Spotlight preferences You may have removed items from Spotlight search results . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Search Results . You may have excluded certain folders or disks from searches . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Privacy . You may have turned off Location Services for Spotlight Suggestions . For more information , see About Spotlight Suggestions . For more information about Spotlight preferences , see Spotlight preferences .
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
There does n't appear to be any file-type limitation . WebDAV file sharing is enabled in the new Server.app under the File Sharing Service . Click the share you want , and then check " Share with iOS Devices ( WebDAV ) . " There is n't anything specific about file types , and Server.app seems to treat WebDAV as just another file-sharing protocol .
There are no native IDE available for iOS . Apple restricts unsigned code from being run on all iOS devices , thus making an IDE on iOS impossible . ( this is possible on android to run code directly on the device that is written on device ) Your best bet is to get a regular text editor such as <URL> or anything that can checkout documents and edit them from git , svn or dropbox . You will never be able to run this code on iOS , so you will need to push it to your repository and compile and run it via a remote desktop client or via a SSH terminal . To really fully automate this process you would have to edit your code , push it to the repository , compile it on another machine and then have that compiled binary shipped to your device using a distribution mechanism like <URL> via a series of scripts ( test flight has an API for this ) . It 's not impossible , just hard . Another option is to use a remote desktop client and remote to an IDE on a PC to edit and run your code there .
Per <URL> , AirPlay makes use of a number of ports : ╔ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╗ ║ Port ║ TCP/UDP ║ Name ║ ╠ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╣ ║ 80 ║ TCP ║ Hypertext Transfer Protocol ( HTTP ) ║ ║ 443 ║ TCP ║ Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL , or " HTTPS " ) ║ ║ 554 ║ TCP/UDP ║ Real Time Streaming Protocol ( RTSP ) ║ ║ 3689 ║ TCP ║ Digital Audio Access Protocol ( DAAP ) ║ ║ 5353 ║ TCP ║ Multicast DNS ( MDNS ) ║ ╚ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╝
What I ended up doing was purchasing the used mac from a 3rd party vendor , that offered a basic 1 year warranty for no additional charge .
Disable the LaunchAgent ( not LaunchDaemons ) and reboot your machine ( without sudo ) : In case you want to enable it again at one point :
Whenever I hear a song and I want to know the name of it , I use <URL> on my iphone . So far it has identified all of the songs I 've searched . Even if for some reason I do n't have network access , it will store the search and you can send it to their servers once connectivity is restored . By the way , SoundHound and Midomi are the same thing . Midomi changed its name to SoundHound .
Yes - you will want to start with the <URL> source code or compiled installer that Apple publishes and then pick whatever device you like that integrates to this infrastructure . Here is Apple 's starting point and a few more links that may help you in your search for a biometric authentication solution : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I recommend <URL> which can recover a very wide variety of <URL> . Even if you do n't see the file type listed , ProSoft maybe able to help you recover the data . I once had a client delete a their QuickBook 's for Mac data file . It was a new version of QuickBooks with a radically different file format from prior versions . The current Data Rescue did n't recover the data ; however , ProSoft was able to provide a new file definition and all of the data was recovered . There are separate Mac and PC versions of Data Rescue . I have used both with good results , but I have far more experience with the Mac version . I find $ 99 for Data Rescue to be a very fair price , however , if you are only needing to recover image files from digital cameras , checkout ProSoft 's <URL> for $ 20 . I believe Image Rescue comes with both Mac and PC licenses .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
The default shortcut for showing the Desktop is : ⌘ Cmd-F3 Technically , the official name is ⌘ Cmd-Mission Control but unless you know what " Mission Control " is , you would end up searching for that as well . <URL> Apple has a really good <URL> - I keep this bookmarked for quick reference .
Run the following command in Terminal ( it will create a symbolic link for all users ) : Or just for currently logged on user : Finder will appear in the applications list opened with Launchpad .
end question
start question
How to unmask the SIP credentials in the Zoiper VoIP application ?
Go to the folder that Zoiper is installed Find the file zoiper.cfg which is essentially an xml file Your SIP username and password are located between and .
In addition to the other answers posted here , I suggest looking at a few different online bookmarking sites : <URL> <URL> ( and yes ) Delicious.com Most of these services have add-ons or extensions to access the bookmarks . :) ( I really like diigo.com )
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
Either uploading a new binary update or rejecting the App 's actual binary and then pressing on Ready to Upload Binary should do the trick . As written under Apple 's <URL> : Cryptography and U.S. Export Compliance U.S. export laws require that products containing encryption be properly authorized for export . When you 're ready to upload your first binary for your app or upload a binary update , iTunes Connect presents a series of questions regarding software encryption . The questions are designed to determine the level of encryption in the app according to U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security ( BIS ) classifications .
No WASS or any differential signaling is built into the iPhone . Apple does n't publish performance data for GPS or the chipsets/algorithms in use . It 's just <URL> ( which tries to be precise to 1m on the earth 's surface but never is for a variety of reasons ) In practice , iOS is usually accurate within 5 meters when the dot shows no circle on the map app ( called good or low Dilution of Precision ) . If Selective Availability ( SA ) is ever turned on again , all bets are off as the government can intentionally introduce errors of 70 or more meters if desired . The assisted part of the iPhone GPS makes it faster to get a fix based on assumptions that can be made by <URL> based on cached cell tower and wifi hotspot locations . This does n't make GPS any more precise or accurate since it 's the best signal for iOS location data when it 's present .
The reason for the " stuttering " could be a combination of different factors . First is of course your computer 's power and video card . The more power you have , the more the number of FPSs your computer can " record " . Despite that , QuickTime is not known for its " fast " recording , so I suggest you give a try to different alternatives . <URL> is a little bit " outdated " because some ( if not most ) of the applications mentioned have been updated and have fixed or changed some of the problems they had , however , it should be a starting point for your final QUickTime Replacement . <URL> has a very similar list , but rather than a review is a list with a short description of the products . For reference , the most important Screen Capture tools for OS X ( or to put it in another way , the " most used ones " ) are ( in no particular order ) : iShowU , Snapz Pro X , ScreenFlow and one that is missing from those lists ( because it 's a new player in the Mac world ) : Camtasia for Mac ( which I 've been betatesting and it 's quite good and in par with the ones I 've mentioned ) . Some features missing from Camtasia 1.0 have been addressed in an update and I know they are working on a newer version after getting tons of feedback in the Beta forums ( which I ca n't disclose because I participated ) . I 've personally tried those four I 've mentioned ( i have a Snapz Pro license ) and I think they more or less are the same , but some were ( when I tried them ) faster than others but lacked certain features . All in all , the " best " does n't exist , they all have strengths and weaknesses so your best bet is to give them a try and see if one does the job . Last but not least , remember that quality also plays an important factor in CPU overhead when recording , try to keep your CPU load low and reduce the recording quality as much as you can afford .
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
There is a new Apple Support Forum for iBooks Author <URL>
An application on a Mac is just a folder full of files with a . app extension . However , OS X hides this fact from you and displays the folder as a file with an icon . Now when you download something it 's very uncomfortable to download folders ( without a download manager ) . Therefore this " App Folder " has to be put inside a single file somehow . This can be done in three ways : Put in a zip file ( or comparable file format ) Put it in a dmg file ( which is kind of a flat file filesystem ) Make an installer ( which , however , also has to be either in a zip or dmg because those are folders to on a mac ) Since most apps are self-contained and do not need anything besides the App Folder , an installer is not only overkill but also slower than just distributing the app folder . You can obviously launch apps from wherever you want , it 's only a custom or a recommendation to put them into as it easier for you to find it again and it works with multiple users .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
Apple 's solution , like it or not , is to use Exposé or <URL> ( Lion ) to switch between windows . ⌘ + tab is considered an application switcher . There are third party solutions to change this behavior , but I do n't have experience with them . There is some discussion about these solutions on <URL> .
This icon is shown on files that have been downloaded from the Internet and not used yet . The first time you open the application , you will see a dialog warning you that you downloaded the application from the Internet and asking if you are sure you want to run it . Say yes and run the app , and the icon should soon be changed back to what it should be ( you may need to log out and back in ) . To answer your question in general : To change an app 's icon , you first need to copy the new icon you want to use to the clipboard . Open the image file you want in Preview ( found in your Applications folder ) , select all ( & #x 2318 ; + A ) , and copy ( & #x 2318 ; + C ) . Find the app whose icon you want to change . Select it in Finder and choose ( & #x 2318 ; + I ) . Select the small preview icon in the top left of the Get Info window , and paste ( & #x 2318 ; + V ) .
I do n't think there will be any with a compiler , due to iOS and App Store restrictions . The best thing on an iPhone or iPod I think would be a text editor to write code ( I use <URL> and its Dropbox syncing ) and an SSH app ( I use <URL> ) to compile and run the code . Though it might be tough to keep a connection during a commute for SSH . If you need a computer to SSH to , you could use an Amazon EC2 app to create and use a box on the go . I have n't done that yet , so I do n't have a good recommendation , but it 's on my list of things to try . Also , if you have an iPad , <URL> is a fantastic code editor , but it 's not available on iPhone or iPod .
There 's no default application to handle . rar file on Mac OS X . You might want to try <URL> . It can open many format besides rar files . Then once you installed it , open its preferences and select all the file format you want him to manage .
Instead of trying to drag the account ( s ) into the desired order in Preferences , drag the account 's mailbox to the desired order from the mailbox list in the sidebar of Mail.app main window . Open the inbox and drag the desired sub-inbox to the top . The position in the other places like the trash and drafts boxes will follow . Then quit Mail.app and open it again to make the changes take effect . Whichever account 's mailbox is at the top of the list will be the default mailbox . If an account mailbox is at the top , but the account is not the default , drag it down and then back up to the top . This will reset the order and establish the top one as the default .
Go to the folder that Zoiper is installed Find the file zoiper.cfg which is essentially an xml file Your SIP username and password are located between and .
If you 're JailBroken , install and open up iFile from Cydia . Navigate to , tap the gear in the bottom-left corner and make sure " Application Names " is set to , and then find the app you mentioned inside that folder . To completely disable audio from that app , you 're going to need to delete every audio file inside that folder ( and subfolders ) . It might take you a while , but that 's the only way to do what you want without writing your own JailBreak tweak . If the app you 're muting is written poorly , it may crash when it can not find those files you deleted . If this is the case , just reinstall the app , and you wo n't be able to mute it until somebody nice comes along and writes a tweak .
I 've used <URL> ( link goes to their site , iTunes link below ) for some time , thought admittedly very sparsely and only for the simplest of use cases , so , much of this is taken from their site . Use the OS ' Address Book : Yep , it maintains it 's own " quick list " ( favorites ) however . and global Recent Calls list : Nope , maintains it 's own ( pretty sure this one is impossible anyways , " private APIs " and all that ) . Load as fast as Phone.app : I call this subjective , because Phone.app is always running , which gives it an inherit speedup compared to anything else . Acro 's SoftPhone does support the VoIP backgrounding , and even push , so you can " Swipe To Answer " , but it still takes at least a couple seconds to do . ( At least that 's how it feels , comparatively speaking . ) International Number Support : I think this is not so much a client feature as much as it is a feature of your server you SIP register to . This one is unknown to me as I 've never attempted to call an international ( outside the US ) number . Allow Recording : Yes . Upon tapping the record button , a voice announcement is played , and then conversation is recorded and able to be replayed from the app . Skype : Nope Google Voice : Yep , but to what extent , I am unsure . Per their website : GoogleVoice users : Though we have integrated GoogleVoice , Acrobits Softphone 's main use is as a SIP client . You can setup Acrobits Softphone to initiate GoogleVoice calls through other types of numbers , but to get the full functionality of Acrobits Softphone , you need to have GoogleVoice linked to a SIP Account . Rest : If it 's SIP , it should work . Bonus : It supports ZRTP . Zimmerman 's encrypted RTP protocol for SIP calls . Free for incoming calls , in-app purchase for initiating calls using it . iTunes Link : <URL> .
There is no known setting to disable this dialog . The " welcome screen " serves as a dispatcher to the different parts of LibreOffice ( such as the word processor or spreadsheet ) . Because these applications can not be accessed directly ( they lack stand-alone binaries ) , the welcome screen is in fact quite functional when not launching LibreOffice from an existing document . Disabling it would not make much sense from a useability point a view , therefore I am not really surprised there is no setting to change this behavior .
Right-click or Control + click on the Documents folder in the Finder , and click ' Make Alias ' . You probably want to move the alias somewhere else and rename it " Documents " . Then , drag the Documents alias into the Dock . Voíla , a link to the Documents folder instead of a Documents folder stack .
end question
start question
Can I upgrade my MacBook Pro using " generic " RAM ?
Yes , you can buy third party RAM . I usually buy <URL> RAM . As long as it is made to be compatible with your machine ( Same Bus Speed and such ) . Usually , you can search these companies sites for RAM for your specific make and model MBP and they will have suggestions for it . You can sometimes even put in more RAM than Apple says it can . The companies test newer machines to see how much RAM they can handle . For instance , the new current gen MBP only supports 8GB according to Apple , but 16GB of RAM will still work and wo n't cause any problems . It will work perfectly . I am running 8GB of RAM in my machine , it cost me 46 dollars with shipping over 200 dollars from Apple . Just be sure to keep you old RAM just in case your new RAM goes bad , which it most likely wo n't , but that way you have back up RAM to use in just such an occasion . I hope that helps .
Update ( 5/24/2016 ) Salvation is here ! OWC has released <URL> for the MacBook Pro with Retina Display 13 " &amp; 15 " Late 2013 , 2014 , and 2015
I did the same to one of my old macs and opted for Crucial Memory and a Western Digital hard drive . Their still going strong and I 've had absolutely no problems ( and the WD drive is really fast )
Your MacBook Pro could have various display ports depending on its vintage : Dual-Link DVI for the oldest models Mini DisplayPort on the 15 " from late 2008 , on the 17 " since early 2009 Both can drive a monitor in analog mode ( via a VGA port on your monitor ) or in digital mode ( via a DVI port ) . Most monitors , except really ancient ones , have both connectors . The quality of the image beeing better with a DVI connection I recommend you go this route . All monitors are shipped with a DVI/DVI cable , if not go get one at your nearest cheap PC place . For old MacBook Pro that 's all you need . For more recent models you need to add a adapter . Apple has <URL> , but I do n't like it : It 's really short and put pressure on the port when the computer is used on a support . Not to mention ugly . I bought on ebay a 6 foot Mini DisplayPort/DVI cable for cheap , it 's all digital so you do n't need huge shielding and " super copper wire balanced to give you the best image " . Around 10 quids . Note : Smaller models like the MacBook and the Macbook Air came with different ports : A mini DVI or a micro DVI . For the people reading this with a non " pro " model , make sure you check for those as well ... PS : You can find pictures of the various ports by searching for their names on Wikipedia . I wanted to put the links directly , but apparently I do not have enough reputation to post more than one link :(
After select pinyin in your input language you can open any editor like textEdit : when you start typing you see the box ( like below box ) and can select your desire word .
You ca n't use slower RAM . In fact I 've had trouble with some manufacture 's RAM even though it met the spec . You need to go to a site that guarantees any new RAM will work in a Macintosh . I did n't think that the original Mac Pro could run Mountain Lion . I 've got a Mac Pro 2.1 , from 2007 , that refuses to allow Mountain Lion to be installed . Did you hack this ?
No , no , no and no . Have fun with the 7200 rpm drive of your choice . Mac drive mounting hardware is excellent and the drive screws are standard sized . Unless you get a drive with exotic firmware or physically too large to fit , there will be no issues relating to design . Only a faulty drive ( or failing Mac ) will cause issues . Simple physics means a 7200 RPM drive has to generate more heat than a 5400 RPM drive , but in practice , this is well within a normal Mac 's ability to cool - even when you never let the drive spin down - something else like CPU load will be needed to get the internal fan to spin up .
Yes , however there are two versions of the MacBook battery , the Energy Star and the non-Energy Star that are incompatible with each other . So as long the pins look the same in his laptop you should be fine Check out this post on super user for more details on the different pins of the Energy Star and non-Enery Star connections for the battery . <URL>
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
Hold the Option key and click on the Volume/Sound icon on your Menu Bar . When you 're connected via HDMI , you should have an option show in the local menu to select that connection to feed the audio through rather than the standard audio output .
You can do something to try to make your macbook run a bit cooler : If you are using an external monitor you can disable the internal screen , while leaving the lid open . This reduces the stress on the GPU and improves cooling : use a ( very small ) magnet to make the macbook think that the lid is closed . See my answer here : <URL> You can disable the CPU turbo boost . One easy way is using this utility : <URL> Also , make sure you have trim configured on your SSD .
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
Nope . The glowing Apple on your MacBook Pro is actually illuminated by the backlight of your screen as well . So you ca n't turn it off as long as you have your screen lighted on . Your best bet is probably to put a sticker on it .
You can disable some of the F-key shortcuts in System Preferences :
I think you are going about this the wrong way . You are looking defensively when you should be on offense . Consider getting something like a privacy shield to place around the urinator : Another alternative might be to simply bring physical pain into the mix . Wounding the urinator that sprays wildly towards you and the Macbook might make the urinator realize that control is important . Again , think offense ... not defense .
According to Apple Support : Double Data Rate Small Outline Dual Inline Memory Module ( DDR3 ) format 67.6 mm x 30mm ( 1.18 inch ) 2 GB or 4 GB 204-pin PC3-10600 DDR3 1333 MHz type RAM Source : <URL>
I hope the <URL> of <URL> does n't disapprove of me using his app to answer this , but here are the reasons why helpd will run . ( the <URL> of help ) It 's hard to tell if this is one of the processes that needs to run a bit the first time it starts and then it will happily update itself more rapidly when needed ( like / Applications being changed ) as well as early every Sunday AM . The virtual memory system should keep the RAM fine , so unless you see it constantly - it 's just taking the RAM it needs to serve your help menu with fresh and up to date documents . You can also disable that launchd job if it 's causing you grief until you can isolate why .
<URL> say to keep it for troubleshooting and/or if you need to send it in for warranty service : <URL> " 2x1GB is worth so little so you 're better off keeping it for troubleshooting purposes . " <URL> " I would hold on to the memory ; if you ever need to take it in for service , it 's better to have the original memory in it . " " Keep them for warranty " <URL> " Apple guidelines are that if you do have 3rd party hardware installed , they wo n't service it . "
RAM still is a lot faster than any SSD which you use in your Mac . RAM has a shorter access times and much higher transfer rates : [ <URL> ] The <URL> interface by which the hard disk is connected limits the throughput to a theoretical maximum of 6Gbit/s ( 600MB/s ) for SATA3 . You can determine how much the page outs are written to the disk by taking a look at the Activity Monitor . I try to keep the ratio at a maximum of 10/1 ( page in/page out ) . The more page outs you have , the more like a RAM upgrade will benefit you .
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
end question
start question
Is there a way to get Smart Playlists to work with iOS and iTunes Match ?
There are a couple of potential solutions to this problem . I say potential because everyone 's listening habits and needs are different , so your mileage may vary . Here goes : The Smart Playlist problem is not new , and certainly not unique in your case . There seems to be an overall problem with Smart Playlist syncing through iTunes Match ( 1 ) across different devices , ( 2 ) with any expediency ( usually takes > = 48 hours ) , and ( 3 ) with respect to honoring certain rules ( e.g. , number of songs allowed ) . Another common theme seems to be that " nested " playlists cause even more of a problem than standard Smart Playlists . Nested lists are those that are created when you use your option key to turn the into an ellipsis ( ) , which creates a sub-rule for your master rule . Solution 1 : Dumb it down Create a standard playlist ( Dumb ) and give it the same name as your Smart playlist . Copy the content from Smart to Dumb . Sync your device , computer , whatever . Rinse , wash , repeat for each Smart Playlist you want to have properly represented on your other devices . This works . Solution 2 : Really Dumb it Down Do your best to avoid the aforementioned nested playlists . This may require you to build several smaller smart playlists with limited criteria . Not the easiest workaround , but we 're going for functionality here , right ? Solution 3 : Really make your " Recently Added " folder songs that are " Recently Added " For your " Recently Added " folder , tack on just one more rule to force songs added after a date , rather than only within the last two weeks ( see pic below ) So , I hope this gets you at least a little closer to your goal . I tried to add as much info as I could here since , one more time : everyone 's listening and categorizing habits are different :-) You may find other variations on these , but do realize that , at least for now , this is a server-side problem and workarounds like these represent the best available solutions .
Right-click on the Podcasts entry in the side bar Select " Export ... " Select OPML format This gives you a short file listing all the subscribed podcasts including the URL .
If explicit you should have a little E next to the title
You will have to edit the files with a text ( or xml ) editor . First make a backup of the app ( especially for Finder ) , then go into the bundle contents and find the or . This will probably be in the folder . Most likely , this file will be called . However , Finder 's is and some apps , like Firefox , wo n't have one at all . The nib file can be converted to XML with . Then you can open it in the text editor of your choice . Just command ⌘ + F ( or control ⌃ + S ) for the menu name you want to change . It should look something like this : Edit the string at the top . This is actually the Interface Builder connection between the menu item of that name and the Objective-C selector/method that it calls . Save the nib and relaunch the application ( with Force Quit or for Finder ) and you should have the different name showing up .
If you DO want to jailbreak , <URL> works great for this . You can have blacklists , whitelists , lists just for SMS , lists that occur during a certain schedule ( say work hours ) , multiple lists active simultaneously , and different actions for different lists , etc. . So you could use it to ignore some calls , some some calls straight to voicemail , and ignore other calls while automatically sending that number an SMS that says " At work , will call you back tonight " etc
Assuming your running Snow Leopard & #x 2318 ; + space will open Spotlight which can be used to run terminal . Spotlight can be bound to another key combination but the default is similar to Windows + R.
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
( take a copy of your songs ) delete the songs you do n't want on match , re-add them but change the type ( right klick , info ) to audio-book hence iCloud do n't upload audiobooks To be clear - the AudioBooks that are incorrectly marked ' music ' can not have their identifier edited ( when already uploaded to cloud ) , as the Get Info > Options > Media Kind is greyed out . You must save the audio away from iTunes , and when you reload it , you can change the option before it 's uploaded .
Use Boot Camp 6.0 , it will let you use Bluetooth on the MacBook 2015 .
Yes , but you do n't do it within iTunes . If you want the song files you drop into a particular folder to automatically be added to an iTunes playlist , you use Automator to create a folder action like this one : You start Automator , and create a Folder Action . You select the folder you want as the source of files . Then , the action is " Import Files into iTunes " at which point you select the playlist to which you want the songs added . Then you save the Folder Action .
It is not possible to manage the feeds inside <URL> . Nevertheless it will synchronize all changes made to feeds within Google Reader . So if you want to rename a feed , open the webpage of Google Reader and go to the preferences . In the prefs , choose the Abonnements tab ( at least this is the German headline ) and rename the feed . If you now head back to the Reeder.app and synchronize your feeds the changes will be reflected and the feed will be renamed . Please remember that this workaround will only work until July 1 , because Google is shutting down the Reader service .
Yes . The iTunes Match Library icon shows up from time to time ( I have n't figured out what the exact requirements are ) and you can re-scan your library . Once you changed your id3 data , select the songs , right-click and select " Add to iCloud " . This initiates a re-scan in iTunes Match as well . If you add music , it will by added to iCloud instantly .
⇧ + ⌃ + ⏏ puts the display ( only the display , not the whole computer ) to sleep and will then prompt you for a password if you have enabled under . If your Mac does not have an & #x 23CF ; ( eject ) key , you can use ⇧ + ⌃ + ⌽ ( power ) .
The iPod nano and classic iPods get loaded a custom firmware that could be downloaded from the internet and possibly loaded with a tool other than iTunes , but on a PC you could easily use whatever disk tool you want to erase the drive by reformatting it . Since this would render the device unbootable , you will not want to sell it to a user that 's not familiar with why it 's not working , so the elegant solution would be to rent another computer with iTunes and restore it . Apple 's retail stores usually will even loan you a cable to restore your device from any of the display Macs . iTunes on a new computer would want to erase all the content anyhow - so going another step to wipe and restore the device will leave a clean slate and you might even be able to sync some demo content to the device depending on how iTunes is set up in the store you visit .
Your answer is Hold down Shift and click the red * button *
Sure . On your iPhone , go into Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account ... and add Google as Exchange ( !!! ) account . Using Google as Exchange account allows you to sync calendars and contacts . See <URL> Now , gathering together all info spread around , into a checklist format : Google Sync is only supported on Apple iOS versions 3.0 and above , because that 's when Microsoft Exchange was implemented and that 's the protocol we will use . If your business , school , or organization uses Google Apps , your administrator will first need to enable Google Sync . If you 're not , then there is no such setup - it 's enabled by default . Double check you 're using the correct gmail account - many users have more than one gmail , or google apps , with similar mails due to forwarding and often mistake this . Be sure to <URL> . Every configuration has to be done properly and it must lastly look something like this , from :
Either you have on your library same album and different artists or , most likely , you 're creating some weird rules that generate that behavior , like <URL> . If that 's the case , seems like you 'd have to change to in any rule that uses the plus sign . Granted , it is inconsistent behavior in this second case and it might get fixed in the future . And , who knows , there might be few other little bugs like this as well .
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
My article at <URL> explains how to do this using the App store version of Evernote : Move ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support/Evernote to / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox . Create an alias of / Users/my _ user_on_the_system / Dropbox/Evernote . Move the alias of / Evernote back to ~ / Library/Containers/com . evernote.Evernote / Data/Library/Application Support /
Indeed there is . You can try <URL> - it encodes video on the fly and sends it straight to your AppleTV . I 've used it for a while now , and although it can be a little unstable from time to time , it really is very useful . Of course , you could always install XBMC following <URL> and control it , play all sorts of video , and make tons on neat customizations however you see fit . Good luck .
end question
start question
Can an iPhone be used after a Find My iPhone erasure ?
It seems like <URL> does make erasing harder starting with iOS 7 . Find My iPhone includes a new feature called Activation Lock , which is designed to prevent anyone else from using your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch if you ever lose it . It starts working the moment you turn on Find My iPhone in iOS 7 Even if you erase your device remotely , Activation Lock can continue to deter anyone from reactivating your device without your permission . However there several methods that enable you to bypass this activation lock . Simply google for bypass activation lock iphone .
The original warranty usually the standard 1 year + any AppleCare stays with the iPhone . And any remaining warranty transfers to the new owners . <URL> Is the AppleCare Protection Plan transferable ? Yes . If you choose to sell or give away your Apple product , you can also transfer the ownership of the AppleCare Protection Plan . Please see the AppleCare Protection Plan <URL> for complete details .
They can be used in any device that accepts a 3.5 mm stereo headphone jack ( and that 's pretty much anything that has a headphone socket these days , alternatives include a smaller 2.5 mm jack , or a much larger 1/4 " one ) , although the inline controls may have limited use or operate differently depending on what you plug them into . As to advanced features , this depends on a couple of things . The socket size is the most important consideration , but the next thing is the amount of " poles " that the headphones have , and that the socket supports . A " 2 pole " device ( 3 separate contact areas separated by 2 solid line/band right around the jack ) will provide for stereo sound ( left/right/ground ) , adding a 3rd band/4th pole will add MIC functions and the ability to send controls from an inline controller for volume , track selection etc. . For the latter , the actual commands sent down the connection may vary per device , giving you volume on one device , or tracks on another , but there are a couple of semi-unofficial standards in that it usually works OK across devices so long as the contact is there inside the socket to support the connection . <URL> may help if you need to read more .
If you lose your phone or it is stolen , it is likely to be miles away from your home and just knowing this allows you to use the ' Find My iPhone ' feature on www.me.com to remotely wipe ( and/or kill ) the phone , or to make it bleep and put up a message if you realise you 've left it at your friend/family-members ' house . An SMS-based app would require you to have another phone to find/lock/wipe your iPhone , plus there 's always the chance that you forgot to run the app following a reboot , or that it crashed . " Find My iPhone " is built into iOS , so you do n't have to remember to run it . Although 3G does use up more battery than 2.5 G or 2G , this is not the primary cause of battery drain in a smart phone - try quitting some your apps to find out which one is draining the battery . Also , read through the comments on the link you posted - there are some real unhappy users there who post about the problems . I wonder how many Android phones are out there that somebody could SMS-spam with the magic command to remotely-kill their phone ...
This was n't intended to be a Jeopardy question , but I think I 've figured it out . On the iPhone , go to Settings " iCloud and set Contacts to Off . On the computer , turn off iCloud contact syncing Connect the iPhone to the computer Click on the iPhone button that appears top right in iTunes Go to Info Check Sync Contacts Select Selected Groups Select the group you want synced .
Apparently Apple quietly added the ability to mark calendar events as private in iOS 8 . At the bottom of the event details there is the option to toggle an event as . Setting this toggle works with Exchange . See screenshots below : <URL> <URL>
Yes A single device can be added to as many developer accounts as necessary .
There is no reason this should not work . Assuming your model supports iOS 7 of course . I 'd like to be able to tell you more . But there is just not much to say . The lock to a certain provider is not affected by an upgrade to iOS 7 . Provider settings will just be the same as well .
Yes , the device can communicate with Find my iPhone over Wi-Fi . Find my iPhone uses the currently available network connection , regardless of whether that be Wi-Fi or cellular . The GPS is still used to obtain location information along with Wi-Fi data and the location is sent over Wi-Fi to Find my iPhone .
Yes , you can . It 's unlocked , and you can move to any carrier you wish to . Of course , if you 're planning to move off of Verizon , you would have to consider the terms dictated by your contract with Verizon . Read more on <URL> . Here 's a relevant quote : However , both of the iPad 4th Gen models with cellular data capability are sold " unlocked " and are capable of running on any compatible network . Also , a footnote <URL> states ( with emphasis here ) : 2 . To identify your iPad model number , see <URL> . iPad models are unlocked and may support LTE networks outside the country of purchase when using a valid SIM from a supported carrier . Contact your carrier for more details .
The device ca n't be removed from Find my iPhone by resetting it . Furthermore , you can and probably should set the device to lost mode if you want to put a PIN on it and lock the device with a helpful message to contact you for the eventual return of the device . If you really just want the device wiped , then you can erase it , knowing that still it will <URL> : With iOS 7 , Find My iPhone can continue to display your custom message , even after your device has been erased . When you press the Reset button in Settings , it asks for your Apple ID , and will only reset the device when it 's been entered . Attempting to turn off Find my iPhone through iCloud settings will prompt for your Apple ID . If the device is factory reset when powered off through iTunes , it will still require activation using your Apple ID . Putting the device in lost mode is probably better since eventually the thief will decide to return it once they realize whomever they sell or give it to will keep getting reminded that the device was lost and should be returned to you .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
I do n't know of a general purpose Bluetooth only control that exists on the App store ( but that store is really hard to search these days for a needle in the haystack of apps ) , but one of the more common remote control software packages does say it will work without WiFi on the Mac . <URL> Once you 've installed the free Mac software and tested that you are OK tethering the Mac to the phone ( which can use prodigious amounts of cellular data ) you can download the free and ad supported iOS app . <URL> There is IAP to remove the ads if you really like it over time . I prefer to use the computer 's create network and tether over USB if needed for control in situations where I do n't have a pre-existing WiFi network . The apps I prefer for that are : <URL> - <URL> Rowmote Pro by Evan Schoenberg - <URL> Touchpad is truly standalone , just turn on screen sharing on your Mac and run the app . Rowmote Pro is more integrated with various apps such as spottily , hulu , etc. . . Both function fabulously as a keyboard and mouse/trackpad for OS X from iOS and I find I use both for different tasks at different times .
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
<URL> has estimated current price for every model ( It 's at the bottom of the table ) . I 'm not sure where they are getting those from though .
Yes and no . The newer iOS devices have internal temperature sensors and will let you know when the internal temperatures are so high that damage is of concern . You basically get locked out of the device until it 's cool enough to run again . As long as the sensor is working , it is safe to use the device up until it shuts itself off . This protection should cover you from charging or operating the device and causing harm to the components in the short term as well as drastic long term damage to the battery . If you are concerned about the <URL> - then yes , do worry about temperature . At 0 ° C - you can expect to lose between 2 and 6 % of the capacity per year depending on the average charge in the battery ( the lower is at 40 % average charge - the higher is 100 % average charge ) . If the temperature is 25 ° C - these losses jump to 4 % to 20 % capacity loss . If you store/use the phone for one year at 40 ° C which most people would consider very hot to hold - the losses in capacity are 15 % to 40 % annually . Charging the battery this hot or hotter is even worse for the health of the battery . So , a few times of limited use under 40 ° C should n't be of concern , but leaving it in a very hot car ( > 50 ° C ) can be very damaging if it 's charging or there for hours or days . Whenever you can keep it cooler , and not fully charged for long periods of time , your battery will degrade less over time . You can weigh the need to use the battery when warm with the eventual replacement cost of $ 79 if you should ever just need a battery swapped out by Apple .
Does it have to be one of those HP printers ? No . It can be a Brother , or an Epson , or others . First , <URL> ? Second , after reading that page , at the bottom , did you follow the <URL> that was provided ? Printers not listed in this article are not supported by AirPrint . Note : Some printers listed in this article will require a firmware update out of the box to become AirPrint-enabed . See the manufacture 's documentation or website for details . The AirPrint-enabled printer must be connected to the same home Wi-Fi network as the iOS device . This is the default configuration in most home Wi-Fi networks . Now , assuming that you DID both of these things , and you did see the model printers that were being offered by all those different manufacturers ... what is your actual question . Are you asking if one of those printers listed there actually works to allow printing from your iPhone ? If you really want to stick with an HP , it can be any one of these ...
You could certainly script this . There are many approaches that would work . It depends on how comfortable you are with the various tools , and if your Mac automatically logs into a user account . If your Mac automatically logs into your account on powering on , consider using Automator or AppleScript , and <URL> . Automator and Twitter Consider combining this <URL> . You could send a private tweet when your account is logged in . Save the workflow as an application and add it your account 's Login Items : System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups Alternative Approaches If your Mac does not automatically log into a user account , you will need to use a shell script approach . Automator and AppleScript both require an active user session . You could use AppleScript or shell script for sending a messages or e-mail . Add <URL> or a <URL> for scheduling the event on start-up or login . This can all be integrated into <URL> as a trigger .
<URL> , somebody did it with success . Worked flawlessly for me I just activated my new iPhone 3GS and then iTunes offered to either set it up as a new iPhone or to restore it from my iPod Touch backup which I did . No problems so far ...
It 's in the network settings : Wi-Fi join your network if needed tap the blue right arrow Select Static instead of DHCP/BootP and enter in the fixed IP you prefer Visit <URL> if you want pictures to guide you to the network settings part of the settings app . This only works on Wi-Fi since your carrier issues you an IP address . You could also use a VPN profile to tunnel all traffic to a fixed IP if you had a router / server set up to provide that sort of IP / DHCP to iOS devices .
end question
start question
How well does the Apple Magic Trackpad perform as a mouse replacement ?
I 've found the trackpad to be great for general purpose use ( particularly the 3-finger swipe-to-drag gesture and the wonderful inertial scrolling ) but I 've found it too inaccurate for GUI development work . When I 'm laying out screens for software development , or creating graphics for said software , it 's too awkward to exactly position things with . I suspect you will find a similar problem if you are touching-up images etc. . I 've found the ergonomics to be good , to be honest - I mostly use the Magic Trackpad and when that 's not suitable for a job ( see above ) I switch to a Magic Mouse for a couple of hours . I have relatively small hands and find the Magic Mouse to be a really comfortable mouse , with no strain on fingers or wrist even after prolonged use . The trackpad gives you less to ' lean on ' but I have n't found myself with any wrist ache or strain even when I 've been using it solid for a day , etc. .
When it comes to alternatives of Finder , there are two major alternatives . First , you have <URL> . It looks a lot like the normal Finder , but it can do so much more . You can copy/paste across windows , you can work with tabs or dual screen , ... It 's my personal favorite . I 've been using it for many months now . The second alternative is <URL> . I do n't have any personal experience with this software , but when I take a look at their website , it has some cool features too . So , my advice is to check those two options and I can suggest you TotalFinder !
The answer boils down to how much work the compression algorithm can do to squeeze the file down , and how much quality loss you are willing to tolerate . Dark Knight on Blu-ray uses VC-1 encoding at 24Mbps , and it 's around 27GB on disk . Good thing BDs have so much room ! The goal is to give really good quality . The iPhone encodes things around 17Mbps ( according to the file I just checked ) using h. 264 with the High@L4.1 profile . It has to encode things in real-time because it ca n't stream the raw video to flash . Doing things in real-time limits the amount of work the compressor can do and results in higher file size than slower compression . The iPhone could probably choose to degrade the quality of the video in order to get smaller files , but since you can never get quality back , it makes sense to keep quality there at the beginning . The BD rips you 're talking about have two things in their favor . One is that people are willing to accept a much lower quality than the BD in order to shrink the file size . Also , they have plenty of time to compress the files , so they can easily compress at half or quarter real time . That lets the compression algorithms find a lot more ways to shrink the file size without degrading quality . If you want to store the iPhone videos yourself for later viewing , you can certainly transcode them yourself and shrink them . You probably would not want to use the results for a <URL> but they would be perfectly good for keeping memories .
It 's possible to have more than 1 email account associated with an Apple ID , without the 2nd address actually being one . So for example while my Apple ID is from a personal domain , say xyz@1234.com, I also have an icloud email address xyz123@me.com that is associated with my Apple ID . If your wide used a mobile me account , maybe as part of a family pack , and you migrated it to icloud , it 's possible that it has gained such a link in some way .
I installed a third party utility to remap these keys on my MacBook Pro running OS X 10.8 . Here are the steps I used : ( 1 ) <URL> and install KeyRemap4MacBook.app ( 2 ) Edit ( or create ) the following file in a text editor : ... so that its content is : ( 3 ) Select " Preferences " from the little KeyRemap4MacBook icon in the OS X MenuBar at the top of the screen . ( 4 ) In KeyRemap4MacBook 's " Change Key " tab , tick " JKLI to Arrow Keys " . ( if this option does n't appear , you may need to click the " ReloadXML " button ) You should now be able to use the Function key with J | K | L | I to control the cursor , in addition to the Arrow keys .
I upgraded Xquartz and the problem went away . Windows open below the osx title bar now instead of underneath it .
In the " unusual " camp there 's a program called <URL> that purports to turn your trackpad into a Wacom-like tablet . They also sell a special stylus and sketching software . For music there 's <URL> , which allows you to create music using trackpad for input , and <URL> , a DJ ' ing app that lets you " scratch " records with your trackpad .
Macworld run <URL> with a collection of accessories : In our testing , even many form-fitting iPad 2 accessories work with the third-generation iPad . For example , most dock-cradle accessories -- such as speaker docks , chargers , and even Apple 's iPad Keyboard Dock -- released prior to the new iPad work fine . ( This is likely because many of these accessories were designed to fit both the iPad 2 and the original iPad , and the original iPad is even thicker than the new model . ) Similarly , most iPad stands and mounts -- especially those that hold the iPad loosely in a groove , slot , or cradle , or on easel-style supports -- work perfectly with the iPad . Even Twelve South 's HoverBar , which uses a rigid-plastic , corner-hugging cradle , fits the new iPad , albeit with a tighter fit than when mounting an iPad 2 . Even better , Apple 's site now states that the <URL> dock lists compatibility with the iPad 1st generation and the <URL> dock with the iPad 2 2nd generation and iPad 3rd generation .
If your airline is Delta Check into your flight with <URL> of Delta 's website on your iPhone/iPod Touch ( have your flight 's confirmation number ready ) . When you complete your checkin , you will be given an option to add the pass to your Passbook ( aka Wallet app ) . Tap into that , then press the button to add the pass to your wallet . Then you can skip the check-in kiosk at the airport if you have your phone and the pass handy . Any other airline Download the airline 's app ( yep , only Delta lets you use the mobile site to add a boarding pass to Wallet ) and open it up . Here are some apps from the major carriers ( though do n't fret if your airline is not on this list , it 's rather incomplete ; just search for it in the app store ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Proceed into the app ( have your confirmation number or loyalty account info ready ) and choose the option ( location of this button varies between apps ) . Follow the instructions to check in , and at the end , you 'll see a button to or . Press that , then press the button in the Navbar and you 'll be set .
It turns out Yosemite enables mouse acceleration by default . it can be disabled by typing this in terminal : After changing this setting in Terminal , you 'll need to logout and log back in to your Mac . Relaunching Finder will work too ( option + right-click on Finder icon in dock - > Relaunch )
Here are 5 Mac utilities that alter the mouse acceleration curve , speeds , and/or add features to mice in OS X : <URL> $ 20 ( Shareware ; Free unlimited , fully functional trial ) USB Overdrive is a popular program that works with just about any USB or Bluetooth input device . It allows users to customize mouse acceleration , scrolling , clicking , and more . You can even configure per-application settings . A new version that supports Multi-Touch in Apple 's Magic Mouse is in development and expected soon . Version 3.0.1 compatible with 10.4 , 10.5 , or 10.6 <URL> $ 20 ( Shareware ; Free 30 day trial ) Aside from mouse acceleration , SteerMouse offers a ton of other advanced features . Configure up to 16 buttons , modify scroll wheels/balls , and set the cursor to automatically move to a specific location on the screen when a window is activated . Support for the Apple Magic Mouse is pending . Version 4.0.1 compatible with 10.4 , 10.5 , or 10.6 <URL> Free While MouseZoom does not alter the acceleration curve itself , it does let users bump tracking speeds beyond those available in System Preferences . An ideal solution ? No , but it 's a free alternative that helps ease the pain . Version 2.2 compatible with 10.1 , 10.2 , 10.4 , 10.4 , or 10.5 <URL> Free This Preference Pane is based on Richard Bentley 's MouseFix -- a non-user-friendly command line utility . This version , however , makes it easy to increase mouse precision and speed up mouse movement with visual aids . Version 1.0 compatible with 10.4 or 10.5 <URL> Free This is a brand new piece of software that just came to be within the past couple weeks . It 's in beta and still buggy , but it packs some nice features and is in active development . I ca n't say for sure whether it customizes OS X 's acceleration curve or just supercharges the maximum tracking speed . The real reason to give it a shot , though , is if you have a Magic Mouse or MacBook that supports Multi-Touch gestures . BetterTouchTool lets users assign specific actions to advanced finger gestures and can simulate a middle-click . It can even bring the Mighty Mouse 's Exposé functionality to the Magic Mouse . Compatible with 10.6 <URL> $ 15 ControllerMate is a controller programming tool that allows you to customize the behavior of your HID devices -- keyboards , keypads , mice , trackballs , joysticks , gamepads , throttles , among others . ControllerMate 's philosophy is to be as flexible as possible , to provide a set of basic programming tools , and to allow the user to combine those tools in an endless variety of ways . SOURCE : This was posted on Nov 24th , 2009 at <URL> . Some utilities are probably updated now . I 've used USB Overdrive with certain success .
can get confused if your short name is different between the two machines . You can check what your short name is on each machine with . To go to a particular account , use . If you still have trouble , use . You may see things like checking . If you want to avoid typing all of the time , you can make ( or add to ) the file with the lines editing each line for your particular case ( the is your nickname , the is the IP address , or mymac.local or whatever you currently use for ) . Then you can just use . If you still have trouble , post some output from but be careful to not post anything private ( like IP addresses ) .
The bootcamp FAQ is helpful for these sorts of questions <URL> <URL>
A simple click should do it . I find that it takes a second sometimes to reconnect so I usually click and move the mouse side to side until I see the mouse cursor move . Here is the official document from Apple : If you turn your mouse or trackpad off or turn off the Bluetooth option in your computer , the connection between the computer and the mouse or trackpad will be lost . When you turn on the mouse or trackpad and Bluetooth , you can re-establish this connection by simply clicking the mouse button or trackpad surface . <URL>
Did you bring it into a Apple store ? If you did and asked I 'm sure they would do it . If you sent it in , they do n't have to do it , but maybe if you get a lucky the technician will do it .
You can get scroll ( and maybe a few others ) by using Apple 's Boot Camp drivers . Article <URL> . All the links to the drivers seem to be gone , so you may have to extract them yourself .
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
They will . I believe , but do n't quote me , replacement cost will be $ 99 . Apple will only deny service if there is catastrophic damage ( imagine a phone in 3 pieces ) , is a counterfeit device or if it is missing parts . If it is only liquid damage then they will likely offer replacement at that discounted cost .
In Lion , the trackpad double-click speed slider and a few other trackpad options have been moved to : .
Be sure to click the mouse once to wake it up , because it will likely have gone to sleep .
end question
start question
Is it possible to get GNU sed for OSX ?
I know you said however I could not find it anywhere so assuming it 's a typo and you actually meant you can install it with : Or
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
Did you have Find My iPad activated via the iCloud settings on your iPad ? If so , then you will be able to do any of the following on your iPad : locate it on a map send a message to it play a sound on it remotely lock it remotely wipe it Just for the record , when you enable iCloud , options 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 above are automatically enabled . If you have Location Services turned on , Find My iPad can also help you locate your iPad on a map as long as it 's connected to the Internet . If you had this activated , or are n't sure if you did , then follow these steps : use the Find My iPhone app on an iPhone or another iPad or visit <URL> from a computer with a web browser . Log in to your iCloud account ( this may or may not be the same as your usual Apple ID ) . Once you 're logged in , see if your missing iPad is listed under My Devices . If it 's listed , then that means it 's been set up for Find My iPad ( a good sign ) . Now , if it 's currently connected to the internet , you have two possibilities : if you had location services activated on the iPad , you should see its location come up . Clicking/tapping on the icon will display the Actions option and tapping on this will give you the following three choices : Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . if you did n't have location services activated on the iPad , it will display a message like " Online , no location available " . In this case , clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will give you the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . If it 's not connected , it will display as being " Offline " . Clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will also display the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . Select the option you want . For the benefit of others , there are other services to achieve what you want . However , all of these involve installing third party software on the device ( and since you 're asking the question it 's safe to assume you have n't done this ) . Regardless of whether you have Find My iPad activated , this would be a good time to reset your passwords for any online services , email addresses , etc. . However , in doing so , you would be best to change your email passwords first to minimise the risk of any password reset info being intercepted on the iPad .
Yes it is for iPhone 3G and 3GS , but not for iPhone 4 as it uses a different bootrom . Just google " Android on iPhone 3GS " and click on the first entry , where you 'll find instructions on how to do it .
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
No it is not possible . The screen is what is limiting the resolution . That does mean that you can set up and use an external monitor with higher resolution as you can read on : <URL>
Apple Mail does n't have a way to do this natively . I ca n't think of another email client that does what you 're describing either . Here are some ideas and workarounds that might help you accomplish something similar to what you describe ; perhaps one of them will suit your needs . The closest option in Apple Mail is to use flags . That only gives you the ability to flag a message . You ca n't even add a note , let alone highlight the text and annotate it . You could try a third-party application like <URL> ( Mavericks 10.9 support is currently in beta ) . It 's a paid application with a robust tagging system , as well as the ability to add notes . This is n't a perfect solution since it does n't allow you to highlight specific text within the email . MailTags has a free demo ; you might want to download it and see if you can reach a solution that works for you . Another option would be to try Outlook : Mac . It has both categories and flags built in . You can also do things like create a task or a note from a message . Once you have created a task or a note from a message , you can do things like highlight text , but not annotate it . It also is n't the original message , but rather a copy of the message . If you do find something that works for what you want to accomplish , please do share it here . Being more effective with email is a goal for many people , after all .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
Text is copied in rich form in iOS 3 + . You can try it by copying some text in Safari and pasting it to Mail . But pasted text format will depend of the app . For example , the SimpleNote app only paste in plain text format , since the service does n't not support image and text styling . There is no native way to see the copied text in HTML form . You 'll have to find an app to do that .
I 've found a great <URL> on that . It shows a list of every app that is compatible with any given iOS version . Do n't try to download the app from them , though , just get the name of it and find it on the App Store .
Here is sample code for doing this in Cocoa ( you can paste it in a new XCode project and build it ) : AppDelegate.h : AppDelegate.m : The only flaw i could see in this sample is i 'm using a character for the play icon and not a image . It could be a problem when the encoding messes something up .
I would try a local Apple Store or Mac repair shop . There 's a good chance they have a few dead keyboards laying around that they 'd be willing to give you a replacement key from .
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
The Quit menu item in Finder can be enabled by Onyx , Cocktail , Secrets etc Directly in Terminal with
You can change the functions of the modifier keys ( Caps Lock , Control , Option , Command ) in System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Modifier Keys . If you have more than one keyboard , the setting window allows you to select and set separate mapping for each one : <URL>
<URL> , promo codes can only be redeemed for apps themselves and not In App Purchases : Promo codes do n't work for In-App Purchase products , including issues for apps in the Magazines &amp; Newspapers category . Update : It 's <URL> since October 28 , 2016 , see <URL> . <URL>
Customize Preview ( easy ) Have you looked under Preview preferences ? You can set Initial Document Scale to 100 % or larger if you want . You might need to adjust the option below that , defining size equal to screen or print sizes . Use a better PDF viewer If Preview.app ca n't do what you want , look into Skim.app Skim has an option to open PDFs as Default , Maximized , or Fit . One of these ought to improve . Customize Preview ( complex ) If you want all three points requested above and want them in Preview.app , I would do the following : Turn on Universal Access so you can script applications via the GUI Make a new app in Automator that accepts PDFs . Replace Preview with this ( open with this by default , put it in your dock so you can drag-and-drop onto it , etc. ) The new app should simply take the input PDF and pass it to Preview , so it displays there The new app should then use Universal Access commands to Maximize the window Set to " Single Continuous Page " Select the mouse tool you want .
This is possible using Do-Not-Disturb - a new feature in iOS 6 . Open Settings.app Go to Notifications > Do Not Disturb Select " Allow Calls From " You have several options . Either create a group , or have only those few people in your Favorites . The best is probably to create a group as that allows you better flexibility . After you have created the group with only the people that you want to allow to reach you , select it from the list . Now , to enable silent mode except for those two people turn on Do Not Disturb in Settings.app . Creating/Editing Groups : This is n't as easy as it appears on iOS . <URL> As mentioned in the accepted answer , your best strategy for creating or editing groups is to go to iCloud.com on your computer . Quoting the answer : " No , there is no way to create or edit contact groups on iOS . I share your frustration ! The best workaround is to use iCloud.com ( or your primary Mac , if you have it with you ) . " But you can add contacts to a particular group , ( though it is n't straight-forward ) : In Contacts , tap the Groups button in the top left Tap " Hide All Contacts " Tap the group that you want to add the contact to ( making it the only visible group ) Tap Done in the top right Tap the Add button ( ) in the top right So , the easiest is to just use a Mac ( if you have one ) or iCloud.com to create and add people to a group . After this is done , the new group with the people that you want to reach you should appear on iPhone .
You can use <URL> . This allows you to set the opacity of a window from the Window menu .
Yes , but you do n't do it within iTunes . If you want the song files you drop into a particular folder to automatically be added to an iTunes playlist , you use Automator to create a folder action like this one : You start Automator , and create a Folder Action . You select the folder you want as the source of files . Then , the action is " Import Files into iTunes " at which point you select the playlist to which you want the songs added . Then you save the Folder Action .
end question
start question
Why is Apple using an older version of OpenSSL ?
OpenSSL is deprecated officially . It exists ( for what little time Apple allows going forward ) to not break software that does n't either migrate to Apple 's alternative or bundle SSL internally with the app . See the Apple Developer link for the deprecation announcement : ( the other links are easier reading / more synthesis of the why as to the what ) <URL> <URL> <URL>
First , make sure you have the " Enable Apple remote plugin " box checked under settings . Also , make sure under Action settings > settings for predefined actions you have the right remote type selected . Then , simply create a new trigger with the remote 's play button and no action . It should disable the remote . ( You may have to restart both keynote and better touch tool for the effect to take place )
The obvious benefit is to recompile the tools with optional features that Apple chose to not enable when they compiled the tools . Also , you can get newer options / patches / bug-fixes if you do n't mind the duplication and the fact that sometimes you also get new bugs with the newer code as well . The downside is that tools like tar and zip know about Mac OS X metadata that the MacPorts versions probably do not .
The set of available columns appears to be fixed , and there is no language column . But the way to change the set of displayed columns is by contextual menu ( right-click ) on the column headers . ( At least in 12.1 -- Apple seems to take pleasure in making sure we ca n't ever get accustomed to any particular UI for iTunes . ) There is a " category " column which I will use . Not ideal , but better than usurping BPM or grouping . Update : Changed my mind . I can put lang : es ; in Grouping and search for that in a " smart playlist . " That still allows me to put other things in Grouping .
Mail automatically highlights emails from Apple . You can turn this off in the Rules tab of Mail Preferences .
You can close all windows of an application ( including Finder ) with ⌘ + ⌥ + w . You can add a quit option to the Finder by running : Considering Finder is responsible for the desktop icons , quitting it rather pointless , but have it !
Make sure to install the <URL> package as well . FUSE is just the compatibility layer , it needs filesystem-specific implementations to be useful .
The font used in the version of Terminal 's icon included with OS X 10.10.0 ' Yosemite ' has been identified <URL> on <URL> as ' Menlo , ' the same font used by default in Terminal 's own shells .
Aside from the service and other qualitative aspects of dealing directly with Apple , the only " advantage " of purchasing direct from the company is the up to date warranty registration . If you purchase your Apple product through a 3rd party , Apple will have on file an " estimated " purchase date based on the model 's manufacturing date . If you want to claim all of the 365 days on your warranty , you will have to send them the receipt ( a scan or picture suffices ) in addition to other purchase information so they can <URL> to reflect the exact date of purchase . Other than that , it makes little difference at the end of the day .
Silverlight - 5.0.61118.0 MacBookPro9 ,2 50 - 10.7.5 ( 11G63 ) 5 - 10.8.2 ( 12A269 ) Silverlight Prefs come up just fine . Installed programs : Chrome 24 Safari 6 Firefox 18 All updates iLife iWork Office 2008 Adobe CS3 VLC Smart Notebook
With some care it can be done safely . It depends by and large on what kind of loads you 're placing on the MacBook when it 's being used like this . The MacBook Pro 's ventilation operates optimally with the lid open . Closing the lid restricts airflow out of the vents that run along the inside of the hinge on the laptop as seen here : <URL> When the lid is closed , there 's a slight gap along the bottom that 's used as an exit route for the hot air coming out of those vents as seen here : <URL> If you 're closing the lid , you should ensure that the entirety of this exit path along the bottom of the laptop is free from obstructions . That means not placing the bottom of laptop on a flat surface . Generally a vertical stand like this is employed if you want to operate the laptop with the lid closed and ensure ventilation remains adequate : <URL> You should monitor the temperature sensors of your laptop to ensure your workloads do n't push the unit beyond normal operating temperatures when you 're using it with the lid close . You can use something like <URL> to keep an eye on critical , system operating parameters such as CPU use and the various temperature sensors in your MacBook to make sure they stay within their safe operating limits .
Mountain Lion does n't ship with any GCC , but you can install GCC 4.7 . I have done this on my machine .
Yes , all updates to iOS so far have been backwards-compatible with older versions of apps , so the apps should work fine .
You can upgrade to Mountain Lion from both Lion and Snow Leopard ( SL ) . With SL you will need to be running the latest version 10.6.8 and then you can just buy it through the app store . check this link for more details : <URL> You just need to make sure your machine can handle Mountain Lion which you can see with this app from the app store <URL> OS ' are like normal apps - they can be installed on up to 5 machines . Good Luck on the upgrade :-)
Apple has a program called <URL> and detects if the cable has a certified chip inside . The chip just says that it 's been officially ' Made For iOS . '
The E symbol means " Explicit " . You can enable or disable explicit content within Settings on your device . You 'll find the " ALLOW MUSIC &amp; PODCASTS RATED " option under General - > Restrictions - > Music &amp; Podcasts . You may need to enter a PIN code to access the Restrictions settings . You can disable the restrictions entirely by selecting the " Disable Restrictions " option at the top of the Restrictions window .
This bug is known to the Chrome developers and has been filed under ... <URL> : Dictionary keyboard shortcut does n't work in Lion Basically the problems are timing issues for some websites which take too long to respond to information needed to show the dictionary . This is what resek@chromium.org says : There 's likely not much that we can do here . We have to block the UI thread to implement this feature , which is bad and so that 's done on a timeout . If the web page takes too long to respond for the information we need to display the popup , we give up and unblock the UI . If we did n't do this , Chrome would look like it 's hung , waiting on the web page to respond . We collect timing information about this , and most pages succeed well below the timeout , but there 's also some class of pages that do not respond in time ( more than 1500ms , which is what starts to be perceived as sluggish/hung ) .
It 's possible to have more than 1 email account associated with an Apple ID , without the 2nd address actually being one . So for example while my Apple ID is from a personal domain , say xyz@1234.com, I also have an icloud email address xyz123@me.com that is associated with my Apple ID . If your wide used a mobile me account , maybe as part of a family pack , and you migrated it to icloud , it 's possible that it has gained such a link in some way .
Apple <URL> a " world traveler kit " which is effectively the plug bit for their chargers , so that would be a definite yes .
The Apple Hardware Test only detects problems with the computer 's internal hardware components ( logic board , memory and wireless components ) not external components nor software-related problems . If the AHT displays an error it will be a hardware failure of any kind , which , in most of the cases , will be solved by replacing the component . So if you were to contact any Technical Support regarding this issue , providing this information could be helpful but most likely unnecessary .
end question
start question
Do more desktops occupy more ram ?
I 've never seen a single instance here I could pin a performance issue on Mission Control having 5 spaces instead of 15 instead of one . Something else always seems to be the constraint such as RAM pressure or IO pressure . The code that manages the window system already treats each layer virtually and the math is done in some heavily optimized routines and the data structures there are quite well designed so although in theory - tracking more pixels could be a problem for performance , in reality it is n't . If you are skeptical , you can reboot your Mac and do this test : Open whatever set of Apps and documents you want to test with . Enter Mission control and delete all the spaces except for one . Open terminal and run Watch for a few minutes to be sure all the running processes are done allocating RAM . Switch to each App and hide or show the windows you want for your test . Once the free and active numbers are steady - open mission control and leave it open for a minute or two - then go back and inspect RAM allocations . Add another 10 spaces and see how RAM allocations change . Move app windows to any desktop and verify that no significant RAM allocation changes happen when you are using Mission Control and that they only happen when an app opens a new document or window . Yes - if you tend to keep more things open when you have more " virtual space " , that takes more RAM , but the fact that you have X apps and Y windows open is what takes the RAM - not which of Z mission control virtual screens you have open at any one time .
Try <URL> ( <URL> ) . It has convenient toggles in Notification Center and Apple Watch .
No not really , when you open a program whatever core process it calls into action are run every time . One of which will , in your case , checks on the various permissions it has to make or accept outgoing/incoming connections . The act of double clicking and opening the application ( even after choosing to deny such privileges ) will overwrite/trash your past decisions to DENY incoming/outgoing connections simply because you gave it permission to open ( not when you ACCEPT though - in this case any previously accepting connections will not continue to ask for your permission ) . Unless there is a setting within the application 's " Preferences " or you change some code within the " Contents " of its bundle then it is highly likely that it will prompt you every time . BTW these permissions requests are meant to alert and pop up every time to keep users from making " permanent decisions " ( AKA turning off popup notification and permission requests ) . Without the popup requests , switching permissions settings back and forth would become a much more difficult task and more than likely need the help of a genius bar rep to switch them back and forth ( for the not-so-savvy users at least ) .
To clarify , for PowerPC based Macs , this memory was called PRAM , but for Intel based Macs , <URL> . To show the contents of the NVRAM or even manipulate them , you can use the shell commando in Terminal . For info on usage , execute . If you just want to display the entire contents of the NVRAM , you can execute it with th parameter :
No , so far ! Hopefully , apple will add that option to the next update ?
Yes , it supports up to 8GB of memory . Make sure that memory is 1066 MHz , not 1333 , or you 'll be unable to boot to MacOS . If you are unable to find 1066MHz DIMM , you could be able to re-flash the SPD chip of a 1333MHz DIMMs using a technique I described at the <URL> . Note that not all 1333MHz chips can be flashed .
Even with multi-homing on iOS 7 starting to allow traffic over LTE and WiFi simultaneously , there is n't a good way to accomplish this on OS X Mavericks and lower . I have run <URL> on macs since 10.4 and it 's really nice when you have a gigabit switch . You will need a switch that runs LACP and two physical ethernet ports like is typical on G4 &amp; G5 PowerMacs days and of course the entire MacPro line . This is built into the OS X network stack and you need nothing but the hardware and a compatible ethernet switch . Mac OS X wo n't show LACP as an option without two ethernet ports . I do n't know of a switch that does LACP over wireless or allows mixing of wired and wireless interfaces . You might be able to trick the OS some way , but without the switch to cooperate you 'll have to rewrite LACP on the switch for that to work . It 's much easier to segregate certain traffic over specific interfaces by modifying your routing table . This will allow you to send some traffic over wifi and others over the wire . For example netflix and such could be routed over one connection if you set up a route to their network to prefer one gateway IP on the ISP you prefer . It 's not feasible to tell an application to use only one interface as that has to be " baked " in to that app and not common practice . What is common practice is to use local routing tables ( or routing tables on the router ) to steer certain traffic to one gateway . More sophisticated routers have quality of service where you specify some metric like VOIP or video conference traffic is a priority - so when the network is overloaded in some specific , measurable way , then non critical traffic will be shaped or steered to a different route to keep the fast network clear for better responses . These routers and the knowledge to run them do not come cheaply . I 'd guess $ 3k us for the hardware and triple that for training and software licenses on the routers .
Yes , you can buy third party RAM . I usually buy <URL> RAM . As long as it is made to be compatible with your machine ( Same Bus Speed and such ) . Usually , you can search these companies sites for RAM for your specific make and model MBP and they will have suggestions for it . You can sometimes even put in more RAM than Apple says it can . The companies test newer machines to see how much RAM they can handle . For instance , the new current gen MBP only supports 8GB according to Apple , but 16GB of RAM will still work and wo n't cause any problems . It will work perfectly . I am running 8GB of RAM in my machine , it cost me 46 dollars with shipping over 200 dollars from Apple . Just be sure to keep you old RAM just in case your new RAM goes bad , which it most likely wo n't , but that way you have back up RAM to use in just such an occasion . I hope that helps .
There is no way I can think of to use AppleScript to filter messages directly , but I guess you could go the ugly route of redirecting " All Messages " to an AppleScript and then handling them from there back to Mail.app . ==== Update : To give you a better idea of what I ´ m talking about , you ´ ll have to create a new rule with condition " All Messages " and execute an Applescript . For example to check for the subject , you ´ ll want something similar to this : Note that of course you could easily use a statement here to use whatever command line tool you want to compare the subject with a regexp , like and so on .
The <URL> article pegs it at 600MB difference on the iPhone 5 . DEVICE SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 7.1.2 ) SPACE AVAILABLE ( IOS 8.0 GM ) 32GB iPhone 4S ( AT&T ) 27.4 GB 26.6 GB 32GB iPhone 5 ( VZW ) 27.3 GB 26.7 GB 32GB iPhone 5C ( AT&T ) 27.2 GB 26.5 GB 64GB iPhone 5S ( AT&T ) 56.0 GB 55.1 GB
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Mission Control and change the settings for " Move left a space " and " Move right a space " or disable them completely .
You have to take into account that the exact number is an approximated value and that the device needs additional space to install the application . I 'm guessing that although the application says it 's 643Mb , it really uses some more when it gets installed . You 're really pushing the limits of your iOS there :)
You ca n't do it out of one copy of the app , but it seems that you can duplicate the app . You can see ( somewhat complicated ) instructions here : <URL> I have n't done this personally , but this looks like it should work .
Apparently you can ... Upload any image using the Add image ( not the attachment ) button in edit mode . Once uploaded . While still in edit mode . Click on the same line right " before " the image , not on the image itself ... in the white space . A new button will appear in the edit toolbar at the top it will say Link ( down arrow ) . Click that ... it works just like normal links , and you can link that photo anywhere . Click Save ... now when you click the image ... instead of getting another window with the preview ... you get redirected to the URL you provided .
No , each Desktop ( Space ) will have the same resolution , whatever the Display 's resolution is set at . You could use an App like <URL> to more easily/quickly change the resolution as needed/wanted as you change between Desktops .
Look at it in another way : You do n't have 8 desktops but you just have 1 desktop . The applications are bundled into groups and only certain groups of applications are shown on your desktop screen . When another application becomes active from another group , then the selected group will become active on your desktop . It feels like your have 8 desktops but in fact you only have 1 . So to answer your question : It will need more memory than a static desktop but I doubt it 's even Noticeable .
Syncing between all macs , pcs and iOS devices will be possible when iCloud is released to the public along with iOS 5 .
I 'll preface this with , I 'm not an IOS developer , but I 'm sure it works much the same was as Android and other GPS APIs . When an App calls the GPS APIs it 's calling an abstraction to the GPS/Location system and receives position information that the system presents . So in this case when one application asks the OS for Location data , the OS uses a mix of GPS and Wifi data to determine the location of the device . If at the same time another application requests location data , the phone would just use the location data that it has instead of having to turn on the radios again .
In the iPhone app , at the bottom of the list of episodes you will always find the link you can tap to " Get More Episodes " . That is a hardwired link to that podcast 's page on iTunes . This link will be shown regardless of whether or not there are more episodes actually available . The podcast pages in the iTunes app and in iTunes on the desktop are the same and contain the same episode list . The episode lists themeselves are not controlled or determined by Apple or iTunes , but by the makers of each podcast . Podcast makers use different feed systems ( like adlib or feeedburner ) and they have different bandwith limitations depending on their own usage terms . Podcasts like This American Life , for example , in order to minimize bandwith costs , will only keep the latest episode on their episode list . So when you tap on " Get More Episodes " you will only get a list of one . Podcasts like This Week In Tech , for example , have bandwith sponsors that allow them to host most of their back catalogue . So when you tap on " Get More Epidodes " , you will get a list of fifty or more . It basically all depends on how each podcast maker handles their feed and bandwith costs . Hope this helps .
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
end question
start question
Can user accounts be managed via the command line ?
To create an account in the Users folder Create and set the shell property to bash . Create and set the user 's full name . ( Displayed in some of the panels/login screen ) Create and set the user 's ID . ( this is the unique id , you need to find out what id your last user create was and add one ) Create and set the user 's group ID property . ( This can be your default group ) Create and set the user home directory . Set the password . ( dont use password as a password ) Some more details can be found on <URL>
Yes , it does . From within Mail , open up preferences , select the Accounts tab , and click on the small " + " button in the lower left-hand corner of the window . This will run the " Add Account " wizard to guide you through the rest of the steps .
Though not directly answering your question this line will give you the time in seconds since the last user interaction which comes from what OS X considers to be an idle user . ( independently of screen-savers or black displays . )
The easiest way to schedule a workflow is to use iCal for the scheduling : if you have followed the steps of the tutorial you linked to to the letter and have saved the workflow as an iCal reminder , Automator will have added a new event named like your workflow to a local calendar called " Automator " ( creating it if it does ' t exist yet ) . This event has a reminder set to execute the workflow 0 minutes before the event . To execute it every day on 4 a.m. , just schedule the event that way ( you could also set it to only repeat on weekdays -- or to anything iCal will let you do with a scheduled event ) . To make sure the triggering event itself is not included , make sure the " Filter iCal Calendar " action ( the 1st step of your workflow ) excludes the " Automator " calendar -- either because filter conditions will bypass it anyway , or by setting a filter condition to " Name is not Automator " . You can hide the " Automator " calendar from displaying in iCal by unchecking its checkbox in iCal 's calendar list , thus making your workflow execute invisibly for all practical purposes . Also note iCal does not need to run for the event to be triggered , but you must be logged in and the computer should not be sleeping ( a workaround for that last gotcha is to <URL> -- this would also be necessary if you scheduled with or ) . The actual workflow is to be found in and can be set to a " open file " reminder on any event , should you ever need to do so .
Generally this is equivalent to dragging a file onto an app 's icon : You can use the complete path to your app if it is n't in an expected place .
This <URL> shows how to do it using Terminal . The Terminal command that opens Chrome using the Safari user agent string : I tested this , and it works with the current version of Chrome . You can find various User-Agent strings <URL> .
Resetting the PRAM works the same way it always did . This is a function of the hardware - not the OS . What makes you think it does n't work anymore ? ( tested on Macbook , Mac Mini ) .
<URL> Seems like " no " for 2011 . Grr . . very frustrating !
well , the only way that I could find out was to use password protected Restrictions . Looks like I have to manually set the Restrictions password on each device and then turn on the Location services restriction . If anyone comes up with a better solutions , please let me know .
I found what I needed in ~ / Library/Caches/com . apple.mcc.accounts It 's an XML file and it has 4 occurences of each wrong email . Updated and it works fine in Mail.app
Compass Compass should n't require the Command Line Developer Tools , just a compatible <URL> environment . I suggest a ruby version tool instead of using the system ruby , so that you can control your ruby version/environment . I favor chruby , but any of these works well and can be installed without needing the Command Line Dev Tools : <URL> <URL> <URL> Once you have a ruby env with the version you want you should be able to install Compass from the command line ( as detailed on the <URL> ) : Note : the " $ " is n't part of the command , just an indicator of the terminal prompt Command Line Developer Tools While the above works for Compass , it sounds like you are asking about general package management with OS X as well . <URL> is a very popular tool for this , but depends on the Command Line Dev Tools . <URL> is an alternative but has the same dependency . I 'm not aware of a package manager for OS X that does n't depend on the Command Line Dev Tools . In case you have n't tried one of these methods to install the tools I 'm throwing them out there : Download directly from <URL> ( you need to login with Apple ID ) . The URLs provided there may be resumable if the download is interrupted , and may be more reliable than installing without Xcode via the terminal . Install without Xcode via the terminal : Having the tools definitely makes things easier ; I personally love Homebrew ( and it 's offspring <URL> ) for managing both CLI and GUI packages .
The <URL> is a great device for sound input and output via USB .
There is currently no information on whether this update will appear via the built-in App Store update mechanism - as described by <URL> in the <URL> : " Nobody knows because Apple does n't publish any update/patch strategies , and any other possible answer will not be backed up by facts " .
It 's possible it install various versions of java . It 's not possible to be of more assistance without details on what versions you have and some explanation of what your sticking point is . <URL> for OS X so you 'll need to get an <URL> to get that version . The simplest way would be to install older OS on to virtual machines if you do n't run the specific OS X version that was current when Java 1.6 was current .
I was going to start explaining you what you can ( and ca n't ) do or how hard was this going to be , but a single google query lead me to this <URL> an Apple forum . I 'm going to quote the relevant part , but I suggest you read it all because there 's more information there and more " why " questions . We assume you have copied all the music to a Central location ( be it a machine or a NAS drive or whatever ) , so somewhere in the network or your harddrive all your music files ( library ) are accessible to your wife and you ( and theoretically both can write to that location , important when adding files ) . It does n't matter if they are in different computers or just accounts . With that in mind : Each future user of the library should launch iTunes with the Option key held down and Create Library . ( A blank one ) . With this new iTunes window open , go into iTunes Preferences and UN-check " Keep iTunes Music folder organised " and " Copy files to iTunes Music folder when adding to library " . Then , they must add the music to the Library , selecting the tracks from the folder where all the music is stored ( the common place mentioned above ) , which will import all the tracks into this new Library without copying the files again ( hence why step # 2 ) . From this point they can create their own playlists and stuff and they can even check the things they unchecked in step # 2 , in case they decide to add new tracks ( see drawback ) , you 'll want to have them in the central location . From this point they both have a Library.XML ( stores playlists , tracks location , etc. ) and that library.xml points to the physical mp3/4 on the " common location " ( tracks are not duplicated as you requested ) . DRAWBACK ( and the fact that there 's no better solution ) : If either user of the library adds new music , regardless of the " keep music organized " and " copy files " checkboxes , the other user ( s ) are not going to see the changes . The reason being that they are modifying their local copy of the library " xml " ( which is where all the playlist and stuff is stored ) . If USER1 adds 1 track , USER2 will have to find the track in the library and manually add it to his/her own library . As you can see , iTunes was not really designed for multiuser . Go ahead and read the post , it will give you more pros/cons and maybe other ideas . EDIT : one way to know " what is new " in the library folder ( where the music is actually stored ) would be to create a smart folder that shows files added in the last " xx " days ( for example ) . :)
This is one of the preferences that Server can manage using the managed preferences ( sometimes referred to as MCX on older servers and now called profiles on Lion and later for servers ) . Here is a short Apple document covering the high points on how to use managed preferences and the workgroup manager . This would be a good , safe item to test with in getting started with WorkGroup Manager and a couple of lightly used Macs . <URL>
There is no command line access for the Microsoft Remote Desktop Client . But the free and most excellent <URL> does handle links which would let you call it from a launcher of your choice or even via on the command line . The <URL> lays out how you can use URL encoded parameters to open full-configured RDP sessions . rdp : / / URL syntax CoRD handles rdp : / / URLs , which you can use from many places inside OS X. Unfortunately , there is no way to extend Finder 's " Connect to Server " dialog , which supports launching VNC URLs , so we ca n't launch CoRD from there . If Apple changes this ( or if anybody is aware of a way to extend it ) we would love to hear about it . If you want to use urls with existing saved servers , you can ( as of 0.5.3 ) ! Just use the label in place of a hostname : New Servers From a shell ( using Terminal ) : Additional parameters can be used to start a fully-configured session via the URL : The following parameters can be set for the session via a query string ( as of 0.5.2 ) : Example Note : When using ampersands ( &amp; ) from the command line , they have to be escaped with a backslash ( ) . Colons ( :) can be used in place of ampersands for the same effect , without needing to be escaped . Passwords with any special characters in them , @ , : , &amp; , etc need to be encoded according to the <URL> Command Line Use CoRD supports the following command line options : - host - port - u - d - p - a [ 8 | 16 | 24 | 32 ] set screen depth - width set screen resolution width - height set screen resolution height Example Caveats Launching CoRD from the command line this way causes a fresh instance of CoRD to be opened . One symptom of this is multiple Dock icons . This overrides or decreases the effectiveness of many of CoRD strong points , including unified sessions , etc. . For that reason , we recommend using the open command , and rdp : / / URLs to launch sessions .
There is no provision to re-sign the files that have been downloaded so by policy and by design , purchased items remain under the Apple ID used to purchase the item . This means you ca n't divide up purchases after the fact ( but you can agree to share the password and share the 5 authorized computers ) even if you split up with a partner who shared an account with you . You also ca n't " combine " past purchases - that account and password need to stay around and you can register a new " email " for communications of password resets but that original apple ID remains even long after you 've left AOL or whatever name you originally used to purchase items .
You missed a step when setting up iCloud . On each Mac , you can set the default account to be iCloud in the general preferences . Now , you 'll need a short clean up to migrate all your incorrectly filed contacts . Select Accounts and temporarily disable each iCloud / Exchange / online account . Then export all the " On My Mac " contacts to a vCard file and delete them ( you have a backup of your Mac and if paranoid , a full export of all contacts before you delete things , no ? ) Once things are clean , enable the default account , check that it 's set like above , and drag the contacts onto the " All bike@whatever " Import all the contacts , even if there are duplicates as you can then have Contacts look for duplicates and merge / update existing contacts as needed . Once you 've deleted all contacts from On My Mac and deselected it as the default , Contacts should hide that group from view and simplify your contacts going forward . At this point , optionally enable other cloud contact sources and re-verify the default account .
The short answer is no . OS X Lion does n't have a way to assign a keyboard shortcut to Fast User Switching ( which is going to the Login Window without logging off the current user ) . There are , however , various alternatives to achieve that . You 've pointed to different workarounds ( I have n't tested those ) , I 'll name a few more : What I use : <URL> . Simply invoke it , type " log . . " and you already have the option to press enter to go to the login window , ca n't get much faster than that ( you could assign a shortcut to that if you wish ) . Although I have n't used it in a while , the " competitor " <URL> had something similar , the command was " lock " as far as I can remember . <URL> : recommended by other users ( I 've seen this app in friend 's Macs but never used it myself ) . It will also do what you want ( shortcut to go to the Login Screen ) . It 's been also recommended in the answers you linked . I add it here for reference and because someone mentioned it in the comments by @Steven Fischer Using pure Scripting like the one used <URL> . Note however , that most of the scripts that you will find , will make you write and hardcode the account 's password , which is not a good idea . But if you check there , there 's an alternative that does n't do that . I have n't tested that myself , but if that script works , assigning it to a keyboard shortcut via Automator/Service ought to be a simple task . <URL> Super User answer better explains the process ( thanks @andy ) In any case , there 's no built in method by default , but as you can see , with some digging and/or third party , you can do it . Using something like Launchbar or Alfred is a good idea for other reasons anyway ;)
end question
start question
How do I make my iOS devices use British/Australian/Commonwealth spelling ?
Spelling is determined by the keyboard setting you 're using . Go to Settings > General > International > Keyboards , and make sure that English ( UK ) is added . It also helps to remove the US keyboard so that you do n't accidentally get stuck in that .
<URL> works now : Just enter Username and password and leave the other settings default : In chat you can activate OTR at the top right corner
For what it 's worth , my iPod Touches ' ( 2g and 3g ) WiFi remains on when the screen is off , and I do get push notifications from various things ( in fact , as I was typing this I got one from Ambiance ) . If you go out of range of known networks and " Ask to join networks " is turned on in the WiFi settings , you of course wo n't get push notifications unless you turn the screen on and accept an open network . The Apple <URL> has a little more information , including how to control on a per-application basis what push notifications will work .
Tap and hold the language key ( the one that looks like a globe or possibly an Emoji smile face ) and set the toggle for " Predictive " to off .
Import/Export works differently in Xcode 5 + . <URL> shows you how to do it . Your account is shown under Xcode → Preferences → Accounts , and can be exported by clicking the gear icon ( ) in the lower-left .
I 've needed to goto my Google Contacts and add the person to the built-in " My Contacts " group . I have n't found the " My Contacts " option in the preview of Google 's updated ( for 2015 ) Contacts preview . <URL>
You can not configure how fast Spotlight will index files . Normally , it should auto-throttle itself and not cause massive CPU usage ( unless fully rebuilding indexes or doing first-time indexing ) . If you run into trouble with Sophos and Spotlight , you could tell Sophos to ignore Spotlight 's metadata folder . Also , note that there a lot of grief about Sophos interfering with spotlight : <URL>
Let 's differentiate a user being one individual from a user being a single UNIX user account . As for the purpose of limiting privileges to the computer account and not for the individual operating it , creating two separate user accounts in Mac OS X is overkill and if you ask me rather impractical . Even an administrator account lacks the privileges to modify anything system critical without authenticating as the root user , which requires manually re-entering your password . The only significant extra privilege an administrator account has is the ability to switch to the root ( privileged ) account . If you are familiar with the command in the shell , this is very much the same thing . You would create a regular user account as opposed to an administrator account if you want to limit privileges of the individual operating the computer , for example with kids or employees .
The ⇥ Tab key functions as the sustain pedal in the on-screen keyboard , if you switch to the Musical Typing mode : If you must use the Keyboard mode , you can insert pedaling after the fact in the Score editor :
The application you point out is a Mac only application . That 's why it does n't work on Windows Vista . However , here 's two alternatives : <URL> which is a paid multiplatform app <URL> which is less polished and windows only , but free . You may as well be interested by <URL> which allow to browse any connected iOS device without jailbreaking them . It does the job and works on Mac OS &amp; Windows . It 's a shareware , but the demo is fully usable .
Mac OS X Hints has <URL> : To go back to pre-Lion behaviour enter the following command in Terminal : To undo this change type type the following command or zap the PRAM ( press Cmd + Opt + p + r at power up ) :
Yes , this would be known . First , the old Apple TV wo n't be getting the update ( since its now iOS based ) , and therefore wont support airplay . Not sure of any workarounds for an old Apple TV that use the actual AirPlay standard . A hack may exist after 4.2 has been out for a while , but I think most people decided to just move to the new Apple TV instead .
Download " password pilot " in Cydia ( the jailbreak app store ) it will save your password so you wont have to keep entering it .
Spelling is determined by the keyboard setting you 're using . Go to Settings > General > International > Keyboards , and make sure that English ( UK ) is added . It also helps to remove the US keyboard so that you do n't accidentally get stuck in that .
Yes Apple has released the <URL> ( see the bottom ) : iPhone 4s iPhone 5 iPhone 5c iPhone 5s iPod touch 5th generation iPad 2 iPad with Retina display ( iPad 3 ) iPad Air iPad mini iPad mini with Retina display
As answered in the comment by bispymusic , this was resolved by using a DVI - > HDMI adaptor or cable . The Mac mini was able to output a whole new set of resolutions , and jumped straight to 1080p as the most suitable . Thanks .
It sounds like you probably activated the " Application Windows " feature of Mission Control ( previously Exposé ) in an app that did n't have any windows open . It looks like this if you have no windows in that app open : The list of files are recently opened files in that application ( in this case , TextEdit ) . How you opened it depends on your particular setup . You can set a keyboard shortcut for it in System Preferences under Mission Control , but I think there are also gestures . I do n't have a Magic Mouse or Trackpad with gesture support handy , so I ca n't confirm exactly what may have activated it for you . Look through the Mouse panel in System Preferences for any reference to Exposé or " Show Application Windows " or similar for an idea of what exactly activated it .
While <URL> @ <URL> <URL> are no longer freeware , the <URL> and <URL> Dashboard widgets are free . I personally use iStat nano for my system monitoring needs . Here it is showing the temps it can read on my iMac : If you <URL> the widget , you can change the view . I usually have it running in " <URL> " mode , which shows CPU , RAM , HDD * , fan * , temperature * , network * and uptime info . * ) user-configurable , e.g. which temp sensor 's readings are displayed
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
There is a convenient way of making your Mac speak any selected text . Open System Preferences . Select Speech . Select the Text to Speech tab if it is not already selected . Check the box for Speak selected text when the key is pressed and provide a key combination of your choice . You can now use the key combination to speak selected text system-wide .
end question
start question
How can I crop a video ?
Aha , in <URL> if you select Export as mp4 , there is a crop checkbox and some textfields where you can type in the number of pixels to be cropped .
Once the folder created ( with the name Utility ) you click ( once ) on the folder to open it , once opened the name of the folder appears in bold + the different apps inside that folder . To change the name , click on the name ( shown inside the folder ) to change it .
Since <URL> you could use a cronjob to just clear the file every now and then . For that you will need the Terminal . If you are not familiar , <URL> . Use the following command to open the crontab file ( just call if you want to use vim instead ) : Insert the following and save the file ( with Ctrl-X - > y - > enter ) . You must change the file to the log file Let me explain : means that on every full hour the command will be executed ( unless it 's turned off of course ) . See <URL> for more info . The command being executed is basically saying " redirect nothing to the file " effectively truncating it to 0 bytes . You may recognize it from . FYI : The cron daemon will automatically be started by launchd if a cronfile exists .
Just FYI , I bit the bullet and went with Final Cut Pro X in the end .
Yes you can do it using an Active HDMI to MiniDisplay port adaptor like <URL> but as you can see it 's not cheap
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
Looks like VLC Player is the best option for you right now in regards to subtitles on iOS devices . The site <URL> states : " VLC also includes support for subtitles . Some video formats natively support subtitles while for others , you need a separate . sub file . If you need to add a separate . sub file , name it similar to the video filename , and add it to VLC for iOS via any of the file transfer means described above . VLC will automatically associate the two and show you subtitles . " VLC , on Mac , Windows , and iOS , is as flexible as it gets when it comes to video players , so you ca n't go wrong with it . It also allows you to wirelessly transfer video from your PC to the app , allowing you to bi-pass iTunes and WMA , which is always a plus ;) . Hope that helps !
There are some good tutorials on this on Youtube <URL> and <URL> . The problem in both of these examples is the obvious lines where you can see the contrast and lightness changes . However if you had either Adobe Premiere Elements or Adobe After effects this effect is a lot easier , and more professional <URL> you can find those tutorials <URL> and <URL> Have a rummage around the <URL> for good tutorials
Take a look at <URL> . I love it . Not only does it remember video location , but also has seamless fast-forward to the next episode of a season .
One possible solution would be to use a locked <URL> - clear , much tougher to break and with a headphone jack pass through .
Yes . You just need the right video and audio adapters . Apple sells two adapters to connect your MacBook 's Mini DisplayPort to <URL> or <URL> . Neither of those will include audio , so you 'll also need to get audio cables . Your TV likely includes either optical or composite ( RCA ) jacks for one or more of your DVI or VGA connections . For HDMI , you 'll need a third-party adapter like <URL> . Note that this one does not carry audio either . The most recent 13 " MBP does put audio out over that port , but I 'm not aware of any adapters that can use the audio yet . That same site also sells third-party VGA and DVI adapters that are much cheaper than Apple 's . I ca n't vouch for the quality of the third-party adapters , but I buy most of my cables there , and I 've always had good results .
You need to set the right permissions . Go into Terminal and enter the following commands : You might need to restart the computer to take effect . You also need to be admin ( a sudoer ) to perform these commands I should mention that you need to have copied from the . dmg file for Wireshark into the folder as described in the ' Read me first ' document . is a file located in the Utilities folder in the . dmg
When duplicating a photo within the Photos app , you are now given the option of duplicating as Still Photo . On your Mac , right-click the Live Photo , then Duplicate 1 Photo . On iOS , open the Share Sheet from your Live Photo , then tap Duplicate . The option to Duplicate as Still Photo will appear . Select that , then delete the original to drop the video portion from a Live Photo . You can actually select multiple Live Photos and process them as a batch this way .
There are a lot of applications doing this job : <URL> ( 1 $ ) , <URL> ( 4 $ ) , and a free <URL> , but it requires your iPad to be <URL> . Sorry , did n't found anything that would be free and , ehm , completely legal .
One solution is to use virtualization to have another instance of Mac OS X running on your computer . Many virtualization applications ( such as <URL> ) let you decide how much resources an instance can have ( e.g. memory or cpu ) . Lion <URL> Mac OS X . If you do decide to go with Parallels , there 's a <URL> describing how to set up an instance of another Mac OS X Lion .
The cheapest option is to use <URL> to assemble the individual clips and mix them down . It is not designed like iMovie or Final Cut Express with shortcuts and ready build transitions , but it is free with Xcode 3 . You have to <URL> restrictions before downloading Xcode 3 . You want the free program at the bottom of the page . A more expensive solution would be something like <URL> where you could make several self contained movies and then play them back for recording on the screen . By arranging and synchronizing multiple quicktime windows on your desktop you could record what you see on your screen . I have seen amazing works that were recorded as a screen capture . It 's also not ideal , but if you are good , you can do wonders . Quicktime has free screen recording as well , but ScreenFlow makes it easier to crop out parts of the screen , catch the audio and automate moves and edit . Lastly , Final Cut Express is the best tool and it sells for under $ 200 US . It is the same engine as Final Cut Pro , but lacks all the other tools like Motion and Color that assist in cinema quality effects and editing . Only you can know your budget and how much your time is worth . Start free and only pay for software when your time is worth more to you than the cost of the tools .
<URL> ( US$ 15 ) turns a ( Lion or above ) Mac into an AirPlay receiver that can handle mirroring . Once you 've got the mirrored display on a Mac , all you need is to capture that video , which is easy . For example : Start Reflection on the Mac . Turn mirroring on ( requires iPad 2 or newer or iPhone 4S or newer ) , selecting the Mac as the target . Use a video screen capture program ( Quicktime Player can do this , but there are lots of more advanced ones if you need more ) to record the Reflection window . No jailbreaking is required . <URL> ( also US$ 15 ) is another application that offers essentially the same functionality as Reflection ( and was released slightly afterwards ) , but is also available for Windows , if you do n't have a Mac to do the recording on .
HandBrake used to be my go-to app for this task but lets face it : nightmare UI . Especially if you 're a professed " non-technical guy " . The new wonder-in-a-box video convert is <URL> . Like HandBrake , it 's free . Unlike HandBrake the UI is very non-threatening . Drop file , pick output format , go . Works for video and audio .
The recording is HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second with audio - but since both the audio and video are compressed using lossy algorithms , you might sometimes get significantly storage depending on the source . In practice the <URL> with the same HD ( 720p ) up to 30 frames per second - but the few recording I 've seen from the iPod touch have data rates about half as high ( which use about half the space ) . My iPhone usually records between 2 and 10 Mbit/s . The lower end is for static , mostly black images and if things are moving or detailed , you get to the higher end of the range pretty easily . You can make some test recordings and open them in QuickTime Player where the inspector window will show you the details for the video you are shooting . A little pen and paper or a spreadsheet will convince you of how much time you can expect to capture before your device runs out of space .
Try the following steps : 1 : Start the video from YouTube whilst in Safari . 2 : Hit Home key once . You 'll exit Safari and playback will stop . 3 : Double-tap Home key to bring up the app-switcher . Slide to the right to bring up background audio controls . The icon on the right side will show whichever program you last used with background audio : Safari . 4 : Press Play . Youtube audio will resume playback .
end question
start question
How to prevent Option + Command + Space from opening " Searching This Mac " ?
Yes . Go to System Preferences → Spotlight and uncheck the box for the Spotlight window keyboard shortcut . Alternatively , replace the shortcut with a different shortcut . You can also enable/disable/modify the shortcut through System Preferences → Keyboard → Spotlight → Show Spotlight Window :
<URL> prevents your Mac from falling asleep . Maybe , it can help you out with your issue too . The sleep is n't at all random , but in fact is set in the Energy Saver system preference as well from the terminal using . You could use to inspect and change the sleep settings if you have admin rights on the remote .
The cheapest option is to use <URL> to assemble the individual clips and mix them down . It is not designed like iMovie or Final Cut Express with shortcuts and ready build transitions , but it is free with Xcode 3 . You have to <URL> restrictions before downloading Xcode 3 . You want the free program at the bottom of the page . A more expensive solution would be something like <URL> where you could make several self contained movies and then play them back for recording on the screen . By arranging and synchronizing multiple quicktime windows on your desktop you could record what you see on your screen . I have seen amazing works that were recorded as a screen capture . It 's also not ideal , but if you are good , you can do wonders . Quicktime has free screen recording as well , but ScreenFlow makes it easier to crop out parts of the screen , catch the audio and automate moves and edit . Lastly , Final Cut Express is the best tool and it sells for under $ 200 US . It is the same engine as Final Cut Pro , but lacks all the other tools like Motion and Color that assist in cinema quality effects and editing . Only you can know your budget and how much your time is worth . Start free and only pay for software when your time is worth more to you than the cost of the tools .
In Mountain Lion you can use the command . will prevent idle sleep for 1000 seconds .
I guess it depends more on your creativity than on the tools you use . You could do it all with your webcam using Photo Booth , in one take , but then you would n't be able to overlay multiple tracks and the audio/video quality would be bad . The basic gist of it is : first you have to create a basic track , probably with some kind of metronome , so you can use it as a base for the instruments and vocals ( note they always have headphones while recording , so they can listen to the base track ) . Then , for each instrument , set up a camera to capture the video and a quality microphone to record audio . You can mix the audio together in GarageBand , and then sync the audio with the video you recorded at the same time using iMovie . It 's a lot of work and can take a long time , but there 's no " secret " to it . If you want more " pro " tools you could use Logic Studio for audio and Final Cut for video . But for simple videos , I guess it would be overkill .
Download and install the excellent <URL> , which -- amongst other things -- lets you declare the default handler for fmp7 : / / URLs .
Automatically Added Keys There are three ways SSH keys are added to ssh-agent in Snow Leopard . manually , with ssh-add , automatically , by ssh when you supply a key 's passphrase via the GUI prompt , and automatically , by ssh-agent when it first starts . The last two methods are Apple extensions : there are no " automatic " additions with stock OpenSSH . All references to ssh , ssh-agent , and ssh-add below are to Apple 's Snow Leopard versions unless I prefix the program name with the adjective " stock " . You can disable all of Apple 's keychain-oriented SSH modifications with a ( undocumented ? ) preference setting : Keys Added Automatically By ssh ( This is the part I missed in the previous version of my original answer since I usually use a " stock " ssh . ) Whenever ssh tries to use a passphrase protected SSH key to authenticate itself to a remote host , it will issue a GUI prompt for the SSH key 's password . The key is also loaded into the agent ( if the passphrase is correct ) whether or not you mark the " Remember password in my keychain " checkbox . There are two ( undocumented ? ) ways to prevent ssh from issuing this GUI prompt ( and thus adding the SSH key to the ssh-agent ) : A preference setting : An <URL> entry ( or option to ssh ) that specifies . ( see in <URL> ; the parameter comes from the configuration setting ) When is disabled , ssh will prompt you in the normal way for the key 's password ( i.e. through the tty ) . You could also avoid automatic adds from ssh by using a " stock " ssh ( e.g. OpenSSH compiled by <URL> , <URL> " duplicates " from <URL> , or <URL> ) . Keys Added Automatically By ssh-agent The keys that ssh-agent automatically adds are those that have their passphrases stored in a keychain . These " remembered keys " are automatically added when a new ssh-agent starts . There is no command line or configuration option ( other than , described above ) to prevent ssh-agent from automatically loading the " remembered keys " ( see the call to ( defined in <URL> ) from in <URL> ) . If , however , you can arrange to lock the keychains that store your SSH key passphrases , you can click Cancel when ssh-agent asks to unlock the keychain ( s ) and effectively get ssh-agent to skip adding these " remembered keys " when it first starts . If there is no ssh-agent running , your first use of ssh will likely trigger launchd to start an ssh-agent which will load all the " remembered keys " . This makes it seem like ssh is loading the keys into the agent , but it is really the agent itself that is loading the keys . It only does this automatically when it first starts . The option of ssh-add provides a manual way to add the " remembered keys " ( see in <URL> which ends up as a message to the agent which calls from in <URL> ) . launchd Configuration You are right that a system update could overwrite your modification to the file in . You should always avoid changing things under ; most things can be ( re ) configured without making changes there . In this case , it looks like you should be able to override the system default launchd job specification on a per-user basis with a file in . From what I can tell1 , entries are loaded in this order2 : ( not present on most systems ) It does not seem to be documented , but only the first job configuration for each Label ( e.g. ) will be kept . Any configuration from a later directory with the same Label as a configuration from an earlier directory is effectively skipped . 1 See used in <URL> and defined in <URL> / <URL> . 2 launchd also looks in the directories next to the various directories for other types of jobs .
The only way I have found to eliminate the " other " space on in iPhone is to do a full restore , which wipes the device , reinstalls iOS , and then allows you to restore from backup . Just click ' Restore ' in iTunes : <URL>
From the Terminal app you can use the program ( secure remove ) . Simply start Terminal , then type : For more info , take a look at the <URL> . Excerpt : srm removes each specified file by overwriting , renaming , and truncating it before unlinking . This prevents other people from undeleting or recovering any information about the file from the command line .
The folder to open is controlled in a special field in the filesystem header . You can change this entry using the command as described <URL> . To review the current settings , use the following command : You can change which folder of the mounted volume is opened in Finder on mount : You can reset the information completely as well : Note that using these commands make the volume unbootable , so be careful if you need this . Of course , they also do not work for volumes with a read-only filesystem/medium , such as a CD/DVD .
Apple uses the following hostnames for distributing OTA updates : mesu.apple.com appldnld.apple.com Blocking access to these hostnames should prevent iOS from downloading the updates , resulting in one of the following errors , based on whether the device has knowledge of the update or not before the access is blocked : Software Update Failed : An error occurred downloading iOS 7 . Software Update Unavailable : Software Update is not available at this time . Try again later . Unable to Check for Update : An error occurred while checking for a software update . iOS devices use the following XML file to find the relevant update and download file : <URL> Blocking access just to this file should be sufficient providing that the devices have no knowledge of the update prior to your blocking .
Here is <URL> to create a ramdisk : It is actually two commands ; if you run them individually , you get : The first command creates a block storage device in RAM , and the second command formats it with the standard OS X filesystem . If you run to see how much free space is on your disks , you 'll get : Note how it shows that the RAM Disk is using 1165424 ' 512-blocks ' ( which , if you run , for human readable output , you 'll see is ' 569 Mi ' ) . So , the answer is , change the number you specify in the first command , which specified how large the disk is in 512 byte blocks . If you want 1.5 GB ( or , perhaps I should say ' <URL> ' , go as follows : To verify , I 'll run the following commands : It sounds like <URL> , but that is not the case in Snow Leopard and newer . Also , there are tools to help create RAM disks without calculating blocks yourself . I have n't used them , but here are three : <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
It sounds like you probably activated the " Application Windows " feature of Mission Control ( previously Exposé ) in an app that did n't have any windows open . It looks like this if you have no windows in that app open : The list of files are recently opened files in that application ( in this case , TextEdit ) . How you opened it depends on your particular setup . You can set a keyboard shortcut for it in System Preferences under Mission Control , but I think there are also gestures . I do n't have a Magic Mouse or Trackpad with gesture support handy , so I ca n't confirm exactly what may have activated it for you . Look through the Mouse panel in System Preferences for any reference to Exposé or " Show Application Windows " or similar for an idea of what exactly activated it .
You ca n't at least for now , hope Apple adds more functionality to Mission Control . Although you can move all windows of a particular app between spaces ...
I love the setting where you can only sync songs with the checkbox to one or more iOS devices . Simple deselect the songs by plalist , genre , or as you find them and even if they are in a playlist or genius mix that would normally install the song on your device during a sync , iTunes will suppress those songs that are not check marked .
Your Mac will only automatically join Wi-Fi networks which are in its preferred networks list . If the non-secure network is not in that list , it will not join it . If you want to be prompted to join a network when no " known " network is available , turn on " Ask to join new networks . " However , if you do not turn on " Ask to join new networks " then your Mac will not automatically join the non-secure networks , it will simply stay disconnected without prompting you . So there is no need to ' blacklist ' a network because it will not join it unless you tell it to join it . Unfortunately there is also no way to tell your MacBook not to present it as an option . The best you can do is require an administrator password before it can be joined :
For Textmate there is a command line tool , <URL> , that can be installed . Once installed you just use to open that file in text mate . For application that do n't have a command line tool , you can use the command with the flag and the name of the application . i.e. . This also works for TextMate : The executable file is located in the app 's Contents/MacOS subfolder , so for TextMate 2 , it would be : But if you run it from the command line like that , it will hang the shell until the application is quit ( on certain older OSs ; this was resolved as of 10.8 ) If this happens to you , put an at the end of the command to background the process . Such as : The problem with this is that if the shell exits ( by quitting Terminal or closing the window ) then TextMate is terminated without warning .
It 's quite hard and you might need to delete the mail and measure the space freed since iOS is n't showing Mail usage like it does for other apps . In theory , you should be able to Open the Settings app and presumably : Select General . Select Usage . Wait for the Storage pane to calculate the current allocation and you will see sorted from most space to least , the combined application and application data usage for each app . If Mail is n't on the list , scroll the content up and tap the " show all " entry below the initial list of apps using the most storage space on iOS . As things stand , you will not get Mail as an entry in this list ( and might spend several minutes looking for a smallish blue icon among a list of hundreds of apps ) . My theory is that Apple has implemented code to prune mail storage gradually as your available space becomes low . That would mean that all Mail on iOS is a temporary cache and just like Safari pages held in cache . If all Mail storage is simply an offline cache and not something you can depend on being on the device if you download a large game or take video and otherwise use up your storage , one viewpoint might be that the correct action is to not show the size of this cache no matter how large or small since when push comes to shove , no mail will be retained on the device if space gets low . At best , you might need to actually save a snapshot of your usage and then delete the accounts for Mail from your device and then calculate the difference by assuming all the space freed was due to Mail storage caches .
To turn off iCloud Music Library on your mac , you need to go to : iTunes > Preferences > iCloud Music Library
This might not have quite the effect you want , but it 's as close as I know how to do .
end question
start question
How to download pre-built binaries from MacPorts without installing ?
<URL> says MacPorts can pre-compile ports into binaries so applications need not be compiled when installing on a target system . MacPorts may create two types of binaries : archives and packages . However I found issues with the pkgs a few years ago which might have been fixed and the following ois more how I view macports . If macports does have a binary package which it does in most cases then it behaves exactly as a package install including man pages . The only difference is that you need the command line compiler and the macports sources ( not the sources of the packages ) installed and that the code is in / opt/local . Also due to shared libraries you ca n't just take an executable and run it it probably depends on other shared libraries which macports also provides . As for centralisation you could easily install on one machine and then rsyuc or rdist to all the others ( or other OSX replication mechanisms ) or as macports pointed out set up a local repo .
You can use wget like this : - r to recursively download all files below the level of the URL specified - nd to not create a hierarchy of directories in your download location ( not necessary ) - A to specify the files you want to download ( all files ending in . mp3 in your case ) You can obtain wget for OSX via homebrew or macports .
Synced Photos deleting must be done through iTunes . To do so just : In iTunes select the device icon in the Devices List on the left . Click the Photos tab in the resulting window . Choose Sync photos from , being iPhoto or Aperture on a Mac and Photoshop Album or Photoshop Elements on a Windows PC . Choose Select Albums and deselect the albums or collections you want to delete . Click Apply .
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
No , <URL> is software and therefore should not affect the hardware warranty . However , if you 're concerned about that and want to avoid trouble ( there 's always the odd <URL> , even at Apple ) , you can simply wipe your drive and do a clean OS X reinstall before you send your machine in for service ( and restore from backup once you get it back ) . rEFIt does not modify your EFI or anything else , so there 'll be no trace left of it if you do so .
I use the <URL> for this , which has a host of other useful features , too .
Yes , It is possible to download the Bootcamp drivers outside of the Bootcamp tool : UPDATE : Apple have published a table of ' which download you need for which model ' at <URL> For WinXP , see robmathers ' answer . The hard way , taken from <URL> is , I think , no longer needed . Download from Apple the <URL> file . Do n't double-click it . Open the index-lion-snowleopard-leopard . merged-1 . sucatalog file in a text editor or word processor . Search for each occurrence -- as at August 2012 there were 6 -- of BootCampESD.pkg . For instance , the one I needed is <URL> Notice in each such URL , the / 041-2011 / or similar / 041-XXXXX / bit of it . Below each such occurrence , notice the URL for a file with the same 041-XXXXX in it and ending in English.dist , e.g. 041-2011 . English.dist Paste the URL for each such English.dist file into your browser and open that url . Here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Search for the Model Identifier for your Mac . For instance MacBookPro5 ,2 or Macmini4 ,1 . For instance the 041-2011 file contains these models : MacBook2 ,1 MacBook3 ,1 MacBook4 ,1 MacBook5 ,1 MacBook5 ,2 MacBook5 ,3 MacBook6 ,1 MacBook7 ,1 MacBookAir1 ,1 MacBookAir2 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,1 MacBookAir3 ,2 MacBookPro2 ,1 MacBookPro2 ,2 MacBookPro3 ,1 MacBookPro4 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,1 MacBookPro5 ,2 MacBookPro5 ,3 MacBookPro5 ,4 MacBookPro5 ,5 MacBookPro6 ,1 MacBookPro6 ,2 MacBookPro7 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,1 MacBookPro8 ,2 MacBookPro8 ,3 MacPro1 ,1 MacPro2 ,1 MacPro3 ,1 MacPro4 ,1 MacPro5 ,1 Macmini2 ,1 Macmini3 ,1 Macmini4 ,1 iMac5 ,1 iMac6 ,1 iMac7 ,1 iMac8 ,1 iMac9 ,1 iMac10 ,1 iMac11 ,1 iMac11 ,2 iMac11 ,3 iMac12 ,1 iMac12 ,2 How do you know your Model Identifier ? Open System Information , and look in the Hardware Overview section . i.e. click Apple menu - > About this Mac - > More Info ... - > Report - > Hardware - > and now read down the Hardware Overview looking for " Model Identifier : " Having found your 041-XXXXX number , download the BootCampESD.pkg url that has your number in it . Again , here 's a list of them : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Be patient as it 's probably 600MB . Once your pkg is downloaded , double click it and install to a folder on your hard drive so you know where to find it . The folder contains a nest of folders , the last of which contains a dmg disk image file . Double click to open . Voila . Here are your Windows installer files . Copy them to a USB drive , or a burnable CD . It 's still 660MB or more , so it 's a full CD worth of burning time . Done . You can now proceed with Boot Camp assistant Windows installation . source : <URL> . The page was aimed at people struggling with BootCamp , but either way , it gets you to the BootCamp.pkg file , which contains the drivers . You still need open the OS X installer pkg file to get the the contents out , and to open a DMG file . If you are already in Windows , 7-zip will open it : <URL>
On iOS 7 Open the Photos App and make sure you are in the " Photos " section from the three icons at the bottom of the screen ; Look at the top of the screen and make sure the view is " Moments ; " Now you can tap individual thumbnails one at a time to select them , or you can tap the word " Select " that appears at the top of each grouping to select an entire grouping . On iOS 6 Go to Settings → General → Usage → Photos &amp; Camera ; Swipe on the " Camera Roll " entry ; A " Delete " button appears . This solution does not work on iOS 7 ( last tested on iOS 7.0.4 ) . It is probably a bug . Any iOS , but using a computer If you have iOS 7 , you can use Image Capture on your Mac to delete photos from the iPhone without importing them : Plug the iPhone to your Mac with the iPhone cable ; Quit iPhoto if it launches automatically ; Launch Image Capture ; Select the photos you want to delete ; Click the red icon to delete the photos . <URL> <URL>
Macports select can change it back . The current macports does it using the port select command - older versions had python_select To see the possible pythons run From that list choose the one you want and change to it e.g.
Go to an Apple store or Apple reseller and purchase the Snow Leopard install DVD . It 's relatively inexpensive ( as far as Operating System prices are concerned ) . Here is the <URL> to the online store , where it will ship within 24 hours .
Chrome keeps the plugin in : For me current_version is 16.0.912.63 Firefox uses Adobe mainstream version of Flash player , which is installed in : The size difference is quite big ( 35MB mainstream against 16MB Chrome version ) . I actually tried to make such trick by making symbolic link to chrome version in place of mainstream version , but Firefox did n't like that ( did not show any content where flash should be ) . Looks like it 's not that simple as it is in Linux . EDIT : It turns out that it actually is that simple : Copy Chrome 's Flash plugin , to and they both work .
At one time or another I have deleted a whole bunch of the standard issue programs that I knew I would n't use . I prefer not to have them wasting my space , however little it may be . Also , I use a Mac Mini as a media centre , changing the standard hdd for an ssd , so space is at a premium . Appcleaner is one app that I have used for several years to tidy stuff up . Never had a single issue with deleting Stickies , Notes , Bootcamp Assistant , Audio Midi Setup , RAID , Podcast , etc , etc. . Appcleaner preferences should be set up to delete " protected " apps and then will delete the app and all the other files ( plists , etc. ) that go with it . Another app , CleanMyMac , does the same , but will also do a more general clearout of caches , etc. . Both recommended ... Good luck !
Alternatives for <URL> <URL> Uses OS X binary versions when available Compiles OS X optimized versions Compiling usually faster than with MacPorts Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Tries to separate already installed software from what is installed through ... ... while taking advantage of already installed software and libraries ( e.g. does n't install a working version of Perl twice ) Installing software does n't need root access Actively developed on <URL> <URL> Uses Debian tools like and Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Can be used to install precompiled packages or to compile everything from the source Has a separate directory tree to avoid interference with the system <URL> Last version 2010-04-10 <URL> Has GUI Nothing new on the website since 2008
<URL> will allow you to delete any app from your Launchpad . Just open it , select the app you want to delete and press ⌘ ⌫ .
Every version of Mac OS X has QuickTime . QuickTime Pro is/was an optional paid extra , which included extra codecs and additional functionality . The situation with " classic " Mac OS was rather more complicated , but I 'm guessing you only care about OS X.
Apps can run from anywhere , so if you do n't want to authenticate as an admin user , you 'll want to write it to / Users/Shared or ~ and expand your path to accommodate wherever you chose to land the package . If you 're working in a lab situation , you can make a USB drive called dev and a folder named bin to contain gcc would require something like this for the default bash shell :
The only way to obtain Mavericks legally is through the App Store , sorry .
Fink is a binary distribution using tools that originated from Debian ( e.g. , apt-get , etc. ) Macports is built around the philosophy used by the FreeBSD ports collection . In this you download tarballs directly from the upstream source , apply patches and compile . It 's entirely automated . I have n't used Fink in quite a while ( since Panther ) because it did n't seem very well done to me .
Uncheck the , " Open " safe " files after downloading " checkbox in Safari 's General preferences .
While KeithB 's answer is correct , actually , <URL> in favor of the <URL> . Commands to be run via are described in Apple " plists " , or property lists , which are really just XML files : Having said that , it 's not a very user friendly ( nor Mac-like ) way of scheduling commands to be run . <URL> lists a few GUI alternatives , including : <URL> ( http://sourceforge.net/projects/lingon/ ) ( Free , may not work on 10.6 ) <URL> ( http://www.peterborgapps.com/lingon/ ) ( Not free , works on 10.6 ) <URL> ( $ 5 Shareware )
end question
start question
Is it possible to remove all installed terminal applications and extensions back to native without doing a clean OSX install ?
Firstly , you should be sure why you would like to do this and what a fresh environment would provide . This is going to be a bit tedious to do since you have multiple sources for the installs . For homebrew , follow the steps in <URL> . For MacPorts , follow the steps from the <URL> page . For PHP and Apache , it may not be simple to revert them to what the OS came with if you installed these outside of solutions like homebrew , MacPorts , MAMP or XAMPP . The non-tedious way , which may take longer to complete , is to Clone your drive ( using a tool like <URL> or <URL> or <URL> ) . Reinstall the OS afresh . Then use Migration Assistant to bring everything over from the clone . You would have to uncheck the " Other files and folders on ... " option in Migration Assistant to prevent it from bringing back the locations that homebrew , MacPorts , etc. , use . This method would also skip many files ( like in / Users/Shared ) that you would have to copy over manually from the backup .
It 's possible , but very impractical for several reasons . Ubuntu is built for Intel x86/x64 officially , and unofficially for the PowerPC ( old Macs and the PS3 ) . iPod/iPhone/iPad is built off the ARM architecture , meaning you 'd need to do a full rebuild of every single package . You 'd have to exploit the phone to load Ubuntu on to it , and use an exploited bootloader to load anything but a signed iOS . You 'd have to write custom drivers for everything you expected to work , such as the webcam , virtual keyboard , etc. . I 'd look into the progress of Android on iPhone . Last I know , Froyo was running alright on an iPhone 3G . Since the full chain of trust has been compromised on all devices except the Verizon iPhone and the iPad 2 , it 's possible , but the Android port is suffering all the issues I listed above . Edit : Ubuntu will also expect much more RAM and a much faster processor than the older iDevices have , but the newer devices are more up to par .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
I have found ironicly that using a Microfiber cloth does the job and also cleans the microfiber inside part of the cover . I find that when you use it as a stand the inside of the cover collects anything you are standing it on and will the put this dust/debris onto the screen when its closed . To add to this looking at the <URL> , the microfiber lining is the same colour as the polyurethane , yet the actual product is grey ( just like in the video on the same page ) .
Open in the Finder Press Cmd-A followed by Cmd-C Switch to Pages/Word/TextEdit / etc. . Create a new document and press Cmd-V Repeat for sub-folders of / Applications and any other place ( ~ / Applications maybe ) where you have installed applications .
I use Hazel with an applescript to keep my filename extensions hidden . Hazel is just a way to make sure that anytime I create a new file , the applescript gets run on it . The applescript is pretty easy -- you can see all three lines of it in the screenshot below . I also like to set the color labels by file type , thus the selection of only PDFs and the red color labels . You can skip both of those if you like . Just to be clear , you do n't need to use Hazel . You could use folder actions or an automator workflow to initiate the applescript on the files you want to change .
The only thing you can do is to copy a cell without borders over the one that has . If you type the info in first at least you do n't have to remember it .
It is not possible to install Siri . The iPhone 4S is the only iPhone that includes this system-wide functionality . You may have read about the Siri app , which is what the Siri team originally developed before their company was acquired by Apple . This app was available for older iPhohe models . However , when the iPhone 4S was released , the Siri app was discontinued . Hope this helps .
You could install Bluestacks on your Mac and then install the Android version which you could access through BlueStacks . Here 's <URL> .
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
No . You need to be a registered developer agreeing to the license agreements AND your device needs to be registered as a development device . As always , there are ways around this , but that is illegal . Torrent sites sometimes offer the software and in the comments developers offer to register your device as a development device . But these developers are at risk to lose their own development access . Furthermore the first betas tend to be buggy . Unless you have an obsessive need for the latest stuff or are a developer you do n't actually want it on your phone .
Well , here are a few things : 1 ) That OS X installation disk ( 10.6 ) , will only install Snow Leopard for your 2009 MBP You can not use that disk for OS X installs on other machines 2 ) Generally , the applications disk is nearly useless . Your milage may vary , but I 've never , ever used them . 3 ) Obviously your external drive ( USB you say ? ) will have to have enough space to boot the installation process . I 'd recommend 8 + GB if you will actually use this thing . However , you will only need a usb drive as large as the disk image file that we will create later on . So , lets get started . There are probably guides out there that have more comprehensive answers than this , but I digress . You need to use Disk Utility for the following steps . It should be in your Utilities folder . Put the OS X install disk into your Macbook , while your USB drive is also in the computer . Wipe your USB drive , and reformat it as Mac OS Journaled Create a disk image of the CD , saving it to your computer 's hard drive . Once you have created the disk image , it should be on the left pane of the Disk Utility window . Click on it , then select the ' Restore ' tab to the right . You will want the Source to be the disk image file ( the OS X install disk ) , and the Target to be the USB drive . Let me know how it goes ! Charlie
Yes , I was able to update from 10.7.3 to 10.8 without running software updates ( 10.7.4 ) and Mountain Lion runs great .
No you can not remove Bonjour from MacOS X . There is no real good reason to do so anyway . Also the " problem " you link to describes an issue with Bonjour installed on Windows 7 , so it does not apply to you .
You could do a clean install youself after formatting the disk . You will end up with exact the same result after doing this . Why the format , you ask ? You wo n't have any Mountain Lion files on your system . Returning to the place you bought it from is as easy , you say ? Returning the device to the store does not make any difference except spending ( more ) time and probably pay gas for the car . If you let them do the update , they will just click the icon in the AppStore resulting in the same result as doing it yourself . ( This does not count for an official Apple Retail Store , but it does ( at least in my country ) for the premium resellers ) Official Apple Retail Store If you have an official Apple Store , it comes as free service to get the OS X re-installed . The only difference that would really help you out is getting a newer replacement from the store , with Mavericks pre-installed . I doubt they will replace it as the device is n't broken and can not be returned for RMA .
There is an app called Better Touch Tool . You can download it at their <URL> . First , you hide preview if there is any , and then select Trackpad on the top screen . Before you start adding gestures , make sure to allow it to control computer in System Preferences > Accessibility As you can see , I already set up the swipe up and down gestures . Below , you can select which gesture will it be ( in this case , 3 finger swipe up and down ) . And under Predefined Action , you can search Mission control .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
Is this on your Macbook Pro ? If so the disks should work both legally and pragmatically . You would n't need to use bootcamp though , since bootcamp is designed jsut for windows . Nevertheless its pretty easy . Here are the basic steps I would follow : Insert your install DVD . Shutdown your computer . Start your computer pressing the C key to boot from the DVD . Once in the instalation assistant , go to Disk Utility under Utilities > Disk Utility . Select your disk . Select the Partition tab and click on the " + " to add a new one . Call it whatever you please and add at least 10GB of disk space ( enough to install Snow Leopard ) and make sure its in Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) . Apply the settings . Go through the installer like you normally would , though when it asks you were to install tell it you want to Snow Leopard to be on your new partition . This should let you boot on Snow Leopard by pressing the opt/alt key just like when you boot Windows . Hope it helps ! Any other thing you need fear not comment .
There was an emulation layer called <URL> to allow Intel Macs to run PowerPC applications that Apple provided from Mac OS X 10.4 to 10.6 . Sadly , they removed it in 10.7 Lion and it no longer works . Given that you said your iMac is brand new , it presumably came with Lion preinstalled , and is unable to run anything older . So , unfortunately , the answer is no . Your options are to upgrade your Adobe software to an Intel version , trade in your new Mac for a slightly older used Mac ( from early 2011 or earlier ) and put Snow Leopard on it , or continue to use your old hardware for your Adobe software .
Cydia > Sections > Edit Turn the toggle to " Off " next to the " Theme " sections .
end question
start question
Why I ca n't get out of EFI firmware update 2.7 on my MacBook Pro ?
UPDATE : The problem was due to broken filesystem permissions which were preventing the system from applying the update . Once the permissions have been fixed using Disk Utility , the update took place like a sweet .
160 degrees Fahrenheit , if it is CPU temperature , is normal for MBP . MBPs are designed to run pretty hot , with the aluminum case as the main heatsink the casing gets uncomfortably hot sometimes . If you want to remedy the problem : use a laptop stand ( I use Belkin Cushtops , they are really comfortable ) , put your laptop on steady , heat-transducing surface ( human skin , blankets or soft chairs are bad -- wooden/plastic/metallic tables are good ) , open up the casing and clean the dust ( can make it ~ 10 degrees Celcius cooler ) or , use less video - or CPU-intensive application =)
Nope . The glowing Apple on your MacBook Pro is actually illuminated by the backlight of your screen as well . So you ca n't turn it off as long as you have your screen lighted on . Your best bet is probably to put a sticker on it .
See <URL> . This link suggests that you should fully discharge and recharge the battery at least once a month . I did not see this on that page , but I read somewhere that it is ok to leave a mac plugged in for an extended time , so just make sure you exercise the battery and let it completely discharge every once in a while .
I have read it somewhere before ( <URL> ) that on some heavy loads ( especially GPU loads ) , 2011 MacBook Pro charger may not supply enough charge . There are no official confirmations , though , as far as I know . Please check , however , that the " 0:09 " minutes are referred to the remaining time and not the " remaining time until fully charged " . I suppose it is the latter . I may also point out ( but only as a last thought ) that if you keep your Mac always under charge , the battery may stop charging at certain times to preserve lifetime .
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
If you want a cheaper alternative to running two <URL> , you can add a second monitor ( in addition to one off the mini-Displayport ) try a USB <URL> adapter , <URL> from <URL> ( there are other brands , any one using the Displaylink technology should work ) . The performance wo n't be as good , but as long as you 're not doing anything involving lots of 3D , it should be acceptable .
You ca n't consolidate them , but you can delete them . Just right click and click " Delete " .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
I do not believe that Mavericks shipped with a 32-bit version . You are probably running 64-bit OS X. All of the Core i3 , i5 , and i7 Mac computers have 64-bit processors . <URL> To determine if you are running a 32-bit or 64-bit version of OS X , open a Terminal and type : On a 64-bit OS , the output will end with . On a 32-bit OS , the output will end with . <URL>
Mac OS X Hints has <URL> : To go back to pre-Lion behaviour enter the following command in Terminal : To undo this change type type the following command or zap the PRAM ( press Cmd + Opt + p + r at power up ) :
The fan speedup happens because normally the fan speeds are controlled dynamically in response to CPU temperature by the firmware ( and as the CPUs are typically underutilized , there is rarely or never any need to run the fans at anything like the maximum speed ) . However , when the firmware is being updated , that dynamic temperature control is not possible - for safety the speed is just set to the maximum and left there until the update is complete . This is true for all systems ( even PCs - you will often notice a high fan speed for a moment when booting them as well ) So the real question is why is the difference between normal and maximum fan speeds is so great in the laptop ( MacBook ) systems as opposed to Mac desktop/tower/mini systems - and the answer to that is simply that the laptop hardware has much smaller clearances and therefore poor airflow without fans running . So for safety and increased CPU speeds on laptop systems , more powerful ( louder , faster ) fans are needed ( although they will eat your battery , as much or more than the increased CPU power consumption itself when the CPUs are fully utilized ) .
If you wanted to connect to two different networks you could use this . So say you had an internal network which you had your own computers all linked to but were not connected to the internet , you could use one port to connect to this network . Then you could connect the other port to a broadband router/modem and access the internet on your Mac Pro . It 's really more of an interest to businesses than domestic users . You could also use the second port to connect to Network Attached Storage ( NAS ) such as a MyBook World or similar . This would allow you to use the full bandwidth of one port for backups to disk while not affecting the speed on the other network . Backup interface in case one fails . You could have each interface connect to different switches on your network in case of a failure on one you still have access to the network on the other . There 's also something called <URL> which allows you to combine the ports to act as one port with twice the speed . However , this depends on your other network equipment supporting this mode .
Amazon Fire TV requires a TV with an HDMI input channel to display video , something MacBooks ( or pretty much any computer ) are lacking . So no , this will not work ( it wo n't work with an Apple TV/MacBook combination either ) .
Try using <URL> to detect and identify neighboring and overlapping wireless access points ( WAPs ) . It 's likely an interference issue that can be solved with vigilance . You need to find out what channels your neighbor 's WAPs are using , and then switch your router to use the least crowded channel you can find . Ideally you want to use channels 1 , 6 , or 11 . These are the channels that have the most leeway when it comes to other channels interfering with their signal . Wifi devices operating on a particular channel can interfere with other devices operating on channels up to 5 steps away . The amount of interference grows logarithmically with signal strength and channel proximity . For example , if you are using channel 1 and your nearest neighboring wireless network is also using channel 1 , you are receiving a large amount of interference . If you are on 1 and the other network is on 6 , the interference is negligible . However , if you are on channel 1 and your neighbor is using channel 3 , you are likely still on the receiving end of a huge amount of interference depending on their WAPs signal strength . iStumbler will give you information about the signal strengths emanating from the other interfering WAPs , and from there you can infer the best channel to use . You may need to periodically perform the same task as your neighbors change their wifi channels .
iCloud Photo Library is available starting 2015 on OS X Until now , you have the chance to sync between iOS devices running both iOS 8 and have Photo Library activated . activate Photo stream and see your photos in iPhoto iCloud Photo Library is still Beta , and will come to the Mac in 2015 , and to the icloud.com as well .
It appears the router does n't support Bonjour at all ( and Belkin support were totally clueless when approached about it ) , so I 've returned it for a refund and am on the hunt for one that plays nicely with Macs .
You are right lots of myths . and more info <URL> " kb/ht1446 " Apple Portables : <URL> The battery has an internal microprocessor that provides an estimate of the amount of energy in the battery as it charges and discharges . The battery needs to be recalibrated from time to time to keep the onscreen battery time and percent display accurate and to keep the battery operating at maximum efficiency . You should perform this procedure when you first use your computer and then every few months after that . If you normally leave your Apple portable computer connected to AC power and very rarely use it on battery power you may want to perform this process once a month . Portables with built-in batteries ( aka MacBook Air ) Current Apple portable computer batteries are pre-calibrated and do not require the calibration procedure outlined in this article . In summary : The battery has no memory effect &amp; can be charged whenever you like . You ca n't overcharge it , &amp; charging automatically stops when your battery is full . The two biggest killers of Lithium batteries are heat &amp; frequent full discharge/recharge cycles . For calibration reasons ( to make your battery status indicator accurate ) you can discard but not less than 20 % once in a few months . Best way to prolong the life is to keep it as cool as possible . That might mean do not take your lap top in your bed , do not keep it in the sun , ect .
The company should have an Apple ID set up . I would recommend that this is registered to a member of the IT team who is most responsible for software purchasing . Then they can download OS X Lion from the app store , and have the license . Is there a business requirement to be running Lion or is this user preference ?
Following @bmike 's advice I carefully studied the back cover for wear marks . Then I took a close look at the logic board without touching it . On the whole logic board you 'll find tiny elastic sticks . They can be pushed a little . These sticks hold the aluminum bottom off the logic board . If you include the parts from the RAM module there are in total 14 ( ! ) of them . I did not take any chances , therefore I applied insulating tape on every place of the aluminum bottom that the sticks can contact . Also I did not want to open the cover multiple times :) Apply the tape again as it easily wears out . Your 're done ! The Macbook Pro does not make any of the previous mechanic noises anymore . It feels like a solid aluminum brick on my lap . And a close up ... This is what the back cover looked like when I was done . Uh , it 's ugly ! I 'm glad it 's on the inside .
end question
