start question
How does fuel get to the engine during acrobatics ?
The basic problem is that no matter how the aircraft 's fuel tanks are designed , if there is an air gap in the tank , then there is an attitude and/or a g-loading that puts that air gap over the inlet to the fuel line running to the engine . There are a lot of solutions to this problem . The first is exactly as you say ; do n't sustain any maneuver that starves the fuel pump ( and by extension the engine ) for a longer period than you have fuel in the lines to feed the engine . You can actually do a lot without the fuel system seeing a single hiccup in supply ; the fuel tanks are designed to feed while under positive G-load ( otherwise you could n't get any fuel to the engine just sitting on the tarmac ) , so hard turns , rolls , loops etc that keep a force on the aircraft and its contents acting downward towards the floor of the cockpit will keep the fuel flowing into the engine . Spins and high negative-G maneuvers tend to be the things that starve the engine ; if the tanks are in the wings , a hard spin , snap roll or zero-g parabola will push the fuel out away from the inlets at the wing roots . Most fuel systems except on the lightest aircraft have at least two fuel pumps per engine ; one electric pump on the tank side to shove fuel into the line , and one crankshaft-powered pump that draws fuel out of the lines into the carb chamber or other fuel delivery system . The checklist often involves turning on the electric fuel pumps just before startup to prime the fuel lines , then turning them off once the engine is running smoothly , but you can keep the electric pump on if you plan on really twerking the aircraft in flight . The line between these two pumps actually holds a fair amount of fuel , plenty for a minute or more of sustained operation with the inlet at the tank totally starved , and coupled with a bleed valve on the engine side to release any air that 's entered the line , the two pumps running together can usually keep an uninterrupted flow of fuel into the engine by having the electric pump shove fuel down the line as fast as it can whenever the inlet is under the liquid level . For mild aerobatic maneuvers , a " flop tube " is put into the fuel tank . This is simply a flexible hose with a weight , that keeps the hose under the liquid level , no matter what forces are acting to move the mass of liquid around in the tank . This is a simple and very effective way to keep fuel flowing to the engine while the aircraft is under load in any direction , but because the flop tube requires a significant volume of fuel to sink underneath and draw from , flop tubes can increase the " unusable fuel " capacity of the aircraft ( fuel that exists in the tank , but the fuel system ca n't draw out in some normal circumstance ) . However , there 's a tradeoff ; the heavier the weight on the end of the flop tube , the more reliably it will stay under the fuel level regardless of attitude , but the more force with which it will impact the sides of the tank in violent maneuvers ( and padding the weight further increases unusable fuel ) . For the real aerobatic nuts , though , the maneuvers are so violent and so long that even a flop tube , redundant fuel pumps and bleed valves might get starved as the fuel sloshes and churns and there is n't a real " liquid level " to draw from . Many of these aircraft go one step further ; a bladder-style fuel container . Within the fuel tank is a flexible polymer vessel that actually holds the fuel ( typically in either wingtip tanks or a fuselage tank ; it 's usually impractical to try this with in-wing tanks ) . This bladder keeps the liquid and gas in the tank shell separate as the tank empties , and may also keep the fuel under some static pressure . If there 's no air to draw into the fuel lines , then no matter how the aircraft is oriented or how many Gs it 's pulling in any direction , the fuel lines ca n't be starved . Of course , the fuel lines are only one consideration . Most " normal " - rated aircraft have float-type carburetors , which hold a reservoir of fuel with another air gap , and the fuel level in the reservoir is controlled by a float that opens the inlet from the fuel pump ( this system also deals with small hiccups in the fuel flow from the tanks ; the air just forms part of the air gap and the float keeps the inlet open until fuel flows in to raise the level ) . This type of carb will starve the engine during any maneuvers involving less than 1g of force acting towards the " floor " of the float chamber , as the float will keep the inlet closed and the reservoir will starve the fuel feed tube that allows fuel to dribble into the throttle body at the throat . For aerobatics , either a diaphragm-chamber carb ( which has a flexible wall on one side of the reservoir chamber that is connected to the fuel inlet ) or a fuel injection system must be used to avoid dependence on gravity to get fuel into the engine . The downside of these systems are increased complexity , and in the case of the diaphragm-chamber carb , intolerance of air this far along t
The jury ( i.e. FAA ) is still out on this question as of early June 2014 . FAA has indicated it will not give a gasoline " fuel allowance " to be credited against weight for batteries . Given that fuel weighs 6 lbs . per gallon , or 30 lbs . for the maximum legal gas an ultralight can carry , it would be a somewhat negligible , but certainly welcome , allowance for would-be electric manufacturers . One company , Chip Erwin of AeroMarine , has imported a barebones ultralight motorglider based on the Goat towed ultralight glider . It 's called the <URL> , and carries batteries enough for 30-40 mins . of flight , without exceeding the 254-lb . weight limit of the part 103 category . In time the FAA may well decide to grant the allowance . It 's still not going to amount to much more time , maybe 10 minutes given current battery energy density , which is a fraction of the energy density of gasoline , but research into electric storage is at a feverish pace worldwide . Look for sport , then commercial electric aircraft , within the next 5 to 10 years . Several electric single and two-seat electrics are already flying . The Airbus ducted fan , recently ballyhooed as the first electric aircraft , which it certainly is n't , is a promising look at one way commercial electric applications might come to market .
There are 2 fuel pumps on the Diamond DA20 . One is electric and is controlled by the pilot and one is mechanically driven by the engine and is constantly running while the engine is running . After take off , you switch the electric one off and the mechanical one keeps supplying the engine with fuel . <URL>
The fuel consumption or fuel burn rate is dependent on the aircraft type , size , engine configuration , cruise altitude , temperature , thrust setting and other factors . In general : The larger the aircraft , the less economic do short flights become due to weight/size and fuel burn on takeoff/climb . Here are some values I found for the CRJ2 , the source may not be entire citable : Approximate total burn pounds / hour Taxi : 700 ( Both engines and APU ) Takeoff : 6000-7000 ( depending on temperature , elevation , reduced/full thrust , etc ) Climb : 6000-3500 ( reducing as as altitude increases ) Cruise : 2500-3000 ( depending on altitude/weight/etc ... subtract 500 for long range , add 500 for high speed ) Holding : 1800-2400 ( depending on altitude/speed ) Normal descent : 1500 Idle descent : 600 Approach : 2000 ( fully configured ) ( Source : <URL> - Author : Flyf15 ) You can also read the following related questions to understand how altitude affects fuel efficiency : <URL> <URL>
Yes . Human beings can get sucked into jet engines if they are close enough - this has happened multiple times in a number of aircraft ranging from <URL> to <URL> . However , it happens only in rare cases - usually in case of miscommunication or a mistake , when <URL> . The following image shows the safety hazard area for aircraft engines . <URL> A warning poster , available from Boeing , reminds ramp and maintenance workers about the dangers of engine ingestion ; image from <URL> In addition , the engines also have hazard-area warning decals on the nacelles to warn the ground personnel of the dangers . <URL> Warning signs on engines ; image from <URL> . As for the maximum weight that can be ingested , it will vary with the engines , though they have been known to ingest items from <URL> to <URL> , and of course people .
Once you 've lined up nicely on the runway , you only need the rudder pedals as they do provide enough nose gear steering for the takeoff roll even at low speed . Rudder pedal steering is available during takeoff , landing , and taxiing when small directional changes are required . Full deflection of the rudder pedals produces about 7 degrees of nose wheel steering . -- <URL> The 7 degrees figure quoted above will vary by plane . Tiller is used when tight turns are needed . Remember most airliners do n't have a tiller on the first officer 's side , yet they do takeoff without the captain steering for them . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the linked video we see the captain let go of the tiller as soon as he is lined up on the runway . Also notice the tiller move on its own afterward , which indicates that the rudder pedal [ nose wheel ] steering is being used .
Some energy from the expansion is used to turn the turbine which powers the compressor And in some engines it turns the turbine which has a large fan attached to the other end . The engine produces more power than needed to run itself . Inside the engine , everything is a very careful balance of pressures . Basically the job done by valves in a piston engine is done by careful engineering in a turbine , which is one of the reasons they cost so much . The inflow to the combustion chamber balances the outflow to the power turbine to the point where it wants to go that way - get it a little bit out of balance and you have noisy stalls like you see in the referenced video .
You keep it clean : adding flaps adds drag . You can see this in Section 3 of the Cessna POH , which includes a Maximum Glide ( distance ) diagram . In the C172S POH that I checked , it notes that maximum distance is achieved with : SPEED 68 KIAS PROPELLER WINDMILLING FLAPS UP ZERO WIND ( A tailwind would extend your range , but only in one direction . ) Two other points worth noting : If the engine failure also caused an electrical failure then you wo n't be able to use the flaps anyway ( in models with electrically operated flaps ) You might want to reduce your gliding distance if the best landing spot is relatively close by , and extending flaps is one way to do that ( along with slipping , S-turns or other maneuvers , and extending the gear )
I do n't know specifically for a CFM56 , but in general : fan blades are usually identified by a dimple on the spinner ( blade # 1 is next to the dimple and number from there ) . High pressure compressor blades can be identified by special " locking " blades , which will look different from the others . They will have screws in them to " lock " them into place . These line up with a feature on the rotor , so they are always in the same place . Locking blade will be # 1 and number from there . I 'm not sure how high pressure turbine blades are identified . LPT blades are usually identified by finding the # 1 fan blade and rotating it down to bottom dead center . Then the LPT blade at bottom dead center is considered blade # 1 .
To give a comparison with an engine at idle : On the 737 NG , the <URL> can use 240 lb/hr when under load . It is rated at 90 kVA , <URL> on each engine . The engines can use about 850 lb/hr <URL> , which from those figures is about 1/10 of fuel flow at full ( takeoff ) power . So the engines use about 4 times as much fuel ( each ) as the APU does to just provide power . Of course these values will vary based on ambient conditions and the load placed on the systems ( like the bleed air system ) . This is why if a plane has to stop away from the gate for a while , they will shut down the engines and run on the APU .
Engine failure is not that common . For a gas turbine engine , a press release by <URL> gives some data as a reference point . In 1995 they quoted various engines as having a dispatch rate of between 99.99 % and 99.89 % . That is only 0.01 to 0.11 % of flights could not depart due to an engine issue . However , that does n't identify in flight failures , best captured by the inflight shut down ( IFSD ) rate . Data on this is difficult to get for specific engines , as the OEMs consider it competitive information , so the best guide is probably as mentioned the ETOPS rating . The ETOPs fleet is <URL> as achieving a shut down rate of less than 0.01 per 1000 engine hours . Another way of defining reliability is the ( repair ) shop visit rate ( SVR ) . Figures given for this ( by GE in the same link as above ) were between 0.085 and 0.231 visits per 1000 flight hours . However , this covers both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance ( i.e. failures ) , so perhaps does n't identify what you want . For piston engines , the answer to this <URL> probably has some useful data . In addition , Continental <URL> in 2014 that they had an IFSD rate of 0.0061 per 1000 flight hours , which they claim is the most reliable piston engine in general aviation . This compares with " less than " 0.01 for gas turbines , so , it seems very similar . It maybe possible to find a better value for the IFSD rate for gas turbines . Given the rate is so low , it really needs to be quoted to more than 2 decimal places , or given per 100,000 flight hours . Ultimately , I would expect the IFSD rate for gas turbines to be lower than for piston engines , due to the huge economic incentive gas turbine manufacturers and the commercial airline industry has increasing reliability for turbofan engines , that does not exist to the same extent , for general aviation piston engines .
It 's entirely possible . Attitude control works the same way during autorotation as it does during normal powered flight . It 's a good thing , too ... during an autorotation you want to target your descent toward a suitable landing spot :-) To ( say ) roll right , moving the cyclic causes the swashplate to move in such a way that the rotor blade 's pitch ( angle of attack ) is greater during the left-side portion of the blade 's travel , and lower during the right-side portion . This produces more lift on the left side , which causes a right-rolling moment on the helicopter . The fact that the collective is all the way down and that the rotor 's RPM is being maintained by airflow through the rotor does not change the way the cyclic produces attitude changes . The anti-torque pedals still work too , although during an autorotation the pilot will promptly apply full right pedal , since lowering the collective will essentially eliminate torque from the rotor . Pedals can still be used for yaw though , as the tail rotor is still spinning ( it is linked to the main rotor ) . The " 180 ° turning autorotation " is a common maneuver taught in basic training , where the pilot must set up the autorotative descent and then complete a 180 ° turn toward a landing spot . For more information about autorotations in general , I recommend the FAA 's ( free online ) <URL> . See page 2-24 for a general description , and page 11-2 for procedures/technique . There are also lots of autorotation demonstration videos on <URL> that show maneuvering to a landing spot / 180 ° turns during the auto .
The RAT is automatically deployed on many aircraft , including the CRJ and A320 series , but it can be manually released as well . In between the loss of power and the RAT spins up you have the batteries to fall back to which are normally fully charged . The Airbus Manual has the following comment on the APU : In case of total loss of all main generators , the RAT is automatically extended and drives the emergency generator via a hydraulic motor . The EMER GEN supplies the AC ESS BUS and the DC ESS BUS via the ESS TR . The ECAM WD remains powered , with associated procedures presented . Alternate law is operative through ELAC 1 and SEC 1 ( <URL> ) While this is for the CRJ , who call it an Air Driven Generator ( ADG ) : In the event of a complete AC power failure in flight , the ADG will automatically deploy and supply emergency AC power to the ADG bus and to the AC essential bus . If the automatic deploy function fails , the ADG can be deployed manually by pulling the ADG manual release handle on the ADG CONTROL control panel at the rear of the center console . ( <URL> ) A RAT , with the spring loaded actuator visible : I think most if not all are spring loaded , and have a little help from gravity on the way . You 'll also notice that many are stored to be pushed into place by the jetstream . Have a look at this <URL> below around 0:20 . The slow upwards motion suggests that it 's having to reload the spring energy at 1:20 . The doors are attached mechanically . Taking a look at the Airbus Electrical System : <URL> As can be seen , there 's a hierarchy to electrical power use , and the battery feeds the essential busses , where the RAT deployment would be included . If I 'm not mistaken , power is very limited : You loose some of the more fancy control computers along with the non-necessary stuff , like the copilot 's displays , as can be seen in the following <URL> . Bear in mind that some aircraft , such as the 747 ( up to -400 ) , do not have a RAT on the aircraft , and rely on the windmilling engines to provide sufficient hydraulics to control the aircraft , and as such there 's no deployment of sorts necessary .
If the aircraft is cruising at FL350 it is operating in Reduced Vertical Separation Minima ( RVSM ) airspace ( between FL290 and FL410 ) . With an altimetry discrepancy between the two altimeters of more than 245ft , the aircraft is no longer RVSM approved . It shall therefore descent or climb out of the RVSM altitude block . For the Airbus A321 the operating ceiling is below FL410 , so the only option is to descent to FL280 or below . Since the fuel consumption in those altitudes is significantly higher the aircraft is unlikely to complete its 6 hour flight with the amount of fuel on board . Therefore the decision to return is likely the right one .
The FAA <URL> contains the guidance for Aviation Training Devices , including the BATD 's . The AC states that as long as the system has been FAA approved by the manufacturer ( and in your case you say that it " meets the FAA requirements " ) , that no specific approval is required for training conducted under 14 CFR 61 . For use under 14 CFR 141 however , you would need specific FAA approval ( see below ) . 14 CFR 61 Approval You must simply follow the conditions specified in the AC : 5 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 61 . To be approved for use for pilot training and certification under part 61 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing procedural training in all elements for which it is to be used . Those elements should be specified in an acceptable training curriculum or as specifically authorized by the FAA and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components as required by paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c ( 2 ) . If the device is being used in a course of training for a pilot certificate or rating , a person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . In addition , a BATD may be used in a training curriculum that provides for : A similar scope and content of a syllabus that is used under part 141 ; Instructional materials for flight events ; A means of showing progress , such as an outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance ; and The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval . 14 CFR 141 Approval 141 Approval is almost the same , but must be approved by the school 's POI ( principle operations inspector ) : 6 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 141 . Local FSDO may approve BATDs as part of an overall part 141 curriculum approval and certification process . Pilot schools that want to use a BATD as part of their training curriculum must notify their principal operations inspector ( POI ) . The POI is responsible for approving how the BATD is to be used in the certificate holder 's part 141 curriculum . To be approved for use under part 141 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing training in all elements in which it will be used , as specified in the syllabus , and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components required in paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c of this appendix . A person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . e. Be used in an integrated ground and flight training curriculum which provides for : The scope and content of a curriculum in compliance with part 141 , The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval , Instructional materials for flight events , and An outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance .
<URL> ( <URL> and <URL> ) See here for the major points : <URL> Regarding your specific question : Would n't a single engine plane weigh less and thus can fly longer on a specific amount of fuel comparative to a twin engine plane ? Both airplanes above are powered by the same <URL> , so yes the twin will be heavier . But it can also lift more weight ( i.e. more fuel ) , and cruise at a higher speed for the same power setting , or cruise at the same speed for lower power setting . Either the higher speed or lower power , combined with the more fuel , gives the twin a longer range . In fact , double . 2,603 km compared to 1,333 km . If you wanted to compare the twin to a single with a 600 hp engine , then there is no weight advantage . Only the bigger engine is harder to maintain . On a technical note , weight is not a big issue in cruise . The power to overcome the induced drag from the lift ( which counters the weight ) , decreases with speed , i.e. , it takes less power to create lift in cruise , than at slow speeds . ( See graph below for the induced drag . ) Same fuel Twins are designed to fly on one engine , which means half the power potential is enough , which is helped by the bigger span wing . So the same fuel load will give the same or more range for the twin . Unless , you want 600 hp vs 2x300 hp , in that case the single will win because of its smaller form . Some numbers : For the two planes above , here are the gallons-per-hour and cruise speeds : As you can see , the higher fuel consumption is offset nicely by the speed , and note that the twin will reach the cruise altitude in less time as well . Sources : <URL> , <URL> If we <URL> then it wo n't be an apples-to-apples comparison , but the single-turbine plane will be faster , and will have longer range , but that 's mainly due to the different engine types ( combined with different cruise speeds ) . For the Cessna Caravan , the <URL> ( minus the accessories ) weighs as half as a single 300 hp piston engine , which can allow for 200-400 kg more fuel , but the turboprop engines are very , very expensive . So depending on the operation , a fuel saving here might be overdone by the initial cost . <URL> ( <URL> )
Thrust is air mass flow multiplied by the speed difference between flight and nozzle speed of the engine . To increase thrust , subsonic engines try to maximize mass flow ( by increasing the bypass ratio ) while supersonic engines rely more on increasing the nozzle speed ( by using afterburners ) . The core engines do not differ much - after all , the intake will make sure that air reaches the engine <URL> , regardless of flight speed . The main difference is in their bypass ratio . The slower the design speed , the bigger the bypass ratio may become . At very low speed , the ungeared , shrouded fan is exchanged for a geared , free spinning propeller , in other words , the jet changes to a turboprop . The intake and nozzle , however , are very different indeed . The optimum bypass ratio changes continuously , but since the drag coefficient drops after crossing Mach 1 , airplanes are either designed for a maximum Mach number of 0.9 or less , or 1.6 and above . The corresponding bypass ratios today are up to 12 for subsonic engines , and less than 1 for supersonic engines . This produces a sharp boundary at the speed of sound , and many military engines designed for supersonic flight lost their afterburners and were fitted with a big fan to become the engines for subsonic transport aircraft . Examples are : The <URL> turbojet ( installed in the F-100 and F-102 fighters , among others ) became the JT-3D turbofan which powered the Boeing 707 or the DC-8 . The core of the <URL> ( installed in the F-15 and F-16 fighters , among others ) became the <URL> turbofan which is used in the Boeing 737 or the Airbus A320 . The differences between sub - and supersonic engines grow bigger the more you move away from their core . High-pressure compressor , combustion chamber and high pressure turbine look and work the same , but the low pressure compressor of subsonic engines swallows a lot more air and has a much bigger diameter . Supersonic engines in turn mostly have an afterburner . The biggest difference , however , are the intakes ( large pitot intake with <URL> for subsonic aircraft versus adjustable <URL> for supersonic flight ) and the nozzle ( fixed for subsonic flight versus a complex , <URL> for supersonic flight ) . This is due to the very different air speeds and the much higher exit velocities required for supersonic flight .
The Part 141 flight school that I used to work at quoted around \ $ 7,000 for their instrument package , which was 30 hours of dual flight , 20 hours of ground instruction , and 10 hours of PC-ATD simulator time . They were a Cessna Pilot Center using the old CPC King Schools course . It was a good course , and while numbers varied , I did have a couple of students who squeaked by right on the Part 141 course minimums . Other pilots added 5 to 10 hours more flight training into the mix . In general , my gut says that it should cost an average pilot who has 100 + hours and flies semi-regularly between \ $ 7,000 and \ $ 9,000 ; probably closer to the low end than the high end , especially if the student does a bunch of self study at home on a flight simulator , possibly using VATSim as a simulated ATC . As far as what to look for , I would recommend a Part 141 course just because the FAA is involved in the course standards , and instructor standardization is ( supposed to be ) part of the 141 criteria . It might be worth asking what their first-attempt pass rate is on checkrides , but that 's not a meaningful long-term measure of the course 's quality , just a short-term one . You should find a course whose syllabus makes sense , includes simulator training and scenario-based flights , and make sure you work with an instructor you like . They ca n't be your best friend - they very well might need to give you some serious critique or cut a lesson short because things are n't going well - but you should be happy to spend a couple of hours a foot away from them in the cockpit . I 'm trying to track down the average hours to attain an instrument rating in the US ; if I find it , I 'll update my answer .
The simplest equation uses an assumed propeller efficiency $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ and converts power P into thrust T like $ $ T = \ frac { P } { v } \ cdot \ eta _ { Prop } $ $ The tricky thing is to get $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ right . Use 85 % for lightly-loaded * propellers working at their design point . And make sure you subtract the power offtake from the engine for driving the accessories , so you only use the effective power at the propeller , not the rated engine power . The equation only works if the propeller is in motion , so airspeed $ v $ is not zero . For covering the static case , please see <URL> . * The load on a propeller can be expressed by the ratio of thrust to the propeller disc area , made dimensionless by dividing by the dynamic pressure $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ . If $ T$ is thrust and $ d $ is the diameter , the dimensionless thrust loading coefficient $ c_T $ is $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 8 } \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Sometimes this is simplified to $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Note that this definition needs the propeller thrust at a specific speed . A different way of expressing the propeller loading , which lends itself to using the easy to measure static thrust , is by dividing thrust by the disc area and the dynamic pressure of the propeller tip at rest , with $ n $ as the RPM of the prop : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n \ cdot \ pi \ cdot d } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } } $ $ and again a simplified form of this can be found in literature : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot d ^ 4 } $ $ Generally , a lightly loaded prop has a big diameter and flies at low to moderate speed . While WW II warbirds are still in the lightly loaded realm , all large turboprops ( C-130 , P-3 ) are firmly outside of it .
The operating procedures for the four airlines I worked for ( 2 commuters and two 747 carriers ) all called for the flying pilot ( which would be the first officer if it was their leg ) to retain control of the airplane until all relevant checklists had been accomplished . That said , it is , of course , the captain 's prerogative to take control at any point . That would , I think , be very unwise to do in the case of an engine failure during takeoff unless the first officer was really screwing up . The greater workload in the 747 during emergency/abnormal procedures lies with the non-flying pilot and the flight engineer ( old 3 man cockpit 747-100s and -200 s ) . The recommended procedure at my last two airlines was , if the captain was flying at the time of the failure , to hand control to the first officer after all relevant checklists had been completed , to thus enable the captain to give his full attention to how best to proceed . My personal and observational experience is that there is little difference between captains and first officers at the 747 level insofar as control manipulation during go/no go situations on the runway in simulators . In fact , I could point you to an accident resulting in the total loss of a 747 when the flying pilot was the Captain , and he elected to abort 30 knots after $ V_1 $ , thus insuring the aircraft would leave the runway .
end question
start question
Was there ever an accident from in-flight smoking ?
24 December 1982 ; CAAC Ilyushin 18B ; Canton ( Guangzhou ) , China : The aircraft was on a scheduled domestic flight when an onboard fire broke out as a result of a carelessly discarded cigarette . The aircraft landed and the passengers and crew evacuated , but 25 of the 50 passengers were killed . All 11 crew members survived . <URL>
Just off the top of my head , It would take up space that could be used for three or four paying passengers . This would result in increased ticket prices for everybody and the non-smoking majority have no incentive to subsidise a smoking cubicle . It would require a ventilation system that would prevent smoky air from getting into the rest of the cabin , which would add weight and complexity . It 's a fire risk and a small fire from some idiot disposing of paper in the ashtray could spread ; it would be hard to detect such a fire early because you could n't just put a smoke detector in the smoking cubicle . ( I guess an infra-red detector would work . ) Almost nobody tries to smoke in the lavatory so reducing the occurrence of an event that hardly ever happens is n't worth much . Rates of smoking are decreasing in most Western countries , so demand for such a cubicle is already falling . Anti-smoking legislation is often aimed at worker protection : who 's going to clean the smoking cubicle and what equipment will they need ? I doubt there 's significant pressure , even from smokers , for such a service to be provided .
NASA added a second cockpit to their Boeing 737-100 , located in the forward cabin . History is a bit patchy , but I believe this was initially to see if it was possible to fly the plane by camera . This might be required by a supersonic design where windows would be impossible ( also known as a ' virtual cockpit ' ) . I understand it has been used for all sort of experiments since then . NASA 515 is the first B-737 built . First used by Boeing to qualify the 737 for airline service , the prototype 737 has since been heavily modified by NASA . It has two separate cockpits - a conventional B-737 forward cockpit providing operational support and safety backup , and an operational research flight deck positioned behind in what was the aircraft 's first-class cabin section . The <URL> involving this aircraft are listed on their website . <URL> Credits : NASA <URL> Credits : Museum of Flight
<URL> 07-NOV-1971 Sikorsky CH-124A Sea King ( S-61B ) Suffered single engine failure on take-off . Pilot attempted to return while also dumping fuel . From what I 've read , fuel-dump systems are more common on military helicopters . Sometimes , a helicopter may not have enough power to hover in ground effect for a normal landing or take-off because of loss of an engine , high density altitude , or being overweight . The alternative procedure is to perform a <URL> , which is an advanced , but not an emergency , maneuver . But if the copter is landing in a confined area , such as a small pad on a frigate in a stormy ocean , there 's no room for a running landing , so its better to dump fuel to allow the copter to hover into a landing .
Yes , there are . The <URL> is one example of an aircraft designed with a retractable tailwheel . <URL> Source : USAAF via <URL> , Public Domain ( USGOV-PD ) Another example would be the <URL> : <URL> Source : <URL> , cc-by-sa-2 .0 Doubtless there are also other examples of aircraft similarly equipped with retractable tailwheels .
It 's the <URL> : The yaw string dates from the earliest days of aviation , and actually was the first flight instrument . Picture : <URL> <URL>
Yes , the SR-72 project has indeed been officially announced . Lockheed <URL> back in 2013 . Apparently it actually did get quite a bit of attention at the time , enough to actually <URL> The source quoted in the question is correct that Lockheed 's announcement did confirm that the SR-72 would be hypersonic : But now Lockheed Martin believes it has the answer . " The Skunk Works has been working with Aerojet Rocketdyne for the past seven years to develop a method to integrate an off-the-shelf turbine with a scramjet to power the aircraft from standstill to Mach 6 plus , " says Brad Leland , portfolio manager for air-breathing hypersonic technologies . Also , from <URL> , confirming both the Mach 6 capability and the intention for it having at least the option of flying unmanned : Envisioned as an unmanned aircraft , the SR-72 would fly at speeds up to Mach 6 , or six times the speed of sound . <URL> , a technology demonstrator aircraft may be flying by 2018 : Lockheed has run scaled tests on components . " The next step would be to put it through a series of tests or critical demonstrations , " Leland says . " We are ready for those critical demonstrations , and we could be ready to do such a demonstration aircraft in 2018 . That would be the beginning of building and running complete critical demonstrations . As of now , there are no technologies to be invented . We are ready to proceed -- the only thing holding us back is the perception that [ hypersonics ] is always expensive , large and exotic . " Here 's a rendering of the proposed design from <URL> : <URL> Source : <URL> , which apparently took it from <URL> . Lockheed was <URL> to study the viability of their proposed combination turbine/ramjet engine solution for the SR-72 . Task Order No.NNC15TA03T provides for a parametric design study to establish the viability of a Turbine Based Combined Cycle ( TBCC ) Propulsion system consisting of integrating several combinations of near-term turbine engine solutions and a very low Mach ignition Dual Mode RamJet ( DMRJ ) in the SR-72 vehicle concept . Task Order NNC15TA03T is issued under Contract NNC10BA08B on a firm fixed price basis . Firm fixed price is $ 892,292 .
How the Swiss Air pilots got paid would , of course , depend on Swiss Air policy . I suspect pay policies vary greatly between airlines and countries , but for what it 's worth below are the pay policies for the four airlines I worked for in the 1980s and 1990s . At all four I would have been credited with only the time from push back until the parking brake was set on return insofar as flight time was concerned , but as you will see that would n't have made any significant difference in my pay . commuter # 1 no union -- a straight salary but with an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it never did . commuter # 2 no union -- a straight salary regardless of the number of hours flown , but they never abused that . 747 freight carrier no union -- a straight salary plus an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it occasionally did . 747 passenger carrier in-house union -- flight time hourly pay with a guaranteed minimum . You always went substantially over the minimum . They tried to get you as close as possible to the regulatory max of 1000 hours a year . Additionally , they had a policy that whenever your duty time ( as opposed to flight time ) went over 16 consecutive hours , you got paid for each hour over that at a rate of 1.5 times your regular hourly flight time rate . Also , you were paid half your regular hourly flight rate while deadheading . Then , if you had less than 8 hours ( I might not be remembering that number correctly ) between assignments , your duty time continued . My first assignment for this airline was a 32-hour duty day . I operated from JFK to AMS ( Amsterdam ) , so my duty time started at show time , 2 hours before departure . At Amsterdam 5 hours on the ground then commercialling ( riding in the back on another airline ) to SIN ( Singapore ) and then to CGK ( Jakarta ) positioning for a Hajj flight . Crew scheduling regularly abused pilots , but nobody complained because you were being so well paid when they did abuse you . The breakdown for hours at the flight time rate for that trip was approximately : 7.5 hours operating time JFK-AMS 8 hours deadheading pay AMS-SIN-CGK ( half of 16 hours riding in the back ) 24 hours extended duty pay ( 32 hours duty time minus 16 hour threshold times 1.5 ) So , 39.5 pay hours at the regular new first officer rate of 55 per hour = 2,172.50 , which looked pretty good to me since I had come from a carrier than paid me a straight 4500 per month salary as a 747 captain . I ca n't remember all the flight time/duty time details , but back then at least the international rules were much less restrictive than the domestic rules . Also , back then it was common practice to do things like scheduling a flight for , say , 11:59 for regulatory purposes , when everyone knew it would go slightly over the 12-hour international rule of the time . It may be worth noting here , that the mind-set of the crew , at least the cockpit crew , is totally different from that of passengers . The passenger wants to get from point A to point B , whereas the crew is simply ' at work ' regardless of whether they go anyplace or not . Consequently , at least in my experience and opinion , delays are n't nearly as frustrating to crew as they are to passengers .
Well , sort of . The Kennedy Space Center , where the shuttle operations were conducted , <URL> . but then , the show was run by NASA , not FAA . The shuttle operations were coordinated through the Aerospace Control Officer ( ACO ) at the Air Force 45 th Space Wing 's Eastern Range ( it used a military TACAN ) . FAA was informed of the shuttle landing and nothing else . NASA simply cleared the airspace for a 30 mile radius around the intended landing site to prevent collisions . In the trajectory of the shuttle landing , FAA issued a NOTAM called ' Space Shuttle Landing Operations Advisory ' to warn the users that 25 miles to either side of the nominal reentry trajectory is potentially vulnerable to debris , but the airspace is not closed , like this example : FDC 9/1945 ( A0856/09 ) - ... SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS ADVISORY ... EFFECTIVE 0911271848 UTC UNTIL 0911271923 UTC SPACE SHUTTLE LANDING OPERATIONS 25 NM EITHER SIDE OF THE LINE BETWEEN 2743S/17214W 0411N/16214W 2925N/13455W 3440N/11828W 3457N/11745W FROM SURFACE TO UNLIMITED . WIE UNTIL UFN . CREATED : 25 NOV 21:11 2009 For these actions , Special Use Airspace was activated . The ACO coordinates these actions with the FAA 's ARTCC ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) in Miami , Florida
It would appear that the aircraft you flew was D-AGWR , a A319 with MSN ( Manufacturer Serial Number ) 4285 delivered in April 2010 ( hence fairly new ) . There is a switch at the bottom of the overhead panel , next to the seat belt sign , slightly right of the middle . Flip it and they will extinguish . The functionality is a bit more complicated than it would appear , since it feeds into the central aircraft electronics . <URL> <URL> Out of interest , this button no longer exists on the Boeing B787 , suggesting that it is on the way out . Only the seat belt option remains . The slots for no smoking are being increasingly ' redeveloped ' into a sign for electronic devices instead on some types . They just put a no smoking sticker on the seat in front of you to fulfil the same function . I do not know if they cockpit text has been modified on the aircraft that undergo this modification . <URL>
For the landing is quite easy . Airliners usually approach an airport descending along $ 3 ^ \ circ $ slopes . This means that they will be 300m AGL approximately 5.7 km before the runway threshold , and they will be at 550m AGL about 10.5 km before the same point . For the take-off the situation is a bit more complicated , as each aircraft will have a different performance . Taking a value of about 1000ft/min for the vertical velocity and 200Kts for the forward velocity ( in aviation we use the imperial system , for a bit of background see <URL> ) we get similar distances to the above ( it is a $ 2.8 ^ \ circ $ slope ) Note that these paths are more or less a straight continuation of the runway , particularly on the landing side ( less so on the take off side ) . Each airport has approach and departure procedures , you could try to have a look at those . They are usually published by Jeppesen .
Summary No . The aspects that are talked about now are not the ones talked about then . My ( hazy ) recollection is of concerns that the A320 lacked a system of cables and pulleys of the sort used by the Wright brothers . Perhaps pilots of the time had more focused concerns but I do n't recall them making the front pages of newspapers . In the 1980s there was discussion of Airbus flight control systems but the discussion focused on factors that were not involved in the most notable A320 crashes in the late '80s and early 90 's . Several Airbus accidents seem to be at least partly the result of pilots lack of familiarity with sophisticated aircraft systems in general rather than with features that are not found in other aircraft . The Airbus control system The main innovations by Airbus were the application to civil airliners of designs that had previously only been used on other types of aircraft . Fly by wire . No mechanical cables , pulleys and associated friction . Sidesticks . To provide clearer view of displays and greater pilot comfort . Flight envelope protection . To prevent excessive inputs stalling or damaging the airframe . Transfer of control Airbus spent some time comparing and investigating support for transfer of control between pilots , including in emergency situations . They investigated pilot preferences for several approaches to this . They revisited this aspect over the years and it has become a point of focus since the AF447 report . However it does n't seem to have been a particular point of controversy in 1987 . Perhaps few people in the 1980s fully realized the extent to which pilots can operate independently and antagonistically in severe emergencies and the degree to which teamwork and communication disappears . There were multiple severe accidents briefly after the entry into service of the A320 You mean these : 26 June 1988 , <URL> . Pilots flew aircraft into trees during unrehearsed demonstration flight at unfamiliar aerodrome after mistaking trees for grass on approach . 14 February 1990 <URL> . Idle/open descent mode engaged and pilots failed to act as aircraft descended into terrain near airport . 20 January 1992 <URL> . Aircraft flown into terrain after autopilot incorrectly put into vertical speed mode and entered numbers appropriate for flight-angle mode . Air Inter had chosen not to equip aircraft with ground proximity warning system . The total number of hull-loss accidents for the 320 does n't seem high compared to other aircraft , but it 's hard to compare the numbers if you do n't take into account fleet size , cycles flown etc. . the A320 seems to have a very aggressive manipulation of the aircraft controls I 'm not sure what you mean by " aggressive manipulation " but that seems an extreme view . The Airbus systems are a progressive development of existing trends . The accidents were largely the result of pilots setting inappropriate modes in systems like the autopilot . The accidents apparently did n't arise because of , for example , the way the control sticks operate . Was there ever any questioning of the Airbus augmented control prior to the introduction to service ? By " augmented control " I guess you mean features like the flight envelope protection that prevents pilot inputs from overloading the airframe . That does n't seem to have been controversial . The only controversy was over two items that had been used in military aircraft but not in commercial passenger aircraft fly by wire sidesticks These do n't seem to have been a large factor in the specific accidents mentioned above . Further reading : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Acrobatic is being incorrectly used , although it is slightly more complicated than that . " Aerobatic " refers specifically to flight , and " acrobatic " refers specifically to feats of the human body , so referring to an aircraft as performing acrobatics is wrong . That said , <URL> and sounds nearly identical , so it 's an understandable and relatively common error .
Not according to the authors of <URL> <URL> Despite impressive technological achievements and great expectations all around , the service 's business performance ultimately proved an abject failure . In the ten years before Verizon finally pulled the plug , Airfone generated only 50 million total calls , a fraction of the calls carried daily by cellular companies . While the Airfone service was heavily used when bad weather caused significant delays , the system 's utilization at other times was extremely low . A typical plane was equipped with as many as 60 phones . From these , the average large jet generated fewer than 100 calls per day in about 16 hours of flying time . As a result , the expensive system , with its heavy load of fixed costs , remained idle well over 99 % of the time . ... While Airfone claimed that some customers ' monthly bills topped out at $ 4,000 , there were not nearly enough of them to sustain the service 's sky-high fixed costs . ... Within a few years of the service 's launch , airlines started to remove the expensive phone infrastructure from their cabins , since the Airfone cost them more in increased fuel consumption ( because of the system 's weight ) than it generated revenues through their revenue sharing arrangement with Verizon . My emphasis .
Most accidents are referred to by flight number It depends who it is that is referring to the accident , and on who they are addressing . News media and the general public Newpapers and other media use flight numbers because that is the number known to friends and relatives of the individuals concerned and because most members of the public who have flown as passengers are very familiar with the concept of flight numbers but not really familiar with aircraft registration numbers . Investigators Investigating authorities have their own numbering schemes for accidents they investigate . Aircraft registration numbers change when an aircraft is sold to a purchaser based in another country . The only number that stays with an aircraft for its entire life is the manufacturer 's serial number . All these numbers can appear in official accident investigations reports . The registration number is usually prominent . <URL> <URL> <URL>
It 's apparently loosely based on <URL> and like in the actual incident , I do n't think he deliberately inverts the plane . In the actual event , the horizontal stabilizer gets jammed in an extreme position thus forcing the plane to invert . Now if it were possible to fly a commercial airplane that big inverted , Alaska Airlines too would 've landed safely eventually ( which did n't happen , despite the pilots trying to fly it upside down according to the CVR transcripts ) .
The certification specification for aircraft are deliberately a bit vague on the topic . This allows manufacturers to come up with creative solutions that may have been prohibited if specific angles where required in the specification . For large aircraft , EASA has requirements CS25 .773 in the <URL> which is included below this answer . The FAA requirements are similar in FAR 25.773 . To make sure that there is an agreed standard on what is acceptable to the certifying authorities , acceptable means of compliance have been published . Manufacturers may deviate from the AMC 's if they have good arguments for it . An example of the FAA AMC on this topic can be found in <URL> . The FAA document refers to standard <URL> which is the successor of <URL> ( unfortunately you have to pay for these documents ) . From <URL> and the image there contained , you can see how the outside visual field of view of the cockpit of the A320 family compares to the 580B standard . <URL> CS 25.773 Pilot compartment view ( See AMC 25.773 ) a ) Non-precipitation conditions . For nonprecipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any manoeuvres within the operating limitations of the aeroplane , including taxiing , take-off , approach and landing . ( 2 ) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the normal duties of the minimum flight crew ( established under CS 25.1523 ) . This must be shown in day and night flight tests under non-precipitation conditions . ( b ) Precipitation conditions . For precipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) The aeroplane must have a means to maintain a clear portion of the windshield during precipitation conditions , sufficient for both pilots to have a sufficiently extensive view along the flight path in normal flight attitudes of the aeroplane . This means must be designed to function , without continuous attention on the part of the crew , in -- ( i ) Heavy rain at speeds up to 1 · 5 VSR1 , with lift and drag devices retracted ; and ( ii ) The icing conditions specified in Appendix C and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O , if certification for flight in icing conditions is sought ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ) : ( A ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 1 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( B ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 2 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( C ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 3 ) , all icing conditions . ( 2 ) No single failure of the systems used to provide the view required by subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph must cause the loss of that view by both pilots in the specified precipitation conditions . ( 3 ) The first pilot must have a window that : ( i ) is openable under the conditions prescribed in subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph when the cabin is not pressurised ; ( ii ) provides the view specified in ( b ) ( 1 ) ; and ( iii ) gives sufficient protection from the elements against impairment of the pilot 's vision . ( 4 ) The openable window specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 3 ) of this paragraph need not be provided if it is shown that an area of the transparent surface will remain clear sufficient for at least one pilot to land the aeroplane safely in the event of - ( i ) Any system failure or combination of failures , which is not , Extremely Improbable in accordance with CS 25.1309 , under the precipitation conditions specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph . ( ii ) An encounter with severe hail , birds , or insects ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 4 ) ) . ( c ) Internal windshield and window fogging . The aeroplane must have a means to prevent fogging to the internal portions of the windshield and window panels over an area which would provide the visibility specified in sub-paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph under all internal and external ambient conditions , including precipitation conditions , in which the aeroplane is intended to be operated ( See AMC 25.773 ( c ) ) . ( d ) Fixed markers or other guides must be installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for an optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan . If lighted markers or guides are used they must comply with the requirements specified in CS 25.1381 . Many aircraft have eye position gauges in the cockpit that pilots can use to adjust their seat for optimal view . They either try to line up little colored balls or look through a small sight . Here are a few ex
I 'm not exactly sure whether this counts , but I think the <URL> using a <URL> comes pretty close . Though Major Buang-Ly was not a civilian , he has never seen a carrier before and the landing was n't exactly illegal . It was permitted by <URL> during <URL> , who even scuttled helicopters on the deck to ensure safe landing . The image below shows the aircraft as it comes to a stop . <URL> Image from <URL>
Yes , it is possible for contaminated air to enter the cabin . The air pressurization is provided by the " packs " ( air conditioners ) , which are in turn powered by the bleed air ( hot air extracted from low stages of the turbine ) of the engine : <URL> To avoid the problem , bleed air is shut when engine trouble is confirmed or suspected . For example , the Engine Fire checklist for the Boeing 737 calls for : [ Autothrottle ] ... Disengage [ Thrust lever ] ... Confirm ... Close [ Engine start lever ] ... Confirm ... CUTOFF ... [ ISOLATION VALVE ] ... CLOSE [ PACK switch ] ... OFF With one engine out , the cabin air is provided by the bleed air of the other good engine . With a dual bleed shutoff ( or failure ) , you better get down right away .
You say mention a ' forward rate ' of 9:2 . If I get you right , that means L/D = 4,5 The mass of your body , plus electric motor , battery and parachute is probably around 110 kg . Assuming you may glide with an airspeed of 15 m/s at L/D = 4,5 , the vertical component of the airspeed is 15/4 ,5 = 3,33 m/s , and the ' gravitational power ' involved is 110 x 9,8 x 3,33 = 3600 W . The conversion efficiency of motor + propeller is probably 0,5 , so the electric power needed to fly level at L/D = 4,5 and 15 m/s would be 7200 W . If the capacity of your batteries is 6 x 504 Wh = 3024 WH , then your flight time would be 3024/7200 = 0,42 hours = 25 minutes ... More or less ...
end question
start question
If a passenger steps in for the crew , are they eligible for a reward as in maritime law ?
The short answer is no but it really depends on what kind of " pilot " is on board . " Is there a pilot on board " If the pilot in question is a Private Pilot as per FAA licensing ( although its often similar elsewhere in the world ) . They would be legally prevented from receiving compensation for flight time as per the FAR 's . <URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft ... If the pilot in question was a commercial rated pilot they could in theory receive compensation for the flight time but as far as I know there is no aviation law like the maritime law . Furthermore maritime law generally allows you a portion or all of the recovered cargo value ( think treasure salvage ) in the case of a hull loss . Here in the US if an aircraft were to go down be it over land or water it becomes an accident scene which the NTSB would have jurisdiction over and is generally in charge of finding and salvaging for their investigation . If you were to recover a piece of an aircraft that was part of an ongoing investigation you may be required to turn it over to the authorities . The closest scenario that I know of like this , <URL> . However he was not pilot in command and was only providing support . All things considered you will probably get a book deal out of the whole thing if it were to happen ...
Mainly by the soon to happen descent and landing , probably at a place you were n't expecting to go . :) If you are seated behind the wing , you might be able to see smoke or flames coming out of the engine , but other times it will just quit with no visible indicaion , depending on the cause of the failure . Sometimes ( usually just after takeoff when the airplane is slow ) it is obvious and you can tell by the change in the sound of the airplane ( one side suddenly gets quiet or there might be a loud bang depending on why it failed ) , a sudden yaw in one direction ( the nose pulls to one side ) , and an abrupt pitching down of the nose ( done by the pilot to maintain flying speed ) . Other times ( like during a descent with plenty of speed and the engines at idle , or when the center engine of a three engine airplane fails ) it can be hard for even the pilot to tell without looking at the instrumentation , so you probably wo n't notice it . Another major clue would be when the seatbelt sign unexpectedly coming on , without an announcement or indication of turbulence , and the flight attendants suddenly putting things away and getting ready for landing , especially when you are n't close to your destination . Being briefed for an emergency landing is also a dead giveaway ( no pun intended ) .
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
For your specific example , <URL> ( Personnel Licensing ) , section 2.2.4 covers " Validation and Conversion of Foreign Licenses and Ratings . " It states that a holder of a license from a " Contracting State in accordance with ICAO Annex 1 " ( this includes the United States ) is eligible for " validation " of their foreign license . The validation process involves presenting the appropriate documentation of your license , ratings and logbook . For more than just PPL privileges , you must also pass a " skill test " and demonstrate the required knowledge and ability . The conversion ( " validation certificate " ) gives you the same ratings you had on your US license and is valid for 1 year . The FAA has a very similar policy for foreign-to-US license conversion , covered in <URL> . As in the Philippines , the FAA does not require a skills test for private pilot privileges , but a written knowledge test is required for conversion of an instrument rating . <URL> discusses conversion from EASA ( Europe ) to FAA ( US ) . Most other ICAO states recognize each other 's licenses in a similar manner . In all cases you have to present your license and proof of experience , and in some cases pass a written test and/or checkride . I have n't look up the exact regulations for , say , EASA ( Europe ) or CAAC ( China ) but I 'm sure they are n't far off from the examples above . In reality diplomatic considerations probably also come into play : a holder of an Iranian license would probably run into problems attempting to convert/validate their license in Israel , even though both are ICAO-contracting states , since they are n't on very good political terms to say the least . But this will likely be the exception rather than the rule . ( There are only 3 <URL> : Dominica , Liechtenstein and Tuvalu . )
There is no regulatory requirement for oxygen to be available for anyone on board an aircraft so long as it remains at altitudes of 12,500 ' MSL or less . And only the required minimum flight crew is required to have oxygen if they are flying above 12,500 ' up to and including 14,000 MSL ' IF they will be at those altitudes for more than 30 minutes . <URL> If they were going above 15,000 ' MSL that would be another story . So the short of it is , No , that pilot was not irresponsible , perhaps , maybe slightly inconsiderate , but not irresponsible . The reason for this is the lower density of the air is n't low enough to harm the majority of passengers . Except for extreme cases , such as those with severe and uncontrolled asthma or heavy smokers , the worst thing that would happen would be the passengers would just get sleepy and fall asleep . This is natural , and because the body does not need as much oxygen when asleep . For passengers there generally wo n't be any harm done from a mild case altitude induced hypoxic hypoxia . And YES ! You can ask someone if they will be ' OK ' at higher altitudes ! Just as it is not only ' OK ' but required to ask their weight for weight and balance calculations . ( And quite frankly I believe most people find that more intrusive . ) In fact you should take 5 minutes to tell your passengers that the flight will be in excess of , say 11,000 ' , that way they can be prepared for some unusual effects and not have to worry about them . To take it a step further , remember you are the Pilot in Command and you should be aware of your passenger 's limitations as that may trigger any self imposed safety limitations you have for the safety of the flight . Now , if you just want passengers to be comfortable and/or they absolutely insist on not taking a little nap , then it is entirely up to you if you want to carry a portable aviation oxygen canister with you for your passengers . For further information on hypoxia I would recommend the <URL> on it and the differing effects on pilots , and by extension passengers . Hope this helps !
If a pilot is not rested enough to safely operate the aircraft , they should not fly . If a pilot is flying and falling asleep , they should switch out with another pilot or land . Current FAA regulations for domestic flights generally limit pilots to eight hours of flight time during a 24-hour period . For the Air Force , actual flight duty periods vary depending on the aircraft type and mission but we are required to get 12 hours of crew rest with the opportunity for 8 hours of uninterrupted rest prior to flying . You can read the FAA 's Fact Sheet on Pilot Flight Time , Rest , and Fatigue <URL> .
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
The components of attitude vector are called : yaw ( or heading ) is the angle of longitudinal ( x ) axis in horizontal plane , pitch is angle of longitudinal ( x ) axis from the horizontal and roll is angle of lateral ( y ) axis from the intersection of the yz ( orthogonal to longitudinal axis ) plane with horizontal . And their derivatives are usually yaw-rate , pitch-rate and roll-rate . Second derivative names probably vary . Regarding coordinate system , the first axis , called x , is always longitudinal and positive direction is forward . The second axis , called y , is usually lateral one , but positive direction is right in some systems and left in others . And z completes a right-handed coordinate system ( so your vector products work the usual way ) , so z down if y points right . Edit : I thought u , v , w is sometimes used as alias for the axis , but actually they are usually rather used for the velocity vector components .
You do n't brace -- you 're still operating the aircraft ! The pilot seats have shoulder harnesses ; in many cases you can lock them , plus they also have inertial reels that keep you from slamming forward at an impact . Additionally , the pilots can presumably see the moment of impact coming , and tense for exactly that moment in a way that passengers can not .
There are no formal qualifications required to be an airport manager -- it 's not a " regulated professional field " in the same way as Doctors , Lawyers , or Professional Engineers . If a person had the money they could purchase an airport and name themselves " airport manager " of their own facility . That said , managing an airport has an interesting set of challenges and could probably be described as like being the mayor of a small city with its own road infrastructure ( runways , taxiways , and ramp areas ) , snow removal services , business districts ( FBOs , restaurants , &amp; other tenants ) , municipal services ( ARFF ) , and utilities ( airport lighting , fuel farms , drainage systems ) . The airport manager will also have to interface with federal agencies : The FAA/DOT at a minimum , and likely also the EPA and Homeland Security ( TSA/CBP ) . Working with the local municipality and dealing with local residents on matters like noise abatement is also usually part of the job . In many ways " airport manager " is as much a political position as an operational one . Because of the unique challenges involved in managing an airport there are degree programs specifically focused on airport management , and preference will probably be given to applicants with those degrees . Alternatively relevant operational experience ( either from running an airport elsewhere or from working in other municipal departments within the county ) might be enough to deem a candidate qualified . <URL> for airport executives/managers which offer independent certification for individuals . As a pilot I would say it 's advantageous for an airport manager to be a pilot ( and in the case of a small airport like the one you describe it would be helpful if they were an active pilot ) , but being a pilot does n't really qualify a person in any of the other key operational areas - snow removal , runway maintenance , emergency response , etc. - so while experience as a pilot or controller might be helpful in that it imparts a greater understanding of the operational impact of certain decisions it would likely be viewed as a secondary qualification .
There are lots of options . Flight training is the US is usually divided into <URL> and <URL> . Part 61 is general flight instruction and any FAA approved instructor can teach you under it : many part 61 instructors are independent or work for or with FBOs at GA airports . Part 141 governs flight schools that have a standard curriculum and are much more structured ; they 're often associated with training commercial pilots looking for airline careers . The license you get is exactly the same whichever way you learn . There are pros and cons to both approaches , <URL> summarizes them well but the most important general point is probably that part 61 is ' one on one ' training so it can be tailored for you and fit your schedule , whereas part 141 is ' school ' training and if you ca n't follow their schedule then it usually is n't possible anyway . For that reason , part 61 is often the only practical option for many private pilots who have jobs and families . Perhaps your real question here is " how do I find an instructor ? " , in which case you need to search the web , check out local FBOs and flight schools , ask for recommendations from pilots you know and so on . It 's definitely worth investing some time to find the right instructor for you , because that can make a huge difference to your progress ( and your costs ) .
To get an idea of the maximum forces , look at the certification limits . <URL> gives the limits for GA aircraft and <URL> those for larger aircraft including airliners . If these forces would be exceeded , even when something has failed , the aircraft would not be certified . The short-term limits in pitch are : 60 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 50 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 75 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The short-term limits in roll are : 30 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 25 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 50 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The maximum force limits for prolonged application are much lower again .
Unfortunately , having been on board in this situation I can tell you what happened on board my flight : The deceased was covered and secured in the seat . The passenger sitting next to the deceased were relocated . Needless to say , it was a very somber flight . No announcements were made to the effect , but for the people sitting around the rows , it was very sobering . The aircraft landed and everyone was told to remain in their seats . ER staff along with a bunch of other personnel came onboard . The body was removed . Passengers were deplaned . Years later , I was watching an episode of <URL> where an Emirates flight suffers a similar tragedy where a business class passenger is found unconcious . In addition to the normal scenario on board that I faced , the documentary revealed that : The crew was changed The person was pronounced dead by the local authorities
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
The short answer is no but it really depends on what kind of " pilot " is on board . " Is there a pilot on board " If the pilot in question is a Private Pilot as per FAA licensing ( although its often similar elsewhere in the world ) . They would be legally prevented from receiving compensation for flight time as per the FAR 's . <URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) through ( h ) of this section , no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire ; nor may that person , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft ... If the pilot in question was a commercial rated pilot they could in theory receive compensation for the flight time but as far as I know there is no aviation law like the maritime law . Furthermore maritime law generally allows you a portion or all of the recovered cargo value ( think treasure salvage ) in the case of a hull loss . Here in the US if an aircraft were to go down be it over land or water it becomes an accident scene which the NTSB would have jurisdiction over and is generally in charge of finding and salvaging for their investigation . If you were to recover a piece of an aircraft that was part of an ongoing investigation you may be required to turn it over to the authorities . The closest scenario that I know of like this , <URL> . However he was not pilot in command and was only providing support . All things considered you will probably get a book deal out of the whole thing if it were to happen ...
CFI candidates receive a spin training endorsement with no expiration date . According to <URL> , it should look like this : 46 . Spin training : section 61.183 ( i ) ( 1 ) . I certify that has received the required training of section 61.183 ( i ) . I have determined that is competent in instructional skills for training stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-05 The basis for this is that 61.183 does n't specify a time period in which the endorsement must be received : <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : [ ... ] Accomplish the following for a flight instructor certificate with an airplane or a glider rating : Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor indicating that the applicant is competent and possesses instructional proficiency in stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures after providing the applicant with flight training in those training areas in an airplane or glider , as appropriate , that is certificated for spins ; and
There are usually extra oxygen masks in the cabin - it is a regulatory requirement . From <URL> : ( c ) If certification for operation above 25,000 feet is requested , there must be oxygen dispensing equipment meeting the following requirements : ( 1 ) ... There must be ... at least two oxygen dispensing units connected to oxygen terminals in each lavatory . The total number of dispensing units and outlets in the cabin must exceed the number of seats by at least 10 percent . The extra units must be as uniformly distributed throughout the cabin as practicable . So the cabin crew can use the nearest unused oxygen masks . Also , each flight attendant position has a portable oxygen system , which can be used in case of emergency ( though it is intended usually for therapeutic purposes ) . in addition , there is also the Protective Breathing Equipment in the cabin . Though these two are not intended for normal use during decompression , I guess it can be used in case of an emergency .
The EASA <URL> are all publicly available online . Actually proving that an aircraft meets those criteria will certainly include all the steps you mentioned although exactly what happens probably depends a lot on the specific aircraft and manufacturer .
The answer to your question is actually really simple : do not exceed the limitations specified in the POH . Really , that 's it ! Note that LIMITATIONS are not the same as RECOMMENDED PROCEDURES . Recommended procedures are just that : recommendations . Limitations ( exclusively from the " limitations " section of the POH ) are the hard and fast rules you must adhere to . Full RPM in Cruise As long as your POH does not impose a limitation on takeoff RPM ( the Seneca II has such a limitation , for example ) , then there is nothing wrong with using max RPM from takeoff to shutdown . You wo n't damage the engine . If the POH provides a limitation on engine RPM ( specifically in Section II of the POH ) , you must adhere to that limitation . It 's common to see a 5 minute " max RPM " limitation on some turbocharged engines . Great , takeoff at max RPM then pull the engines back to the top of the green arc until you land . Easy ! Manifold Pressure &amp; RPM Mike Sowsun said : " You should always follow the manufacturer 's procedures but a general rule for direct drive normally aspirated engines is to keep the manifold pressure less than the RPM for cruise power . ( eg . 24 inches of MP at 2400 RPM ) . " If you decide to apply " rules of thumb " to all phases of flight you will be voluntarily handicapping your airplane 's full potential . Some definitions : Oversquare - manifold pressure > RPM ( 23 " @ 2100 RPM ) Undersquare - manifold pressure < RPM ( 23 " @ 2500 RPM ) Square - manifold pressure = RPM ( 23 " @ 2300 RPM ) Do not embrace the idea that manifold pressure should never , ever exceed the value of the first two digits of the engine RPM ( sounds pretty arbitrary when I put it that way , right ? ) . It actually may be beneficial to run an engine " oversquare " in some cases ! This is another example of why knowing your aircraft 's " Section II " limitations is important . If 23 " @ 2100 RPM falls within the limitations , go for it !! You wo n't hurt the engine . Same with 25 " @ 2300 RPM or 26.756431 " @ 2196.454634 RPM . I think you get my drift . As long as your manifold/RPM combination falls within the limitations set out in Section II of the POH , you 're golden !! Now , climbing out on a hot day with a garden variety Lycoming or Continental ( like in 170 ) ? 29 " @ 2100 RPM probably is n't wise . 30 " @ 2700 RPM ? Yeah , that 's better ! 25 " @ 2500 RPM is n't bad but it 's no better or worse that 26 " @ 2700 RPM or 30 " @ 2650 RPM . Remember , there 's nothing special about " square " manifold/RPM values . I 'd routinely run the IO-520 in my Bonanza at max manifold pressure and max RPM from takeoff to cruise and simply leaning to an EGT target as I climbed ( and watching CHTs , of course ) . Only when leveling off in cruise did I pull it back to an economical setting ( sometimes oversquare , sometimes undersquare ; always lean of peak ) . The engine ran beautifully with good CHTs and incurred no unusual wear . In fact , the engine 's health improved . Exhaust and plugs became noticeably cleaner and compressions improved . In cruise , set the power to any combination of manifold/RPM you desire provided that setting falls within the limitations in your POH . You wo n't hurt the engine with a valid manifold/RPM setting . It 's possible to put undue stress on a motor with a bad mixture setting , though . POHs are notorious for giving poor guidance with regard to mixture settings . Mixture settings require a little more attention above ~ 65 % power but that 's another topic entirely . I recommend that everyone with engine questions read John Deakin 's " Pelican Perch " articles . He 's THE source for fact based , accurate engine operation information . He happens to have touched on this " oversquare " myth here . See <URL> . Edit : I credited John Deakin with my linked article . I was mistaken . The author of the linked article is Linda Pendelton . She links to a Deakin article , though . Mike Busch also addresses the oversquare myth <URL> .
end question
start question
Are there regulations for the field of view from cockpits ?
The certification specification for aircraft are deliberately a bit vague on the topic . This allows manufacturers to come up with creative solutions that may have been prohibited if specific angles where required in the specification . For large aircraft , EASA has requirements CS25 .773 in the <URL> which is included below this answer . The FAA requirements are similar in FAR 25.773 . To make sure that there is an agreed standard on what is acceptable to the certifying authorities , acceptable means of compliance have been published . Manufacturers may deviate from the AMC 's if they have good arguments for it . An example of the FAA AMC on this topic can be found in <URL> . The FAA document refers to standard <URL> which is the successor of <URL> ( unfortunately you have to pay for these documents ) . From <URL> and the image there contained , you can see how the outside visual field of view of the cockpit of the A320 family compares to the 580B standard . <URL> CS 25.773 Pilot compartment view ( See AMC 25.773 ) a ) Non-precipitation conditions . For nonprecipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any manoeuvres within the operating limitations of the aeroplane , including taxiing , take-off , approach and landing . ( 2 ) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the normal duties of the minimum flight crew ( established under CS 25.1523 ) . This must be shown in day and night flight tests under non-precipitation conditions . ( b ) Precipitation conditions . For precipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) The aeroplane must have a means to maintain a clear portion of the windshield during precipitation conditions , sufficient for both pilots to have a sufficiently extensive view along the flight path in normal flight attitudes of the aeroplane . This means must be designed to function , without continuous attention on the part of the crew , in -- ( i ) Heavy rain at speeds up to 1 · 5 VSR1 , with lift and drag devices retracted ; and ( ii ) The icing conditions specified in Appendix C and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O , if certification for flight in icing conditions is sought ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ) : ( A ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 1 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( B ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 2 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( C ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 3 ) , all icing conditions . ( 2 ) No single failure of the systems used to provide the view required by subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph must cause the loss of that view by both pilots in the specified precipitation conditions . ( 3 ) The first pilot must have a window that : ( i ) is openable under the conditions prescribed in subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph when the cabin is not pressurised ; ( ii ) provides the view specified in ( b ) ( 1 ) ; and ( iii ) gives sufficient protection from the elements against impairment of the pilot 's vision . ( 4 ) The openable window specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 3 ) of this paragraph need not be provided if it is shown that an area of the transparent surface will remain clear sufficient for at least one pilot to land the aeroplane safely in the event of - ( i ) Any system failure or combination of failures , which is not , Extremely Improbable in accordance with CS 25.1309 , under the precipitation conditions specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph . ( ii ) An encounter with severe hail , birds , or insects ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 4 ) ) . ( c ) Internal windshield and window fogging . The aeroplane must have a means to prevent fogging to the internal portions of the windshield and window panels over an area which would provide the visibility specified in sub-paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph under all internal and external ambient conditions , including precipitation conditions , in which the aeroplane is intended to be operated ( See AMC 25.773 ( c ) ) . ( d ) Fixed markers or other guides must be installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for an optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan . If lighted markers or guides are used they must comply with the requirements specified in CS 25.1381 . Many aircraft have eye position gauges in the cockpit that pilots can use to adjust their seat for optimal view . They either try to line up little colored balls or look through a small sight . Here are a few ex
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
It depends on the autopilot and you need to read the AFM to know what the limitations are . All of the business jets that I have flown prohibit the use of the autopilot below a specific altitude ( between 50 and 1,000 feet depending on the autopilot and the configuration of the airplane ) . Nothing prevents then from being used lower but it is n't allowed . They will engage on the ground ( in fact it is part of the required preflight tests ) but have a specific prohibition against use for takeoff and landing . Other airplanes and autopilots however are approved for autoland all of the way down to a full stop , and some for takeoff as well . Speeds also depend on the autopilot . Some automatically disconnect if the aircraft receives a stall warning or overspeed signal but others do n't .
As you 've guessed , there are two options : a ferry flight , or shipping the aircraft in a container . Ferry flights are quite common ; the recent <URL> in the Pacific was a ferry flight to Hawaii . As well as planning a suitable route and dealing with permits and paperwork , refueling etc. , the ferry company may install <URL> to give more range , and provide the pilot with specialized survival and communications gear . And an airline ticket home , of course :-) This might all seem expensive , but considering that a new top-of-the-range Cirrus SR22 has a <URL> of almost USD 800,000 you can imagine that ferry costs are n't necessarily a big deal in comparison . The second option is to put the aircraft in a container and ship it , and there are <URL> who specialize in this ( the page has some small photos of aircraft in containers ) . The major concern in this case is removing the wings : gliders and many experimental ( e.g. home-built ) aircraft are designed to have their wings removed for storage and transportation ( towing behind your car ) but most typical Cessnas , Beechcraft etc. are n't . You need to have the aircraft professionally and carefully prepared and then re-assembled and checked after delivery . Which option is best depends on the costs of each option and the value of the aircraft . There 's also the consideration that if you buy a 60-year old aircraft from the other side of the world , ferry companies may decline to fly it to you because of the risks of subjecting it to the stresses and weather of a very long series of flights . Or their/your insurance company may refuse cover for a ferry flight for the same reason . Or perhaps the aircraft is certified for VFR only , which would make a long ferry journey much more difficult to plan and execute . In those cases , container shipping may be the only available option .
The short answer is that you need to get an <URL> ( special permission ) , as required by <URL> : § 91.311 Towing : Other than under § 91.309 . No pilot of a civil aircraft may tow anything with that aircraft ( other than under § 91.309 ) except in accordance with the terms of a certificate of waiver issued by the Administrator . ( <URL> is about towing gliders , so banner towing comes under 91.311 . ) You need at least a private pilot certificate to tow banners - sport and recreational pilots are n't allowed to do it - but since most banner towing is paid work , in practice the pilot will usually have a commercial certificate ( this is from the waiver instructions ) : When banner tow operations are conducted for compensation or hire , the pilot must have at least a limited commercial pilot certificate ( without an instrument rating ) and at least a valid second class medical certificate . An instrument rating is not a requirement for this operation . The FAA has a <URL> and the waiver issue process has more administrative details . There do n't seem to be many specific airspace requirements apart from the obvious , e.g. no towing in a TFR zone . But the FAA can impose more or less any conditions that they like as part of a waiver , and it will include the approved times and areas for operation . ( As an aside , it 's widely believed in the pilot community that the permanent <URL> and <URL> TFRs are really there to prevent banner towing , not to increase security . )
Good question . 14 CFR Part 139 requires FAA to issue airport operating certificates to airports that : Serve scheduled and unscheduled <URL> with more than 30 seats ; Serve scheduled air carrier operations in aircraft with more than 9 seats but less than 31 seats . Also : VFR charts depict airport 's hard and soft surface runways . Enroute charts depict airports having hard surface runways of at least 3000-foot in length . If your airport meets those criteria , you may contact the local Federal Aviation Administration , Airports District Office or Aeronautical Information Management , AJV-21 , at 1 - (866) 295-8236 to have your airport charted . That means for a private airstrip , it 's your call as the owner to have it placed on a chart . Pretty cool . More : <URL>
This varies from country to country but here in the US the Federal Aviation Regulations define the minimum safe altitudes : <URL> Except when necessary for takeoff or landing , no person may operate an aircraft below the following altitudes : ( a ) Anywhere . An altitude allowing , if a power unit fails , an emergency landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface . ( b ) Over congested areas . Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons , an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the aircraft . ( c ) Over other than congested areas . An altitude of 500 feet above the surface , except over open water or sparsely populated areas . In those cases , the aircraft may not be operated closer than 500 feet to any person , vessel , vehicle , or structure . ( d ) Helicopters , powered parachutes , and weight-shift-control aircraft . If the operation is conducted without hazard to persons or property on the surface -- ( 1 ) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) of this section , provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA ; and ( 2 ) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( c ) of this section . In your case , the sea-planes can fly closer than regulated since it falls under the " Except when necessary for takeoff and landing " clause . These minimums apply in all air spaces however different airspaces surrounding cities ( typically Class B and Class C ) may prevent you from ever getting within 1000ft ( or even a few miles ) of the city due to clearance . For example you ca n't get near a city under a bravo space without ATC clearance and even then you ca n't fly where you want like in other airspaces . but how is that and other private flying entities like news choppers News choppers and the like still must fly by these rules . They often compensate with bigger camera lenses . The somewhat exception to this rule is generally police , fire , and rescue/medical operation choppers/aircraft . This of course is taken on a case by case basis but ATC usually gives them precedent and clears them for whatever they ask within reason . I actually met a guy that was on the council that designed the Philadelphia Bravo Airspace . The airspace is specially designed so that the medical helicopters can take off and fly under the bravo shelf from any hospital in the city . They can do this and still be a safe distance from buildings as well . and ad-banner planes governed ? Banner towing planes , like helicopters must also fly by these rules . Although they are not seen in cities all too often I generally see them at the beach . Although beaches are generally not defined as a congested area and generally the planes are flying over " open water " thus they must be only 500ft from the people on the beach ( depending on how you interpret the law ) .
All jets require a type rating . Therefore you do n't need the complex endorsement directly ( other than needing it likely for your commercial checkride , which requires a complex aircraft ) . The historical training progression is : simple prop , complex single engine prop ( requiring the complex endorsement ) , high performance ( 200 hp + , though this one is sometimes not gotten ) , light multi-engine props , and then finally moving into heavier turboprops and then jets which require type ratings . Note , my answer is FAA specific , and other agencies might have different rules/interpretations for this issue .
As Andy pointed out , this question is very broad ( even if we 're only talking about India ) . Your starting point should be <URL> because they can tell you definitively what would be involved in getting a " homebuilt " aircraft approved to fly under Indian law . <URL> and is broadly similar to the FAA 's " Experimental : Amateur-Built " certification requirements : The aircraft needs to be constructed in accordance with the DGCA 's acceptable methods , techniques , and practices . Basically this means you ca n't use chewing gum as a structural fastener : The aircraft needs to be safe to fly . The aircraft will be inspected by a DGCA representative prior to being allowed to fly . Note that the DGCA inspection is mainly looking for " obviously unsafe " conditions - they do n't do a teardown inspection so if you used chewing gum as a structural fastener and subsequently that area is covered up by a wing skin the inspector wo n't know , but you will when the wing falls off on your test flight . You will need the DGCA to issue you a Certificate of Airworthiness before you can fly the aircraft around - that certificate is contingent on completing required test flights at the airport where the aircraft is based/built . You will need an appropriate pilot 's license ( and medical certificate if applicable ) in order to fly the aircraft ( this is also required to conduct the Certificate of Airworthiness test flights mentioned previously ) .
Blades of wind turbines , airplanes and helicopters are essentially the same . They are all wings , roughly to do the same job . However , each one is designed or enhanced to do their special job . The differences can be : Number of revolutions Wing span Rate of flow Tip speed Density of medium Material Load Turbine blades are designed to move in large volumes of rather slow moving air ( usually 10-30 mph ) and not create turbulence that fouls the next blade . Aircraft propellers are designed to move high velocity air and avoid the turbulence by moving out of the way . Wind turbines use blade pitch to adjust the rotation speed and the generated power . Wind turbine 's control system adjusts the blade pitch to keep the rotor speed within operating limits as the wind speed changes . In aircraft , blade pitch is usually described as " coarse " for a coarser angle , and " fine " for a finer .
To my knowledge the M2 uses a Williams FJ-44 engine which has a starter generator on it . My recollection is that it is a 200A 28VDC starter-generator ( SG ) which is directly connected to the accessory drive ( along with the oil pump ) . If 24-28VDC is applied to it , it will start turning the turbine , for starting the engine . At a certain point , once the engine starts , it is switched so that no power goes into it , and instead power is derived from it to charge the battery and provide gen power to the bus . <URL> A typical engine starter configuration is shown above , and is common in smaller turbine engines . Note that the starter generator functions as an electric motor , and also as a power source . ( Ignore the circuitry for ignition , throttle relays , etc. ) The SG is NOT an AC generator as is common on transport sized aircraft . It is also NOT an alternator , as is common to piston engine aircraft . You may find the descriptions in this manual <URL> . helpful in general understanding of SG operation . Some of the terms vary from SG vendor to SG vendor , but in general , they are DC motors , and when electric power is removed from them , and they are spinning , they will produce power . Some are self excited with residual magnetism and others utilize an internal circuit to take the small power created by residual magnetism to create a stronger field to create a larger output power from the generator . Having said all of this , normally a field excitation coil , is the name attributed to an alternator field , which is a magnetic field created by current ( not residual magnetism , and not a permanent magnet ) . An alternator creates AC internally ( not DC like a SG ) and is then rectified by diodes which are almost always integral to the alternator . The alternator is usually a three phase device and will have 3 or 6 diodes for rectification . Alternators tend to be less than 150 amps , where SGs are typically 200 to 300 amp devices . If the SG model is provided , perhaps a refined response is possible .
No polarizing glasses , they make reading anti-glare instruments difficult and sometimes even limit your outside view if the cockpit windows are polarized as well . Good fit , you do n't want to loose them in the slightest of turbulence . Consider fitting a strap so you can temporarily hang them around your neck . They also need to be comfortable if you wear a headset over them . Neutral colour ( grey , grey-green , brown ) of the lenses , which does not distort the natural colours too much as that would make distinguishing navigation lights more difficult . Actually the FAA have published a <URL> which covers many aspects .
It 's not a printing error . FAA sectional charts are updated only once every six months . In order to to reduce the number of NOTAMs due to sectional changes ( which can number in the hundreds between cycles ) , the FAA provides a section in the Airport Facility Directory ( AFD ) , titled " Aeronautical Chart Bulletin " that identifies changes that have occurred since a chart 's publication . Pilots should check this section on each AFD update for changes on their intended route of flight . Once the change is posted in the AFD , the respective NOTAM is taken down . Here is an image of the applicable AFD page for Salinas , as of the date of this answer :
A diverse departure is a default departure procedure , named " omnidirectional " by ICAO . To answer your question : It is normally not published . The only thing that is required on aeronautical publications is a wording preventing or limiting the use of this procedure . BUCKLEY AFB ( KBKF ) , AURORA , CO TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES 11013 Diverse departure not authorized . Use published departure procedures for obstacle avoidance . Sometimes there is a reminder that it can be used : CANNON AFB ( KCVS ) , CLOVIS , NM TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES ORIG 15064 Diverse departure authorized all runways . This default procedure is valid only when : Not explicitly prohibited , There is at least one instrument approach for the airport No obstacle departure procedure ( ODP ) and No standard departure ( SID ) has been published for the airport . A diverse departure is conducted this way : Cross the runway end at 35 ft , maintain heading and a 200 ft/NM gradient until 400 ft above the runway end . The 200 ft/NM gradient is TERPS ' minimum climb gradient , and corresponds to ICAO 's 3.3 % for the minimum procedure design gradient . Continue or turn in any direction while maintaining a minimum rate of climb of 200 ft/NM . Maintain this rate of climb until reaching a 1,000 ft obstacle clearance or a 2,000 ft obstacle clearance in mountainous areas . <URL> <URL> The 40:1 ratio ( 152 ft/NM ) delimits a surface from the runway end , named the obstacle clearance surface ( OCS ) . The diverse departure ensures being above the OCS until enroute . Whenever the conditions exist for a diverse departure , it is implicit ATC authorities have assessed the absence of obstacle above the OCS . This assessment is named the diverse departure assessment . Given the 40:1 slope and obstacle clearances , the area assessed may have a radius from 25 to 46 NM .
In Canada ( and I believe similarly in the United States ) , there are four ratings which can be applied to an Air Traffic Controller license : Airport Control Terminal Control Area Control Oceanic Control Within each of those ratings , the responsibilities are sub-divided a bit based on operational needs . For example , controllers at a tower ( with an ' Airport Control ' rating ) would tend to be qualified in all aspects of tower operations including : Clearance Delivery ( issuing IFR clearances or assigning transponder codes ) Ground Control ( issuing clearances for aircraft to move to/from the apron and runway areas via a taxiway system Air Control ( issueing clearances to aircraft in the runway environment and in the vicinity of the airport ) Terminal Controllers ( if a terminal control area exists around the airport in question ) would be responsible for flights in the immediate vicinity of the airport to approximately 20-50 nautical miles . Their responsibilities may include multiple small airports , just a single large airport , or even just one specific operation at an airport ( such as arrival control or departure control ) . These controllers are usually allowed to apply a smaller amount of lateral separation between aircraft due to the dense nature of the terminal environment and the specific nature of their role . Once the aircraft leave the terminal ( if one exists ) , the Area Controller-sometimes called enroute control-takes over . They are responsible for anywhere between several hundred square miles of airspace to over several thousand square miles in the case of sectors in northern Canada . In the case of an aircraft transiting the ocean , a specific type of area controller called an Oceanic Controller takes over . They possess slightly different training in order to safely separate aircraft over the ocean in non-radar airspace .
The certification specification for aircraft are deliberately a bit vague on the topic . This allows manufacturers to come up with creative solutions that may have been prohibited if specific angles where required in the specification . For large aircraft , EASA has requirements CS25 .773 in the <URL> which is included below this answer . The FAA requirements are similar in FAR 25.773 . To make sure that there is an agreed standard on what is acceptable to the certifying authorities , acceptable means of compliance have been published . Manufacturers may deviate from the AMC 's if they have good arguments for it . An example of the FAA AMC on this topic can be found in <URL> . The FAA document refers to standard <URL> which is the successor of <URL> ( unfortunately you have to pay for these documents ) . From <URL> and the image there contained , you can see how the outside visual field of view of the cockpit of the A320 family compares to the 580B standard . <URL> CS 25.773 Pilot compartment view ( See AMC 25.773 ) a ) Non-precipitation conditions . For nonprecipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any manoeuvres within the operating limitations of the aeroplane , including taxiing , take-off , approach and landing . ( 2 ) Each pilot compartment must be free of glare and reflection that could interfere with the normal duties of the minimum flight crew ( established under CS 25.1523 ) . This must be shown in day and night flight tests under non-precipitation conditions . ( b ) Precipitation conditions . For precipitation conditions , the following apply : ( 1 ) The aeroplane must have a means to maintain a clear portion of the windshield during precipitation conditions , sufficient for both pilots to have a sufficiently extensive view along the flight path in normal flight attitudes of the aeroplane . This means must be designed to function , without continuous attention on the part of the crew , in -- ( i ) Heavy rain at speeds up to 1 · 5 VSR1 , with lift and drag devices retracted ; and ( ii ) The icing conditions specified in Appendix C and the following icing conditions specified in Appendix O , if certification for flight in icing conditions is sought ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ) : ( A ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 1 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( B ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 2 ) , the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely operate in and the icing conditions that the aeroplane is certified to safely exit following detection . ( C ) For aeroplanes certificated in accordance with CS 25.1420 ( a ) ( 3 ) , all icing conditions . ( 2 ) No single failure of the systems used to provide the view required by subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph must cause the loss of that view by both pilots in the specified precipitation conditions . ( 3 ) The first pilot must have a window that : ( i ) is openable under the conditions prescribed in subparagraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph when the cabin is not pressurised ; ( ii ) provides the view specified in ( b ) ( 1 ) ; and ( iii ) gives sufficient protection from the elements against impairment of the pilot 's vision . ( 4 ) The openable window specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 3 ) of this paragraph need not be provided if it is shown that an area of the transparent surface will remain clear sufficient for at least one pilot to land the aeroplane safely in the event of - ( i ) Any system failure or combination of failures , which is not , Extremely Improbable in accordance with CS 25.1309 , under the precipitation conditions specified in sub-paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) of this paragraph . ( ii ) An encounter with severe hail , birds , or insects ( See AMC 25.773 ( b ) ( 4 ) ) . ( c ) Internal windshield and window fogging . The aeroplane must have a means to prevent fogging to the internal portions of the windshield and window panels over an area which would provide the visibility specified in sub-paragraph ( a ) of this paragraph under all internal and external ambient conditions , including precipitation conditions , in which the aeroplane is intended to be operated ( See AMC 25.773 ( c ) ) . ( d ) Fixed markers or other guides must be installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for an optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan . If lighted markers or guides are used they must comply with the requirements specified in CS 25.1381 . Many aircraft have eye position gauges in the cockpit that pilots can use to adjust their seat for optimal view . They either try to line up little colored balls or look through a small sight . Here are a few ex
I 'm going to explain this for the Airbus ( also known as the Cockpit Door Locking System or CDLS ) : How exactly does the person on the inside " cancel the unlock process " ( Press a button , flip a switch , enter " counter code " , etc. . . ) If the code is entered for an emergency external opening , the pilot has 30 seconds after the request period to toggle the door button to lock to deny the request or the door will unlock . It pops back the the ' Norm ' position automatically . It seems there is a delay before the door opens . Is this correct ? What 's the duration of the delay ? 30 seconds , unless the lock button is pushed , in which case the request is inhibited for 5 minutes . What are the " authority levels " of codes ? Which levels exist , what do they mean ? What is the confidentiality policy regarding those codes in theory and practice ? ( Who gets what authority level code officially ? If stewards/stewardesses are not allowed to have the codes do pilots usually pass them on anyways ? ) There are indeed two codes , but I believe the normal access one is optional . The ( optional ) normal code just chimes the cockpit for an opening request , while a secret code to the best of my knowledge is shared among the crew to request emergency access . " There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request . " These are however internal airline policies and differ from airline to airline , and I 've read in some cases that they might even have the same emergency code across the fleet . In any case , the pilot ( s ) can still decline access . Here is a <URL> as well . <URL> , Page 37 onwards . While the source suggests that the time can be changed , most sources I 've read refer to 5 minutes and 30 seconds as the standard times .
With larger wings comes more drag . True , because the drag is a function of the wing area A : $ $ D = C_D \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho \ cdot V ^ 2 \ cdot A $ $ You need a certain wing area to support the weight of the aircraft . Now the question is : over how many wings will we distribute this wing area ? For over 80 years , the answer has been : one wing ( the two wing halves make up one wing ) . The classical biplane is a thing of the past , however there have been incredibly clever aircraft builders who have looked at the long coupled canard configuration . This one really makes a lot of sense : <URL> Image <URL> So to answer your question : there are aircraft with two wings . It 's just that people do n't buy them , and go for boring old Cessna 's instead .
I did all my training in PA-28 's ( Warrior and Archer II mainly ) and here is my advice ) First off , practice makes perfect in all cases here . Second , I am not a CFI and you should ALWAYS seek the experience of a CFI to help you learn how to fly properly . Discuss everything with your CFI before trying anything . The PA-28 is one of the most benign airframes and even in the bumpiest the bumpiest of conditions you can fly it by the numbers every time . Floating on landing is generally caused by ( in my experience ) 2 things . Excessive speed on final - Remember you will only land nicely once you have gotten rid of all excess speed . This happens during your round-out and flare to landing . On a short field even a perfect landing will take up more runway if you are overspeed since you need to bleed that speed off . Ballooning - This is generally a result of over speed and over flaring . Since the PA-28 is a low wing ( compared to the high wing of the C172 ) an over-flare to early will cause significant ballooning as you effectively bounce off the ground effect . A proper timed round out and flare will come in time . One thing you can do to mitigate this ( and I found this helped as a student pilot for me ) is to fly a longer final leg ( and thus a longer downwind ) . When I was learning to fly a stable approach it took time for me to get the settings in and really nail the approach . A longer final will help you settle the plane into place as a student and really nail a maneuver like this . Generally tight patterns are taught but if its safer and better for you to fly a longer final and nail the maneuver , do it . In the PA-28 's you can ( and should ) be right on 65 kts when doing a soft field . Practice descending at a constant airspeed at altitude with your instructor . 500ft/min right on 65Kts with full flaps , then come back into the pattern and use what you learned to come in right as you should . Cut the power a bit earlier . Generally you are most likely taught to cut the power over the numbers and touch down at the markers . In a short field situation you can cut the power a bit earlier , pitch down to keep you speed up , and touch down right on the numbers . <URL> Train at an actual short field ( or as short as you are allowed to fly ) . My flight school generally had us going between 5000ft airports with 2 runways ( we were based at KPNE ) . Crosswinds were never really an issue and runway length left plenty of margin for error . My instructor made it a point to take me to 3000 X 60 fields to really get practice in ( the shortest the fligh schools insurance would cover ) . Depending on where you are training out of this may not be an issue . One more general habit of new pilots is over correcting and getting your self into an increasingly corrective state . This happens both laterally and vertically but in your case the vertical over correction is going to be the killer . If you are comming in and notice that you are low you add power , pitch up a bit and now you are too high . You pull power and pitch back down but this builds up some speed . Now you find your self over correcting all over the place to get back to a stabilized aproach . This is where the long final will help . You need to really get the plane on that 65Kt mark , trim it off , leave the power alone and fly it in . If you get bumped by a gust or a thermal wait a second and see if the termal settles then and only then should you come in with a small correction .
Flying cars will need to be regulated by both the FAA and the DOT as per current laws here in the US . For what its worth flying cars are really more like road capable airplanes . When the car is airborne it will be subject to the regulations set fourth by the FAA for the airspaces it passes through and maneuvers it makes . When the car is on the road it will be subject to vehicular laws that any other car would see . That being said there is room for change here and who knows what rules may be passed in the future . There is also some grey area around things like landing in a parking lot , folding up your wings and driving away as well as the reverse case . The rules that currently govern aviation are more than capable of handling flying cars , even if they start taking off from peoples driveways . The larger issue is licensing the pilots . A drivers license is pretty easy to come by here in the states while a PPL or sport pilots license takes quite a bit of time . Everyone that currently would want a flying car would need both a drivers license and a pilots license of some form . As far as I know the FAA makes the rules for any and all altitudes . While some airspaces ( class G ) may be unregulated they are still considered from the ground up . There is no minimum altitude at which FAA regulations do n't apply and its far from a free for all in the skys the way it is on the roads in a manner of speaking . Flying cars could potentially cause an increase in air traffic however the advantage of a plane ( over driving ) is generally speed . Until someone can build a car that can do 80MPH consistently on the road and a formidable 130Kts ( and thats the slow end of planes ) through the air the use case is pretty small . One of the biggest preventers in the whole flying car situation is the engine its self . Car engines fit quite a different role than aircraft engines . The similarities end basically at the fact they are both piston engines . Some car engines have been put in planes ( Mooney/Porsche PFM 3200 ) and in the end they are generally not great planes . You can find a <URL> . You also need to keep in mind that anyone who will be fixing these vehicles will need to be an A&amp;P licensed mechanic . There are a few companies with some cool animations of future products and even a few test rigs that have been built but to date the engineering is just not really there . Chances are it will be <URL> let alone creating major air traffic issues . For the 279,000 a Terrafugia will cost you , you could buy a Used Piper Arrow ( in great shape ) and a Porsche and still have 79,000 left over for a hanger to keep them in ...
end question
start question
How are flight schedules displayed without ambiguity on DST change days ?
It 's only really ambiguous once a year , when moving from summer time to winter time and the hour is ' repeated ' - in this case , departures and arrivals are scheduled in the ' first ' instance of the hour . On the other shift , the hour is ' lost ' so the departure takes place later . In practice , no planes are scheduled to arrive or depart in this missing hour , and since almost all nations make the change in the middle if the night when airspace is very quiet and most airports have no departures at all there is virtually no knock-on effect . Arrivals arrive when they arrive , departures are simply scheduled for a ' real ' hour , if there are even departures at all at that time of day anyway . Note that this is only for passenger scheduling - in air traffic control etc all times are Zulu ( UTC ) which has no ambiguity .
Having flight training has no effect at all on your visa status . It 's actually the other way around : your visa status can determine <URL> . But you can definitely get flight training with an H1B . And flying has no special impact on your job : how you choose to spend your free time is none of your employer 's business . There could be some very specific scenarios where flight training and work intersect , e.g. if your company is in the aviation sector you might be able to get them to pay for training . Or if you 're a very senior executive at a very large company then the Board of Directors might have concerns about you spending your time on ' risky ' activities . But otherwise , flying has nothing at all to do with your work .
Twin enigned aircrafts without counter-rotating propellers A great many twins do n't have counter-rotating props : One such aircraft is the BeechCraft Baron 58 , as seen in <URL> . Another aircraft I can think of is the King Air 350 . It is not any more or less common to have one or the other . Contra-rotating propellers Another interesting solution to the P-factor ( prop pulling towards one direction ) , especially on single engine aircraft is contra-rotating props , two propellers on the same shaft that spin in opposite directions . This is mainly for single engine racer aircraft , but there are multi-engine aircraft known to have it , such as the Soviet Tu-95 Bear bomber . The pic shown here is a Spitfire Mk . XIV : A better explanation of the P-factor P-factor is the term for asymmetric propeller loading , that causes the airplane to yaw to the left when at high angles of attack . Assuming a clockwise rotating propeller it is caused by the descending right side of the propeller ( as seen from the rear ) having a higher angle of attack relative to the oncoming air , and thus generating a higher air flow and thrust than the ascending blade on the left side , which at the other hand will generate less airflow and thrust . This will move the propellers aerodynamic centre to the right of the planes centreline , thus inducing an increasing yaw moment to the left with increasing angle of attack or increasing power . With increasing airspeed and decreasing angle of attack less right rudder will be required to maintain coordinated flight .
It 's only really ambiguous once a year , when moving from summer time to winter time and the hour is ' repeated ' - in this case , departures and arrivals are scheduled in the ' first ' instance of the hour . On the other shift , the hour is ' lost ' so the departure takes place later . In practice , no planes are scheduled to arrive or depart in this missing hour , and since almost all nations make the change in the middle if the night when airspace is very quiet and most airports have no departures at all there is virtually no knock-on effect . Arrivals arrive when they arrive , departures are simply scheduled for a ' real ' hour , if there are even departures at all at that time of day anyway . Note that this is only for passenger scheduling - in air traffic control etc all times are Zulu ( UTC ) which has no ambiguity .
To get an idea of the maximum forces , look at the certification limits . <URL> gives the limits for GA aircraft and <URL> those for larger aircraft including airliners . If these forces would be exceeded , even when something has failed , the aircraft would not be certified . The short-term limits in pitch are : 60 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 50 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 75 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The short-term limits in roll are : 30 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 25 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 50 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The maximum force limits for prolonged application are much lower again .
Depending on where you are it will take around 4 hours to 3 days , if the location is know . Depending on how remote your location is , and if the SAR team knows your location ( Sometimes forgotten by pilots after a emergency landing . ) . If the location is n't known , the search can take up to 2 weeks , finding you and your passengers dead . Let 's say temperature is -10 degrees Celsius , it will take around 1-3 hours without any clothing or external heat source ( like a camp-fire ) to start hypothermia . Although the critical point of Hypothermia is 25 degrees Celsius , people survived 14 degrees Celsius . The best thing you can do during this plane crash is stay closely together and if possible start a camp-fire . Drink hot water ( just take some ice and put it on the fire ) with a lot of sugar ( or anything else that gives you energy ) and just do anything to keep yourself heated until help arrives . If possible , keep the navigation lights , strobe lights on of the plane until battery runs out of fuel . This increases the chance being found in time .
Do n't use the autopilot , use the trim , and look outside ! Fixating on the instruments will not make you better . Know the sight picture out the windshield and what wing looks like in relation to the horizon . Set 25 ' altitude brackets and 2 ° heading brackets and hold yourself to them . It 'll seem impossible but you 'll get better . Set those brackets with the intent to hold them by looking outside , not chasing needles in the cockpit . Fly using the actual horizon as your reference , which is safer anyway , and make minor adjustments based on a periodic instrument scan that should become less and less frequent as you get better ( think 10-15sec between scans to start ) . Hold heading based on distant objects , not the compass or DG . Finally , use the trim . If it takes more than two fingers to adjust pitch , you are not trimmed . If you fly a plane with a trim wheel between the seats get used to resting your hand on it . Every time you change the power setting , retrim . In an updraft ? Retrim . Down draft ? Retrim . It 'll become second nature in no time .
1 : Do pilots eat during flight or they wait until they are back on the ground ? As pilots happen to be humans , their metabolism works in a similar fashion as yours or mine work . So they eat when they are hungry . On a long flight , they can eat during the flight , but on short flights ( e.g. 30 minutes - 2 hours ) , they might not get enough free time to have a meal . On busy days , pilots may not get enough time to have proper meals , so they try to eat small meals containing more nutrition . This is detailed in an article on <URL> . They also avoid heavy meals before a flight . 2 : Do they get the same food that is served to the passengers or do they bring their own meal ? Most of the time , food served to the passengers is the same which is served to the pilots , although they do n't <URL> . An airline <URL> that : ... the pilot gets the first class meal and the copilot the business class meal .
Since you are trying to understand how the crew is aware of law reconfiguration , it 's important to look at this event in its context , why it does happen and what are the consequences for the control of the aircraft . You may skip this overview and go to the direct answer to your question which is in the last section of this post . Flight control system and computers The crew and the FMGS ( autopilot ) send commands to redundant computers : 2x ELAC ( elevator aileron computer ) for elevators/THS and ailerons , 3x SEC ( spoilers elevator computer ) for elevators/THS and spoilers , 2x FAC ( flight augmentation computer ) for rudder , and computers send commands to actuators . <URL> <URL> . When the system is fully functional , all computers work using a normal law and it provides protection against : excessive pitch and roll attitude , high-angle-of-attack , high-speed and low energy , excessive load factor . This can be done by receiving aircraft dynamic data from multiple sensors visible in the diagram . If a flight control computer fails ( or stop receiving required data ) , the crew receives an indication on the overhead panel : <URL> <URL> <URL> . When one or several of those computers fails , the role of the remaining ones are redistributed . Reconfiguration of the computers The failure of an element of the flight control system needs that other available elements compensate for the missing computer or peripheral . This reconfiguration allows available computers to control an additional axis using other laws . However departing from the normal law for an axis means losing one or more of the protections available under the normal law . Degraded laws are : alternate law ( two levels : With and without reduced protections ) , direct law ( no protection ) , mechanical ( mechanical linkage between controls and control surfaces ) . The mechanical mode is a backup mode to control the tail surfaces from the pedals and the pitch trim wheels in case something prevent actuators to work ( e.g. loss of all electric power sources before the RAT is deployed ) . <URL> Source : <URL> Alternate and direct control laws modify the relation between the stick movement and the flight control movement ( linearity and amplitude ) . Effect of pitch axis alternate law in different phases of flight After the flight control system has transitioned to an alternate law , some protection may be available , but law may also transition again according to events representative of the different phases of the flight . Here is what happens around alternate law on pitch axis , which a change to direct law as the landing gear is extended : <URL> Source : <URL> A very degraded flight control system : Direct law While alternate law on a given axis still maintains ( under some conditions ) some level of flight envelope protection , this protection is lost when degrading to direct law . According to the axis , the direct law impacts are : Pitch : The stick commands linearly elevators movement , automatic pitch trim is unavailable , all pitch protections are lost as well as alpha-floor . Roll : The stick commands linearly surface movement , but overall amplitude is different according to slats/flaps status , only ailerons and spoilers 4/5 are used ( all spoilers if ailerons fail ) . Yaw : Mechanical control using the pedals , yaw dumping and turn coordination unavailable . Permanent indications on PFD Green $ \ sf \ scriptstyle \ color { green } { \ text { = } } $ indicate active protections : Bank angle ± 67 ° , pitch angle at 15 ° nose down and 30 ° nose up . On the speed scale , speed limits for alpha protection . Loss of protections after the degradation from normal law is indicated by amber $ \ sf \ color { orange } { \ text { x } } $ . <URL> Source : <URL> When the direct law is in effect for pitch the amber warning $ \ sf \ scriptstyle \ color { orange } { \ text { USE MAN PITCH TRIM } } $ is displayed below the lines of the flight mode annunciator . In addition if the law transitions to mechanical backup ( which is supposed to be a transitory state ) , a red $ \ sf \ scriptstyle \ color { red } { \ text { MAN PITCH TRIM ONLY } } $ replaces the amber indication . General alerts Audio chimes are triggered at the time of a component failure , when the mode changes . Alerts also activate either of the overall alerting lights ( master warning and/or master caution ) . ECAM messages Failures and law activation trigger messages on the ECAM , with suggestions for crew actions . <URL> <URL> . However , and this was noted by investigators on AF447 accident , ECAM messages can be shown or hidden in the scrollable list according to messages priorities , due to the high number of messages that may appear in a short period of time during such sequences of events : <URL> <URL> .
Skimming <URL> : The most consistent way to show up on FlightAware is to have your flight worked by ATC ( a squawk code and an IFR flight plan ) , or to fly an airplane equipped with ADS-B Out . FlightAware <URL> unless they have ADS-B Out : some VFR aircraft with flight following are available on the position maps but it largely unreliable You can block your tail number <URL> . Both the FAA and FlightAware operate block lists .
No clearance is issued without the pilot requesting it . But a request is not just something you do on the radio . The interesting questions here is : how do pilots request something ? The most common way is through a flight plan . By filing a flight plan , the pilot details the planned flight , from departure to destination , via a predefined route , with a requested speed and level . ATC will issue a flightplan clearance prior to departure or prior to entering controlled airspace . This covers the general flight , and basically lets the flight take place . During the flight , specific details need to be requested by the pilot - such as taxi - but only if the controller is not already aware that the flight is ready for whatever it is they are requesting . For example , during radar vectors for approach , ATC already knows that the flight is requesting approach at their destination ( since the destination is noted in the flightplan ) , so ATC will clear the flight for approach without needing the pilot to explicitally request it . Same goes for landing clearance . The pilot does not have to explicitally say " request to land " , because this is already a part of the flight plan . ATC will automatically issue a landing clearance when appropriate . ATC can issue instructions or clearances to flights that deviate from their flightplan if needed for safety or efficiency reasons . For example , ATC may instruct a flight to change level due to traffic ahead on the same level . But the flight plan is always the basis for all clearances .
<URL> is how the helicopter flies in most situations . It flies similar to an airplane in this situation , with pitching up and down to increase and decrease airspeed . This is controlled by use of forward and aft cyclic . Straight flight is where the tail rotor is set so that it opposes the turning tendency of the main rotor . This essentially prevents the helicopter from yawing while in flight . This is controlled by using the anti-torque pedals . Level flight is simply when the helicopter is flying at a constant altitude . This does not mean , however that its nose is pointed ahead , or that it is flying forward , merely that it is not gaining or losing altitude . I 'm not sure exactly what cruise flight is . When a helicopter is " cruising " , it most likely is maintaining altitude and flying straight ahead , but I do n't think there is a separate term for it .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
Yes , there are runways numbered on only one side . For example , the third runway in the Frankfurt Airport ( 18 , Runway west ) is used only for takeoffs ( to the south ) and not for landings . Hence only number 18 is used . The other runways are used for both takeoffs and landings and are numbered 07C/25C , 07R/25L and 07L/25R . <URL> Thomas Römer / OpenStreetMap data [ <URL> ] , <URL> This restriction is due to the fact that it will interfere with the traffic in other runways . <URL> Number 36 is not painted .
Even without instrument error , IAS does not equal CAS . This because there are two kinds of errors that make up the difference between Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) and Calibrated Airspeed ( CAS ) Installation error Instrument error Installation error is basically a pressure error . Airspeed measurement is a measure of dynamic pressure of the undisturbed airflow . When the pitot tube is not placed directly into undisturbed airflow the IAS will not equal the CAS . Another source of installation error are leaks in the pitot system . Instrument error is the error introduced by ASI itself by transforming the pressure to a speed indication . For example calibration errors of the pressure sensor or excessive friction in the mechanical drive system of the dial fall into this category . The POH in your example assumes no Instrument error , but is corrected for installation error . An implicit assumption is made that there are no leaks in the system , so the POH corrects for airflow disturbances . That is why some aircraft have different tables for different configurations ; the configurations affect the airflow around the pitot tube . In aircraft equipped with electronic Air Data Computers ( ADC 's ) the installation error is sometimes automatically corrected by making use of angle of attack sensors , electronic configuration information and lookup tables .
Accessing hydraulic lines &amp; resevoirs is perfectly straightforward in plenty of aircraft -- the C-130 as one example . With crew chiefs &amp; their tools &amp; spare parts on board , a temp repair on a hydraulic line would be possible . Highly unusual , but possible . Spare fluid is common enough to have on-board to replenish the resevoirs . However , access to the tires ... Nope . I ca n't think of anything where you could do that , and it would have to be a designed-in capability . Typically , crew-accessible areas are pressurized , but where the wheels retract , are n't . You have things like access to unpressurized bomb bays , and in unpressurized aircraft that 's not a barrier , but still ... If there are designs where the crew can access the tires in flight , I 'm not picturing them . As noted elsewhere , landing with a flat tire is n't typically a big deal .
Engine thrust is measured in flight by EPR - Engine Pressure Ratio . EPR is the ratio of the turbine exhaust pressure divided by the pressure measured at the fan or inlet . Indeed this is the measure used for a number of engines for setting thrust . More detailed airborne testing of engines is done during development , most manufacturers have airborne testbeds . The parameters recorded here probably measure in the hundreds or even thousands ...
Airline food is usually <URL> and loaded on the aircraft , where it is reheated and served . In some cases , the food is half-prepared on ground and completed in air ( in onboard ovens ) . However , in some cases ( Emirate Airlines , for example ) business class customers can have ( some type of ) food prepared in-flight .
There are n't temporary flight corridors , but during emergencies , the FAA will issue temporary flight restrictions ( TFRs ) , many of which include the following text : ALL AIRCRAFT ENTERING OR EXITING THE TFR MUST BE ON A DISCRETE CODE ASSIGNED BY AN AIR TRAFFIC ... AIRSPACE CONTROL ( ATC ) FACILITY AIRCRAFT MUST BE SQUAWKING THE DISCRETE CODE AT ALL TIMES WHILE IN THE TFR . ALL AIRCRAFT ENTERING OR EXITING THE TFR MUST REMAIN IN TWO-WAY RADIO COMMUNICATIONS WITH ATC . The controllers will then direct traffic in , out , and within the area as needed . Also , remember that aircraft separation is by altitude as well as position , and nothing prevents a controller from using all the altitudes in her airspace to vector aircraft in one direction . When assigning an altitude that contradicts the hemispherical rules , ATC will use the words " wrong way " to make sure you understand you are being given an altitude inappropriate for your direction of travel .
The thrust variation with altitude would be highly engine specific , but the general trend is nicely depicted in the image below : <URL> this for further details .
end question
start question
How do modern helicopters tackle Vortex Ring State ?
There 's an interesting article on the hazards at <URL> . The avoidance tactic mentioned in that article is to avoid rapid descents at low forward airspeed - this would seem sensible as that 's where the rotors will be exposed to their own downwash . And the preferred reaction also described there is to use the cyclic to fly forwards , to move into less disturbed air . ( I have heard that another cause of the condition is flying into narrow spaces among tall buildings , but unfortunately I have n't been able to find a reference . )
Adding to <URL> , a Defense study -- <URL> -- showed that : ... the precision of movement of the hand and fingers decreases as an unsupported arm is extended . As helicopters need more precise and constant inputs than fixed-wing aircraft , having your arm rest on your thigh is better in terms of comfort and precision .
<URL> Passive reduction techniques involve designing the powerplant , transmission , gearbox and particularly the rotor ( s ) to minimize vibration . Designers carefully arrange all the moving parts to be as closely balanced as possible . They can be mounted using flexible parts and springs to damp vibrations ( the same principle behind the shock absorbers in an automobile ) . The sophistication of helicopter design has evolved over time as engineers learn more about the characteristics of helicopters and how mechanical parts behave . Computer-assisted design has also allowed for huge improvements here as moving parts can be simulated in great detail to optimize each individual part for minimum vibration . Active systems work by using accelerometers to sense the vibration of the helicopter at certain points in real time . This data is then used to shake a reaction mass back and forth to create vibration opposite to that of the rest of the helicopter . The two opposite vibrations cancel each other out . Effectively , the active system is using electrical power to dump all of the vibration energy in the helicopter into a small mass , so the helicopter stays still while the reaction mass in the active system shakes to absorb the energy . Such systems are already in common use in large transport helicopters and are becoming more prevalent in smaller helicopters as well .
Does the pilot flying have to manually " push the button " on the control panel ? It 's automatic , with a manual changeover button available to the pilots as shown below ( label no. 2 ) . <URL> How does the aircraft know when the transition should happen ? When the target climb indicated airspeed ( IAS ) equals the target climb Mach number , the changeover takes place , usually around FL260 . Likewise for the descent . The target speeds are managed by the FMS and can be changed . <URL> Image shows the <URL> . ( 3 ) Displays computed values or manually entered values for the selected mode .
A single engine plane can suffer from control problems due to torque . An early famous example was the <URL> As others have pointed out , torque effects have to be countered using the normal aerodynamic controls available to the pilot . Some aircraft had extra-large ailerons because of this issue . <URL>
Yes , but you need <URL> . A rigid head does not have any hinges , instead , the blades flex up and down . Wings do n't know or care if they are upside down or right way up , indeed , <URL> . It only cares how much airflow there is and at what angle it hits it . Here 's an <URL> and a <URL> Perhaps the best around is <URL> Here , Dennis Kenyon shows <URL> He gets close to inverted but never actually flips over .
In modern aircraft cabin , close to half of the cabin air is recircualted . As this <URL> : The cabin air system is designed to operate most efficiently by delivering approximately 50 percent outside air and 50 percent filtered , recirculated air . The AIVC also notes in <URL> : In early commercial jet aircraft , passenger cabins were ventilated with 100 % outside air . In more recent jet aircraft , approximately 50 % of the ventilation air is outside air and the remaining 50 % is filtered recirculated cabinair . The reason for using recirculated air is quite simple - fuel savings . From the document <URL> : At the beginning of the commercial jet airliner age , jet airplanes did not have cabin air recirculation systems , ... The primary reason was that early jets were powered by highly inefficient turbojet engines . As engine technology progressed , turbofans were developed with a core bypass ratio of approximately 2 to 1 . Fuel economy improved and the cost of engine bleed air relative to overall fuel consumption was still sufficiently small to make 100 % bleed air to the passenger cabin cost effective . As modern turbofan engines with high 5 to 1 bypass ratios were developed , fuel consumption to provide engine thrust decreased . However , the fuel consumption relative to extracting bleed air dramatically increased , almost in direct proportion to the higher bypass ratio . For a 767 with P&amp;W 4000 engines , the percent increase in fuel consumption due to bleed air only would be almost four times higher than an equivalently sized turbojet for the same amount of bleed air . <URL> Increase in bleed air fuel consumption with modern jet engines ; image from <URL> by Elwood H. Hun et . al. .
Broadly speaking , radiation exposure can be mitigated in three ways : Time , Distance , and Shielding . Two of these mitigating factors ca n't really be improved : Distance and Time . For distance , the radiation exposure concern for commercial jet pilots ( and travelers ) is generally related to <URL> and ultraviolet radiation from the sun . The sources are already quite distant , and the practical distances we can achieve on Earth wo n't make any appreciable difference here , so we can neglect distance . Time ( duration of exposure ) is already somewhat limited by the duration of flights , but the cumulative effect over multiple flights is what we 're generally concerned about when we discuss " pilot 's radiation exposure " . As their career requires them to fly , and the nature of jets means they 'll be flying at high altitude there 's not much that can be done with time , except perhaps having a very short career or not accepting a large number of flights . These options are not economically attractive if flying is your career . That leaves shielding . Pilots sacrifice the benefit of shielding ( from the Earth 's atmosphere ) as they climb : The atmosphere is less dense and there is less of it between the pilot and the background radiation , therefore their exposure is increased . It 's here that improvements can at least theoretically be made : The pilots and passengers already gain some shielding from the structure of the aircraft , but not nearly as much as 30,000 feet of atmosphere provides . The aircraft could be constructed with additional radiation-shielding materials ( lead foil for example , and UV-attenuating tints in the windows ) but doing so would add a significant amount of weight . As with most radiation shielding situations it ultimately becomes an economic trade-off : You implement shielding to bring the exposure ( dose ) down to an acceptable level given the time and distance constraints you 're working within . The additional dose received by pilots <URL> , and adding shielding to reduce it further would not give a huge increase in safety . The costs ( in terms of aircraft design , construction , and operating cost to carry the additional weight ) would exceed the cost of treating the relatively minor complications such as skin cancer which may result from the additional exposure over a lifetime career of flying . If all of that was too much to read , the short answer to your question is " The best way to mitigate increased radiation exposure from flying is to remain at low altitudes . " ( Similar to how the best way to mitigate the increased radiation from living in Denver , Colorado at ~ 5,000 feet above MSL is to move to New Orleans , LA at 7 feet below MSL . ) The next best thing would be to fly less frequently or on shorter legs ( to reduce the duration of exposure ) .
Qualification : I am a master parachute rigger , taught the sport for 10 years and have packed a couple of thousand emergency parachutes . I can put an apartment-size piece of nylon into a purse in under 5 minutes , and guarantee that it will open . How nicely it opens is a different question . It usually takes about 45 minutes to service an emergency parachute - 20 minutes to inspect it , 10 to fold it up nicely , another 10 to stuff it into the pack , then the paperwork . Double that time if it 's a large 2-passenger parachute . The " fold it up nicely " part is to make it go into the pack without any unsightly bulges , and the emergency packs are never a nice open bag like the main - the canopy has to be shaped around the closing apparatus and the spring-loaded extraction chute has to fit in the middle . Very little of this process has anything to do with ensuring it opens when needed . A packer would have to be spectacularly incompetent to fold a canopy in a way that would cause it to malfunction . If you feel the fabric used to make main parachutes you will find that it is extremely slippery - good luck keeping that stuff in the proper place when it goes into the bag , but you do n't need to . These things sort themselves out quite nicely most of the time . There are two important tools used in packing emergency packs - one is appropriately called the Death Strap . It is wrapped around the middle of the canopy as you are folding it into the bag , and if you forget to remove it the canopy will not open . The other is a locking pin used to close each part of the pack in stages . Your mistake will probably make the front page of the local newspaper and involve a lot of time with your lawyer , so packers typically only own one of each and all tools are counted after each job . Going back to the incompetent packer for a moment - the main parachute is usually packed by the owner , and very occasionally you need to open and re-close the pack . If you are lazy or rushed it is very easy to close the main pack in a way that prevents it from opening . Owners ( almost ) never open their emergency packs , and riggers follow a standard process to prevent these errors from happening .
A quick check of a site like Flightradar24 will show that the area is not overly avoided . The triangle between the southern tip of Florida , Bermuda , and Puerto Rico has quite a bit of traffic . The southern part is a busy route from Florida to Puerto Rico and other areas in the Caribbean . The rest is also part of routes from the east coast to the Caribbean and South America . While the idea of an area causing mysterious disappearances is understandably popular , <URL> that the area has not been significantly more dangerous than other areas in the world . As noted , it 's an important route between Florida and the Caribbean , and one would expect lots of traffic in this area , and therefore lots of incidents . While navigation issues were once a not-infrequent cause of air incidents , modern technology has made this sort of thing much more rare . Airline flights are monitored by ATC . Anomalies in either magnetic bearings or radio aids such as VOR or GPS are routinely surveyed and listed on navigation charts . I took a quick look and nothing seemed to stand out here . Weather forecasting has also become much more helpful with the usage of long range weather radar and weather satellites . A look at <URL> shows most incidents were in the 1960s or earlier . The few recent air incidents seem to be nothing out of the ordinary . General aviation accidents are fairly common ( flying into a level 6 thunderstorm also not advised ) , and airliners divert due to technical issues <URL> . While some people may have apprehensions about the area , this concern does n't seem to be supported by a higher than normal rate of incidents and the area is routinely traveled by both ships and aircraft . <URL> From <URL> Do n't worry about that question mark , I 'm sure it 's totally routine , nothing to see here
Yes , this is possible , as demonstrated in this video from almost 2 years ago : <URL> Each helicopter probably does not weigh more than the woman being lifted . The two helicopters are tilted such that the forces are in equilibrium with no collisions . Both are coordinated as two pilots are flying these by Line-of-Sight .
To be more general , a vortex generator is a small angled plate installed on an outer surface of an aerodynamic body . The angle of the plate causes the air to swirl , creating a vortex behind it . This effect allows the air flow to remain " attached " to the surface even at points where the flow without a vortex would separate from the surface . One of the most common uses of vortex generators is on aircraft wings forward of the ailerons . When the aircraft wing <URL> , the flow detaches from the wings . This means that the flow will detach before it reaches the ailerons , making them ineffective . The use of vortex generators helps the ailerons to provide control even if the rest of the wing is stalled . <URL> Of course , these also add drag , even when the wing is not stalling , so they are only added where needed . They are also used in other places , such as the engine , as in <URL> , and also <URL> .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
Tip jet rotors are still being developed , none of them are ramjet powered as far as I know . The <URL> is tip rocket powered , while the <URL> uses air jets powered by a conventional engine . Ramjet technology has not improved , so the cases for using them on rotor tips has not changes . They are still too heavy , thirsty and noisy .
Some Airbus aircraft have this characteristic , in the rear section of the cabin floor . You can see this in the following image . The rear passenger windows slope up following the floor slope . <URL> A340 line drawings ; image from <URL> This image of the upper cargo deck of A330 MRTT upper cargo deck ( which would be the cabin floor in the passenger version ) shows the upward slope . <URL> A330MRTT cabin floor ; image from <URL> Apparently , this is a common trait in A300/310/340 / 330 's to allow more containerized cargo in the rear .
You have 3 questions here ( Or maybe 2 because the first and second are very similar ) 1 and 2 : Flares are some sort of burning compound that generates a significant amount of heat to distract ( hopefully ) an Infra-Red guided missile . They attract the IR missiles because the amount of IR energy created by them may be greater than that of the exhaust , which is what IR missiles follow . 3 The flares are deployed when the plane detects the presence of an IR missile . ( <URL> ) Once the presence of a " live " IR missile is indicated , flares are released by the aircraft in an attempt to decoy the missile ; some systems are automatic , while others require manual jettisoning of the flares . They also <URL> too .
There 's an interesting article on the hazards at <URL> . The avoidance tactic mentioned in that article is to avoid rapid descents at low forward airspeed - this would seem sensible as that 's where the rotors will be exposed to their own downwash . And the preferred reaction also described there is to use the cyclic to fly forwards , to move into less disturbed air . ( I have heard that another cause of the condition is flying into narrow spaces among tall buildings , but unfortunately I have n't been able to find a reference . )
The <URL> , in <URL> and the <URL> , explains VFR helicopter operations at controlled airports . The procedure will depend on the airport and the current traffic . Insofar as possible , helicopter operations will be instructed to avoid the flow of fixed-wing aircraft to minimize overall delays ; however , there will be many situations where faster/larger helicopters may be integrated with fixed-wing aircraft for the benefit of all concerned . Helicopters may operate from a designated helicopter landing area . The tower is responsible for separating them from other traffic . The helicopter can fly a much closer pattern than other aircraft , and may stay on the other side of the runway from the typical pattern . They may also operate straight in/out of the landing area , depending on wind and traffic . They may also be cleared to take off or land in a " nonmovement " area that is not specifically designated for that activity , which could be a ramp at the airport or a location off-airport . This will be up to the tower to provide clearance and the pilot to execute safely . Helicopters can also operate similarly to fixed-wing aircraft , taking off and landing using a runway , and following taxiways . Wheeled helicopters taxi on the ground . Otherwise , helicopters may either hover taxi , where they fly in ground effect at low speed , or air taxi , where they will fly out of ground effect up to 100 ft AGL and up to 60 kts , as directly as possible to the next point on the field , avoiding obstacles as needed . Like ratchet freak says , they will generally come in horizontally while descending , flying into the wind , and then come into hover , where they will then be instructed by the tower to taxi to wherever they are going on the field . Some airports , like in this photo of " spot Charlie " on <URL> , may have marked spots on the taxiways or non-movement areas for helicopter operations . In this case , students practicing landings and autorotations will be instructed : " Clear to land , Spot Charlie " to keep them off of the main runway 28L , while in left traffic on the opposite side of the runway of the smaller 28R . As with any aircraft , the final authority for safety is the pilot , and they must be aware of their limitations and the conditions around them . At non-towered airports , the procedures can be similar . The pilot should take the wind direction and traffic into account , and announce their intentions on the appropriate frequency .
What you 're talking about does exist , <URL> Remember that a propeller blade is just an airfoil - like a wing - and the basic aerodynamics are no different than a wing . But the rotation of the blade creates more phenomena than a wing , in particular the helicoidal vortex one sees behind the prop and causes all sorts of propeller effects . In theory , nothing would prevent us from having winglets at the prop tips : the advantages would be Making the prop more efficient by reducing the induced drag ( same as a winglet on a wing ) Reducing noise Keeping the propeller tip speed subsonic by decreasing its length The big problem is in aerodynamic stresses , and as far as I know there have been some quite spectacular failures during testing , so the solution is now to give a greater sweep to the tips ( see that as equivalent to the 777 wing tip compared to the 787 for instance ) . Try and find articles on the Hartzell Q-tip . As naval propellers are wider and capable of deealing with bigger torque stresses , modern ones do have winglets . You could find some pictures on the web .
The most relevant data I could find was located <URL> , in a study on " In-flight cabin smoke control " . In the abstract , they stated that Tests on a Boeing 757 , modified to allow smoke venting out through the top of the cabin , showed that the buoyant smoke front moved at 0.46 m/s ( 1.5 ft/sec ) with and 0.27 m/sec ( 0.9 ft/sec ) against , the axial ventilation airflow . Flight tests in a modified Boeing 727 showed that a ceiling level counterflow of about 0.55 m/sec ( 1.8 ft/sec ) was required to arrest the forward movement of buoyant smoke . A design goal of 0.61 m/s ( 2ft/sec ) axial cabin flow would require a flow rate of 99m3/min ( 3500ft ^ 3/min ) in a furnished Boeing 757 . The current maximum fresh air cabin ventilation flow is 78m ^ 3/min ( 2756 ft ^ 3/min ) . In short , during continuous generation of smoke , cabin air will not be recirculated quickly enough to stop smoke from filling the cabin ; however , if the smoke production is temporary , then it should dissipate quickly ( time of course depends on the size of the cabin and the amount of smoke produced ) . On page 2 of this <URL> , a discussion of airflow occurs and contained this image , showing circulation patterns on wide-body airliners . A linked study on that same page noted that . The paper goes on to provide more diagrams of airflow and comparisons of various effectiveness if you 're interested . Boeing has a fairly detailed summary of their cabin airflow <URL> . It says : Inside the cabin , the air flows in a generally circular patterns and exits through floor grilles on either side of the cabin and on airplanes with overhead recirculation , the air may exit through the overhead . The exiting air goes below the cabin floor into the lower lobe of the fuselage . So at least on most Boeing planes , air exits at your feet , though it can exit at the ceiling . Airbus also has a page <URL> , but with much less detail . Airbus claims a complete recirculation every 2 to 3 minutes , while Boeing merely states airflow is continuous . The article linked below says in general , airplane recirculation occurs aproximately 20 circulations per hour . An <URL> on cabin air states that to pick up a sickness , you need to be close , . The article goes on to say that : The aircraft is divided into ventilation segments of three to seven rows ; you share air only with passengers in your segment . So presumably if there were smoke , it would be captured in a small area were it not too pervasive .
end question
start question
Where does the term ' steam cockpit ' come from ?
Well , to answer your second question first : no . No aircraft instruments actually run on steam . There are lots of safety issues related to generating and using the steam on board an aircraft that are prohibitive . As far as why they are called steam gauges , take a look at one and compare it to a traditional flight instrument : <URL> <URL> They are both round , both have a calibrated scale printed on them , and both have a needle which points at the current value . They actually look pretty similar !
The same way it is done in small airplanes and older airlines -- toe brakes . The rudder pedals translate forward and back to actuate the rudder and they pivot around the lateral axis to actuate the brake system . Each pedal independently controls only the brakes on its side of the airplane ( e.g both pilots left toe brake actuates the brakes on the left main gear ) . Planes will often have an emergency or parking brake , which will be a lever somewhere that actuates the brake system . This system , outside of emergencies is only used when the plane is not moving and you want it to remain that way . Larger airplanes with also sometimes have autobrakes which provide a triggered automatic application of a certain level of braking . This kind of system is used both to provide automatic maximum braking for a rejected takeoff ( RTO ) and some lesser automatic braking upon landing rollout . To summarize , for taxi and ground movement the brake input is coming from the toe brakes . When the aircraft is stopped , brake input will be transferred from the toe brakes to the parking brake . When the plane lands , if it is so equipped and enabled , the autobrakes will begin brake application and the pilot will take over with the toe brakes and continue to use toe brakes for the taxi in .
Coded RAREPs ( Radar Weather Reports ) and SDs ( Storm Detections ) may still be used to exchange data between radar stations , but for human users they seem to have been superseded by visual displays that provide a more human-friendly visualization of the same information , such as at <URL> . The PHAK you linked to ( published in 2008 ) is likely out of date on this . ( But this is the most recent PHAK available . ) From <URL> : The NWS Aviation Weather Center ( AWC ) does n't have any links to the coded SD/ROB reports , but does link to the Radar Summary chart , which is complied from these reports . This information is also incorporated into a standard weather briefing for a particular flight plan . The DUAT system used to provide an " SD ( Radar Weather Reports ) " section in its briefings , but DUAT is no longer available . <URL> instead has a section titled " Radar Summaries " in its briefings .
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
Does this vortex draw in air from above , pulling it downward and as a result lifting the plane up ? Yes , the bound vortex in combination with translational flow accelerates air downwards . Or is the vortex shed downward off the tail of the wing ? How does this work ? A vortex has no beginning and no end . When the wing begins to move , the vortex starts out of nowhere and has four parts : The bound vortex which travels with the wing , one parallel starting vortex which stays in place and two free vortices which connect both , running from the wingtips to the point where the wingtips were when the wing started moving . To be precise , an infinite number of vortices of infinitely small strength is created , and some cover only the center of the wing while others run over most of the wingspan . <URL> Idealized vortex structure ( own work ) . The wing moves to the left with the speed v . The vortices are shown as discrete lines - to be precise , the bound vortices should be a sheet of infinitesimally small vortices which extend both over the chord and the span of the wing . Chordwise , they bunch together close to the leading edge , so their average streamwise position is at one quarter of the wing 's chord . And now let me give you my advice : If you do not want to operate or to write a potential flow code , do yourself a favor and forget all that . <URL> why you must endure the vortex explanation of lift , and <URL> for a much more intuitive explanation of it all . If by leading edge vortex you mean the <URL> , this is a result of flow separation . The inertia of the air molecules makes it impossible for them to flow around the leading edge , and they jump off the contour , leaving a volume of lower pressure behind . This pressure bends their flow path towards the wing and sucks the aircraft upwards . Since more air follows the same pattern downstream , the whole air above the wing starts to rotate while it flows downstream . This low pressure area sucks more air in from above , just like the regular low pressure region over a straight wing does . Along and past the inner part of the wing this downward motion is prevalent and keeps the air spinning like the <URL> from a straight wing .
Sometimes they do add temporary tanks . <URL> of what Hawaiian Airlines had to do to get their fleet of 717 's over the Pacific because they did not have the range . I do n't have the answer to your question specifically , but I would guess they either add temporary tanks and go from <URL> which is not much further than max-range , or take the long haul through the US and Europe . There 's a <URL> about this .
in law generally means according to a calculation or apportionment formula - in the context of the FARs that formula is generally assumed to be $ \ left ( \ frac { 1 } { nOccupants } \ right ) $ as Hugh noted . I actually went on a dive through <URL> on how they deal with the pro rata bit and found nothing applicable to this situation , so what follows is an interpretation crafted out of my own slightly deranged mind , but it seems sensible to me . Interestingly while digging around I found nothing in the FARs or interpretations that would seem to preclude <URL> for pro rata share than " divide by the number of people in the plane " , but neither is there anything I can find to support doing so , and I imagine it would be much harder to justify to your local FSDO if questions came up . For the sake of simplicity ( and our collective sanity ) let 's stick with " simple division " as the formula . The FARs specify that the pilot may not pay less than their pro rata share of operating expenses associated with the flight . So , if we have 4 occupants of the aircraft ( Mom , Dad , Baby , and Pilot ) and they go for a hundred-dollar hamburger the simple division method says pilot can not pay less than one-fourth of the operating expenses associated with the flight . If we say the expenses work out to be \ $ 100 ( for the sake of easy math ) the pilot has to pay at least \ $ 25 . The FAA does n't much care where the rest of the money comes from because it 's implicit in the regulations that the pilot is n't keeping it ( the money would be going into the hands of the FBO for fuel , oil , ramp fees , etc. ) -- Mom &amp; Dad could pay $ 37.50 each ( covering themselves plus the baby ) or split it up between themselves in any other way they wish and this is still acceptable under the regulations as long as the pilot has paid their pro rata share of the expenses . The pilot can certainly pay more than the simple-divison pro rata share of expenses ( and generally that 's the most equitable option - figure out who 's paying , divide by that number , and make sure the pilot is in the " paying " group to stay on the right side of the regulations ) . In your example you would split the cost up among the three adults ( each paying $ 33.33 , and the pilot generally kicking in the extra penny ) . The same logic in both of these arguments would apply if we were n't talking about a baby , but rather a third friend that you all decided to treat to a trip .
Water salutes are purely ceremonial and have no practical value . There are no confirmed reports on when it started in aviation , but it became common in the 1990 's . Before aviation , this practice started for ships on their inaugural voyages or returning from a long voyage . At New York harbor , jets of water were sprayed from fire boats . Commonly , water salutes are done for : first flight of an airplane first or last revenue flight of an airplane last flight of a retiring pilot carrying a fallen soldier Mostly , it attracts attention and looks cool without costing a huge amount or having anything to clean up .
Firstly : Flightdeck doors are to the best of my knowledge not hermetically sealed . Secondly : Doors will normally have one of several solutions employed to safely handle explosive decompression : Some doors have panels that pop out to equalise the pressure , especially inwards . Some doors unlock automatically in one or both directions . Needless to say , you need one solution in either direction . Whatever pressure difference there is it will most probably very quickly be equalised and there should not be any difficulty in opening the door if need be .
This stopped after the World Trade Center attacks . You might be able to get a kid in briefly before the plane takes off .
Flow separation happens when the pressure gradient of the airflow along the flow path becomes too steep . In subsonic flow , the oncoming air is first decelerated ahead of the wing , then swiftly accelerated when it flows around the strongly curved nose section of a wing . This acceleration is the consequence of the wing 's curvature . See it this way : If the airflow would be along a straight line , it would move away from the surface , creating a local vacuum . In reality , the air settles at a compromise between the straight path and following the contour , creating decreasing pressure along a surface with increasing curvature and increasing pressure along surfaces with decreasing curvature . More precisely , it is always in an equilibrium between inertial , viscous and pressure forces.This suction not only bends the airflow into following the wing 's contour , but also accelerates the air ahead of it . The lower the pressure , the more the air speeds up , such that the total energy of air ( the sum of pressure and kinetic energy ) stays constant . Therefore , pressure and local speed change in sync.When the curvature decreases further downstream , the flow path becomes straighter and pressure rises again . However , the air particles close to the wing slow down because of friction . The layer of air where this slowing is noticeable is called boundary layer . In it , the deceleration effects due to pressure rise and due to friction add up , and at some point the air comes to a standstill relative to the wing . Where this happens , static air will collect and build up , causing flow separation . Thankfully , the exchange of air across a turbulent boundary layer kicks the slowest air particles downstream , so at moderate angles of attack the air still moves along until it reaches the trailing edge . Only when the suction peak around the nose becomes very high at high angle of attack , the consequent steep pressure rise along the remaining flow path overpowers the possibilities of the turbulent boundary layer , the air decelerates completely and the flow separates . This is a wholly subsonic affair . If the wing moves at high subsonic speed , the curvature-created suction accelerates the flow such that it reaches supersonic speed . Now something odd happens : Supersonic flow accelerates further when subsonic flow would decelerate . This is caused by the change in density which is dominant at supersonic speed . Incompressible ( = very slow ) flow has constant density , and all speed changes affect pressure . At Mach 1 , the pressure and density changes are of equal magnitude , and in supersonic flow the density changes dominate . Now we have a supersonic pocket of air on the upper surface of the wing where speed increases and density decreases downstream , and the surrounding subsonic air sees little change in density . This picture should give you some idea how it looks : The whole wing moves at Mach 0.68 . Compare the green color at some distance from the wing with the scale on the left side , which gives the Mach number for each color shade . At the airfoil nose , you see a blue area . This is where the air decelerates - it gets pushed together by the approaching wing . Now follow the colors along the upper side - they quickly turn green , yellow and red as the air is accelerated into the low pressure area ( remember , low pressure equals high speed , so the reddest area has the highest local flow speed and the lowest pressure ) . In subsonic flow , the suction peak would be somewhere between 20 % and 30 % of chord , and the colors would slowly change back to yellow and green if you move further downstream . Now we have local supersonic flow ( everything redder than light orange is supersonic here ) , and instead of slowly decelerating , the air is speeding up to a maximum Mach number of 1.23 at almost 60 % of chord length.This can not last , and at some point this supersonic pocket collapses . This happens instantly in a shock , and as you know , in a straight shock density increases suddenly and speed decreases such that the <URL> . In the picture above , boundary layer effects create a lambda shock , which has its name from the Greek letter which looks like the shock pattern here . Aft of the shock , you have subsonic flow again , and a much thicker boundary layer which moves very slowly ( blue shade ) . This is due to the energy conversion through the shock , which converts kinetic energy into heat . But the flow is still attached - even this shock did not cause separation . If this pressure rise is big enough , the boundary layer will come to an instantaneous standstill , and then the flow separates . This is the shock induced separation you asked about . Unfortunately , the picture above is the best I could find , and I have none with separated flow aft of the shock . But it helps to show that the center of pressure moves aft . This causes a strong nose-down moment . Also , with higher subsonic Mach numbers directional stability decreases . Now even more nasty things can happen : The location of the sho
The cost from 0 to ATP can be highly variable . An easier number to quantify is 0 - Commercial/CFI . Even the cost of 0 - Comm/CFI can vary , but there are a few accelerated programs that offer this . One service ( I 'm not advertising , so I 'm not naming them ) offers a program that lasts 150 days and costs $ 65,000 * + checkride expenses . You start with nothing and end up with single/multi commercial , an instrument rating and your CFI/MEI/II along with 100 hours multi-engine time . This particular program ( and others like it probably ) hires their instructors from within , so there is a possibility for multi-instruction -- but you wo n't be making much money for it . The cost of commercial to ATP is harder to nail down because of the possibilities that open up post-commercial . On the high end , you could just rent or buy time to ATP mins , but that could cost a fortune . On the low end you could work to ATP mins and make some money . A good way to make money with a fresh commercial/cfi ticket is to instruct . There are also jobs like banner towing or pipeline/powerline patrol you could do , but you probably still need to build time beyond commercial mins to be competitive for those jobs . You also mention cropdusting , but keep in mind many of those ops are turbine powered ag-cats and you wo n't be competitive there with a fresh commercial ticket . * You can do it cheaper but I 'm giving these numbers because a fast but expensive program may appeal to a career changer .
No , for two reasons : Speed of sound is always relative to the material the sound propagates in ; it moves faster through denser media , such as the aluminum structure of the aircraft itself . The aircraft 's structure moves with the aircraft , so the vibrations of the jet engines will be transmitted to the cockpit/cabin at the same speed as when the airplane were flying subsonic . The air inside the cockpit is still , and so sound within this local bubble is unaffected by the speed of the bubble itself ( and so sound can travel faster than sound ) . If this were n't true then radios and other cockpit sound sources like alarms would be inaudible at supersonic speeds , which would be a major safety hazard and tactical disadvantage to supersonic flight . You actually do n't even have any significant aural cues inside the cockpit that you 've exceeded Mach 1 ; you have to rely on your airspeed gauge to tell you .
No they are not , at least not fully . There have been instances of equipment failure caused by coffee spills , resulting in the need to abort the flight . <URL> shows a flight that needed to divert because a coffee spill disabled the communication equipment . <URL> <URL> had smoke in the cockpit because the previous flight crew spilled coffee and sugar over the avionics . <URL> suffered control problems ( resulting in Dutch roll ) after a coffee spill cause a short circuit in the yaw damper . Source : Transport Accident Investigation Commission of New Zealand
On commercial aircraft the oxygen supply of the masks in the cabin comes either from a chemical oxygen generator or a centralized oxygen bottle system . The flight deck is always equipped with pressurized oxygen masks . The chemical oxygen generators generate lots of heat when they are activated . When normally placed in their overhead compartments the heat is slowly dissipated . However , oxygens generators are hazardous when canisters are not in their appropriate place . The <URL> crash into the Everglades on 11 May 1996 was caused by a fire after improperly packed oxygen generators in the cargo hold were accidentally activated . Pressurized oxygen bottles also are hazardous . Not only because the oxygen can turn a small fire into a blaze but if the high pressure bottles explode they cause substantial damage . On 25 July 2008 an oxygen bottle installed in a <URL> ruptured and propelled itself upward through the floor into the cabin .
Thrust is air mass flow multiplied by the speed difference between flight and nozzle speed of the engine . To increase thrust , subsonic engines try to maximize mass flow ( by increasing the bypass ratio ) while supersonic engines rely more on increasing the nozzle speed ( by using afterburners ) . The core engines do not differ much - after all , the intake will make sure that air reaches the engine <URL> , regardless of flight speed . The main difference is in their bypass ratio . The slower the design speed , the bigger the bypass ratio may become . At very low speed , the ungeared , shrouded fan is exchanged for a geared , free spinning propeller , in other words , the jet changes to a turboprop . The intake and nozzle , however , are very different indeed . The optimum bypass ratio changes continuously , but since the drag coefficient drops after crossing Mach 1 , airplanes are either designed for a maximum Mach number of 0.9 or less , or 1.6 and above . The corresponding bypass ratios today are up to 12 for subsonic engines , and less than 1 for supersonic engines . This produces a sharp boundary at the speed of sound , and many military engines designed for supersonic flight lost their afterburners and were fitted with a big fan to become the engines for subsonic transport aircraft . Examples are : The <URL> turbojet ( installed in the F-100 and F-102 fighters , among others ) became the JT-3D turbofan which powered the Boeing 707 or the DC-8 . The core of the <URL> ( installed in the F-15 and F-16 fighters , among others ) became the <URL> turbofan which is used in the Boeing 737 or the Airbus A320 . The differences between sub - and supersonic engines grow bigger the more you move away from their core . High-pressure compressor , combustion chamber and high pressure turbine look and work the same , but the low pressure compressor of subsonic engines swallows a lot more air and has a much bigger diameter . Supersonic engines in turn mostly have an afterburner . The biggest difference , however , are the intakes ( large pitot intake with <URL> for subsonic aircraft versus adjustable <URL> for supersonic flight ) and the nozzle ( fixed for subsonic flight versus a complex , <URL> for supersonic flight ) . This is due to the very different air speeds and the much higher exit velocities required for supersonic flight .
This depends on the aircraft . In many cases there is a tank inside the wing . In some cases it can be stored in a soft bladder in the wing and in other cases the wing its self is the tank . Here is an in wing tank <URL> Here are some in wing fuel bladders . <URL> Mooney was known for having integrated fuel tanks in their wing designs . <URL> of the tanks being resealed . They are notorious for needing a reseal every now and again but they do save in weight . Modern composite structures often do n't lend to this design as jet fuel or avgas and composites do n't really mix . <URL> Here is a nice cutaway of the A330 to show where the tanks are . <URL> It should be noted that you can generally pump fuel between the tanks however care must be taken when this is done because it can greatly effect the CG . <URL> has some really interesting information on how complex it was to manage the fuel weight on the Concorde and how it needed to be pumped around the tanks during various phases of the flight just to keep the plane stable .
Yes , I think you 're correct although the phrasing is unusual . The usual phrase is " clearance on request " , which is used for IFR departures as explained nicely in <URL> : Experienced instrument pilots know that when they call to request their clearance , the controller may not yet have received it . " Clearance on request " is ATC 's way of politely saying " I do n't have it - I 've requested it - you 'll be the first to know when I get it ! " The only FAA reference for the phrase that I could find is buried in the glossary of the <URL> : Clearance on request . An IFR clearance not yet received after filing a flight plan . But as RalphJ <URL> , if this is a VFR scenario and you needed a class B clearance and transponder code then I assume that the controller said " code on request " to let you know that he was waiting for a transponder code for you , as you assumed . It was n't an instruction as such so you could just acknowledge it with " Roger " or whatever . See <URL> for more information on that .
As soon as there 's a fire on board , the absolute top priority is getting everybody out as soon as possible . Aircraft are designed in such a way that , even after a crash landing ( or other serious malfunction ) , the passengers will have a minute or two to evacuate before conditions in the cabin become toxic ( fire , smoke , etc ) ; this is done by using flame-retardant material and burn-through protection , but in an intense fire these wo n't protect the cabin for long , and once they fail no-one will be able to survive inside the aircraft for much longer than that . Smoke inhalation and oxygen deprivation kill just as effectively as being burned . Therefore everyone has to be able to evacuate from the plane within 90 seconds , even assuming the plane is packed to the gills with passengers , and half the exits are inoperative . Given that the aircraft may be damaged after a rough/crash landing , some of the doors may be unusable ( due to fire or smoke just outside them ) , it may be dark in the cabin , and people may be injured and/or panicking , it 's vital that nothing slows down the evacuation . To get an idea of what a 90-second evacuation of a fully-loaded aircraft looks like , see the video of the <URL> - and these passengers were calm , uninjured , and prepared . If passengers take hand luggage with them this is slowed down : The time it takes to get it out of the overhead bins ( with everyone else crushing against you to get out ) . Carrying the luggage down the aisle ( without tripping , hurting yourself or anyone else - again , look at the A380 video , and imagine trying to do that with a suitcase ) . If you lose your luggage , everyone behind you will have to climb over it to get to the exit . Maneuvering your suitcase around the corner to the door , not getting it stuck on the door frame , with people behind you literally shoving you out the door . Plunging down a very steep slide the height of a two-storey building ( or more , in case of the A380 's upper deck ) at high speed , with your suitcase flailing around . At best it whacks you on the head , at worst it punctures and deflates the slide , which given the crush of passengers behind you will probably lead a few people to plummet from the aircraft doors straight to the ground . Assuming you 've made it to the ground , there is someone else plunging down the slide right behind you . If your suitcase slows you down even a little , they will plow right into you , and soon you 'll have a crush of people at the foot of the slide . In this specific case , the fire was fortunately not serious enough to defeat the cabin fire protection before the last passengers had evacuated - but as <URL> said , there are unfortunately other examples where the passengers were not so lucky . To illustrate the risk of fire after landing : <URL> ran off the runway at landing , and despite having little fuel on board , the resulting fire completely destroyed the aircraft ; luckily , everyone evacuated in time . Once there 's been a major malfunction , there is no way to tell how much time you have left to get out - fire can spread very very quickly - and so you have to get out as quickly as possible . Taking luggage with you endangers your life and that of your fellow passengers .
Apparently yes . It has been mentioned in a number of places . <URL> is pretty simple : Step 1 : Approach locked lavatory Step 2 : Lift " LAVATORY " sign Step 3 : Slide the knob into the unlocked position Thats all to it , though they may vary with the aircraft . As @RalphJ points out in the comments , it should go without saying that unless you are cabin crew , you should not be doing this .
end question
start question
Where is the fuel stored on an aircrafts wing ?
This depends on the aircraft . In many cases there is a tank inside the wing . In some cases it can be stored in a soft bladder in the wing and in other cases the wing its self is the tank . Here is an in wing tank <URL> Here are some in wing fuel bladders . <URL> Mooney was known for having integrated fuel tanks in their wing designs . <URL> of the tanks being resealed . They are notorious for needing a reseal every now and again but they do save in weight . Modern composite structures often do n't lend to this design as jet fuel or avgas and composites do n't really mix . <URL> Here is a nice cutaway of the A330 to show where the tanks are . <URL> It should be noted that you can generally pump fuel between the tanks however care must be taken when this is done because it can greatly effect the CG . <URL> has some really interesting information on how complex it was to manage the fuel weight on the Concorde and how it needed to be pumped around the tanks during various phases of the flight just to keep the plane stable .
You way want to take a <URL> of a 172 wing rebuild . The wing is not lots of tiny panels but what you are seeing is the areas that the rivets are placed to hold the larger panel on .
Big ones . Wake turbulence is primarily proportional to the aircraft 's weight , since this is generally directly related to the size of the aircraft and the amount of air the wings need to move to provide enough lift . Aircraft are categorized with respect to wake turbulence based on their maximum certificated takeoff weights . <URL> describes classes for ATC purposes as follows : Super - Interim class for the A380 and AN225 Heavy - 300,000 lb or greater Large - 41,000 - 300,000 lb Small - 41,000 lb or less Heavy and Super category aircraft are required to add their category to their callsign when contacting ATC , e.g. , " Speedbird 12 Super " . Aircraft in higher categories have larger separation requirements when in front on aircraft in smaller categories , such as between takeoffs or landings , and ATC will issue <URL> . The AC linked above discusses further on wake turbulence , such as how it propagates and how it should be avoided or escaped . The FAA is also working on a <URL> , which is in effect at MEM , SDF , CVG , and ATL . <URL> to the Metroplexes of Houston , New York , Charlotte , Chicago , and Northern California in 2015 . This approval was based on years of joint research and development by the FAA , Eurocontrol , scientific experts in wake , and experts in safety and risk analysis . Categories are now based on weight , certificated approach speeds , wing characteristics , along with special consideration given to aircraft with limited ability to counteract adverse rolls .
Fuel is stored in fuel tanks , which typically have two requirements : They must be sealed so as to contain the fuel in all probable flight attitudes . ( Ideally they will keep it contained in a few improbable ones too . ) They must have appropriate plumbing to get the fuel to the engines . ( There are some exceptions to this , but <URL> . ) Anti-Shock bodies are typically not fuel tanks - they meet neither requirement as they are not watertight ( fuel will just pour out of them ) , and there 's no plumbing to get the fuel out of , or for that matter into them . As " Exhibit A " , take a look at the anti-shock bodies around the 787 flap tracks &amp; actuators - Note that the anti-shock body is hollow , but unsealed . Any fuel ( or water ) in here would simply pour out the trailing edge when the flaps are extended . <URL>
Yes , the EASA PPL is valid worldwide , but you must check the local laws prior to fly , for example , here in Brazil to fly a Brazilian registrated airplane ( PT - *** ) you shoud have an ANAC PPL license , but if you are flying to Brazil in an UK based Aircraft ( reg . G - **** ) , you can fly it with your EASA PPL . If you intent to Fly a Non-European aircraft for a long period in a same country , you should validate your EASA license within the local Aviation Authority , that ensures that you get the same level of license as you have from EASA .
The free turbine shaft can be called $ N_2 $ , but $ N_f $ is more common . Your fuel control for a turboshaft is not so simple . It requires a Fuel Control Unit and an engine control that needs to know how much torque is being produced at the $ N_f $ . A <URL> [ acts ] as an intermediary between the operator 's controls and the fuel valve . The operator has a power lever which only controls the engine 's potential , not the actual fuel flow . The fuel control unit acts as a computer to determine the amount of fuel flow needed to deliver the power requested by the operator . and [ A ] turboprop or turboshaft engine control system has an additional job to do that is not shared by its turbojet and turbofan counterparts . It must control the speed of the propeller or the free turbine , and it usually governs the pitch angle of the propeller blades . ( <URL> ) If you are not bypassing the FCU and other engine control systems , you do need a varying load to have control over the fuel flow ( indirectly ) . Running an unloaded turboshaft at high power is very dangerous , as the free turbine will be rotating at RPM 's way above its design limits . Unloaded free turbines may also cause an auto shutdown . <URL> By Emoscopes ( Own work : drawn using XaraXtreme ) [ <URL> , <URL> or <URL> ] , <URL> <URL> are now commonly fitted with a device to shut off the fuel supply at the HP cock if torque in the turbine output shaft suddenly falls to zero . A drawback to the simple free turbine turboprop is its behaviour if the load suddenly falls to zero . In such a case , the unconstrained free turbine overspeeds and will be destroyed by centrifugal forces . In other words , you do need a load of varying degrees , you can not test an unloaded fully assembled free turbine engine . As for efficiency , efficiency is a measure of <URL> , so a load is needed to get that measurement .
You 're going to run into a few issues . Below is a diagram of a typical aircraft carrier layout . Normally aircraft would land from right to left . The four cables are located closer to the right end than the left . The extra length after the cables is both to allow a " bolter " ( <URL> ) time to accelerate in case of missing the arresting hook ; and to allow an aircraft that caught a cable time to decelerate . Notice how far an aircraft can continue down the deck ( <URL> ) after catching the cable . Even if you catch the first cable , you might go off the aft end of the ship . Another issue is the way that the arrestor cables work . The housing where the cable enters the flight deck is curved to allow the landing aircraft to pull on the cable as it decelerates . The cable is not designed to be pulled in the opposite direction , which could cause it to break ( <URL> ) . Aside from these issues , you would also lack the <URL> system that provides physical guidance during the landing . And as <URL> , you have to either touch down late , or catch the cable late , both of which could pose problems .
There is a good writeup <URL> that explains the engine issues as well as the rest of the incident you mentioned . Core lock happens when parts inside the engine cool off at different rates , causing interference between them . In the case of the CF34 engines on these Bombardier jets : GE isolated the problem to contact between components of the high-pressure-turbine interstage seal - a static , pressurized honeycomb component - and the rotating seal teeth on the outer torque coupling . Working on getting a good illustration of what they are talking about . This does not mean that the engine is " not functional . " There is just much more resistance on the rotating components , but once the temperatures have time to equalize , the components will break free . According to the NTSB , FDR data indicate that the engine cores were beginning to break free just before the impact . During core lock , the resistance makes starting the engine more difficult . A windmill start does not provide very much turning force on the engine components , so the resistance from core lock makes that method of starting difficult . GE has done engine testing , and when the windmill restart fails , they are able to use bleed air from the other engine to restart the engine , which provides more turning force .
Just imagine an aerobatic aircraft going straight up and rolling at the same trime - sure it will have positive lift on one side and negative on the other while accelerating into the roll or when stopping the rolling motion . Note that during a constant rolling motion while in a vertical climb the overall rolling moment and the <URL> both are zero . Also , wing twist will cause very little lift or even a small downforce at the wingtip at low angle of attack . I remember that the wingtips of the <URL> and <URL> gliders would point downwards from the negative lift at high speed . The high aspect ratio glass fiber wing would bend a lot and indicate the local lift with a local change in curvature . However , if you were flying an approach , the aircraft should have flown too slowly to allow for that condition , unless it also started to roll violently from the lift asymmetry . If you had to apply full aileron to counter a gust-induced rolling moment , that very aileron deflection would avoid any negative lift on one of the wingtips . This only leaves the possibility that you had negative lift for a very short moment and over a small part of the wing when the gust hit you and before you countered the rolling motion with the ailerons .
I am sure every airline has such a model , which will include actual wind and temperature information , but it will contain proprietary data which is not publicly available , unless you have a proven interest and signed an NDA with the airframe and the engine companies . Boeing is actively marketing <URL> to it 's customers . For first-order estimates , Federico 's comment is a good start , but you will still need fuel flow and L/D values . A range of similar software exists , but here the quality of the output depends mainly on the quality of the aircraft and engine models . While Boeing should know their aircraft well , the authors of independent software like <URL> or <URL> have to guess the right values , but still sometimes such tools will be precise within one percent . Piano even offers a free version called Piano X , but you will need to burden yourself with a Windows installation to run it . If you need even more precision , there are commercial packages which do this , first of all <URL> . But this does much more ; fuel flow is only a tiny aspect of the full package . Eurocontrol is supporting <URL> , which is a tool for computing aircraft trajectories , but it can also compute the full flight and contains an extensive set of detailed aircraft datasets . Access to BADA is restricted , however , and you will need to acquire a license . If you want to assemble your own tool , <URL> would be a good start . Write a wrapper which calls JBSim repeatedly and keeps track of the aircraft trajectory , and integrates the flight parameters along the way . But you will still need to get the aerodynamics and engine data from somewhere .
Update Everything in the second section ( my original answer ) used to be true ( well , except for the first statement ) , but does n't consider that the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 made this regulatory . The FAA has <URL> that discuss it in more detail , but here is an image that covers the basics : There is also a <URL> from the FAA which discusses their ability to enforce the regulation and many other parts of 14 CFR 91 if a model aircraft endangers another aircraft , flies within 5 miles of an airport without receiving a clearance , flies into a restricted area , etc. . The short version is that it is n't regulated ( yet ) . For more details , read on . FAA has an <URL> page on their website which addresses this : Do I need permission from the FAA to fly a UAS for recreation or as a hobby ? There are two ways for recreational or hobby UAS fliers to operate in the National Airspace System in accordance with the law and/or FAA regulations . ... Option # 1 . Fly in accordance with the Special Rule for Model Aircraft ( Public Law 112-95 Section 336 ) . Under this rule , operators must : Fly for hobby or recreational purposes only Follow a community-based set of safety guidelines Fly the UAS within visual line-of-sight Give way to manned aircraft Provide prior notification to the airport and air traffic control tower , if one is present , when flying within 5 miles of an airport Fly UAS that weigh no more than 55 lbs . unless certified by a community-based organization Register the aircraft ( UAS over 0.55 lbs . and less than 55 lbs . can be registered online at registermyuas.faa.gov ; UAS 55 lbs . or greater must be registered through the FAA 's paper-based process ) The other option is to obtain a pilot certificate and <URL> The FAA has also published an Advisory Circular <URL> , which states : 1 - PURPOSE . This advisory circular ( AC ) provides guidance to persons operating Unmanned Aircraft ( UA ) for hobby or recreation purposes meeting the statutory definition of " model aircraft " contained in Section 336 of Public Law 112-95 , the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 . This AC describes means by which model aircraft may be operated safely in the National Airspace System ( NAS ) . Nothing in this AC changes the requirement to comply with the statute or any applicable regulations . ... 6 - MODEL AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS . ... b. Model Aircraft Hazards in the NAS . While aero-modelers generally are concerned about safety and exercise good judgment when flying model aircraft for the hobby and recreational purposes for which they are intended , they may share the airspace in which manned aircraft are operating . Unmanned aircraft , including model aircraft , may pose a hazard to manned aircraft in flight and to persons and property on the surface if not operated safely . Model aircraft operations that endanger the safety of the National Airspace System , particularly careless or reckless operations or those that interfere with or fail to give way to any manned aircraft may be subject to FAA enforcement action . c. Determination of " Model Aircraft " Status . Whether a given unmanned aircraft operation may be considered a " model aircraft operation " is determined with reference to section 336 of Public Law 112-95 : ( 1 ) The aircraft is flown strictly for hobby or recreational use ; ( 2 ) The aircraft operates in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ( CBO ) ; ( 3 ) The aircraft is limited to not more than 55 pounds , unless otherwise certified through a design , construction , inspection , flight test , and operational safety program administered by a CBO ; ( 4 ) The aircraft operates in a manner that does not interfere with , and gives way to , any manned aircraft ; and ( 5 ) When flown within 5 miles of an airport , the operator of the model aircraft provides the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) with prior notice of the operation . Model aircraft operators flying from a permanent location within 5 miles of an airport should establish a mutually agreed upon operating procedure with the airport operator and the airport air traffic control tower ( when an air traffic facility is located at the airport ) . d. Public Law 112-95 recognizes the authority of the Administrator to pursue enforcement action against persons operating model aircraft who endanger the safety of the National Airspace System . Accordingly , model aircraft operators must comply with any Temporary Flight Restrictions ( TFR ) . ... Model aircraft must not operate in Prohibited Areas , Special Flight Rule Areas or , the Washington National Capital Region Flight Restricted Zone , without specific authorization . e. Model aircraft operators should follow best practices including limiting operations to 400 feet above gro
Actually , a commercial airliner can do almost any set of legs , assuming those are technically possible ( range/payload/laws like ETOPS ... ) But the main fact that make it possible is demand . If you run an airline , you wo n't make routes that do n't have demand to make profit . Aviation is a complex world . To make profit , you have to consider a massive load of parameters . You ca n't for example position complete set of crew in every city/airport hotel of your airline routes then decide to create fantasy flights " a la carte " . Crews ca n't fly continuously aswell , so you ca n't put crew in a 737 and make them non-stop flights around the country an entire week . One main thing you have to keep in mind : It 's not one or several persons who decide " I want to build an airline with X aircraft on Y routes " . It 's one A-B route that decide how many passengers are available on , then , an airline has the opportunity to operate that route ( and struggle to negociate all the authorizations ) Here are some hints about how airliners deals with their environment around the world : What kind of flights does the airliner , and what airframes does it have in its fleet ? An airliner can start with one single aircraft , says a DHC6 Twin Otter , and makes regular flights between two airports in the middle of the ocean . You can have 10 , 15 , maybe 20 round trip a day , some well after sunset . An airliner can have half a dozen ATR or Dash 8 , and a set of routes with the proper demand . You can have routes like hub-A-hub , hub-B-hub , when the demand is enough to make each flight profitable . Sometimes , you ca n't have enough passenger a day on each route , so the airliner makes hub-A-B-C-D-hub the day one , then hub-D-C-B-A-hub on day two , and cycle the sets ... An airliner with dozens of ( the same ) aircraft ( 737 or A32x ) can either have the same round trip hub-X-hub destinations every day , several times a day , airlines like Air France , Southwest , Lufthansa , Air China ... or the same fleet , but much more destinations operated two or three times a week : hub-A-B-hub , hub-C-D-E-hub , hub-F-G-H-nightstop-G-F-hub ... like Angola Airlines ( domestic and regional ) Long range flights ( 7 hours or more ) requires the appropriate aircraft . If your airline can buy/lease such an airliner , the route hub-destination-hub can be operated in the limits of the demand . When the demand is enough to fill the plane along the week , then go ahead . Otherwise , the airline has to decide wether a ) leave the plane on the tarmac , b ) find a nearby complementary route : hub-A-B-hub , hub-B-A-hub , c ) use a smaller and cheaper aircraft ( if the crew is qualified on ) d ) combine destination A with a complementary destination B that fills schedules along the week ( or bi-week ) hub-A-hub-B-hub , e ) replace the route with one better , f ) negociate with one or several airliners to sell seats to them to fill the aircraft , g ) negociate with one or several airliners operating on the destination airport to take advantage of the hubbing : make your airline land at the destination during rush hours . Very long range flights ca n't be operated every day with one single aircraft . And very long range flights are a niche : the hours spent in that closed tube discourage passengers from taking such flights . And very long range flights are a hell to schedule : the aircraft does 3 or 4 flights a week , and stays on the tarmac the rest of the time . The size of the airline : If your airline is a big one , like British Airways or Japan Airlines or United , your reputation and historical operation is enough to get demand on most usual routes ( and your staff has the expertise to select profitable ones ) Most of your flights will be the type " hub-X-hub " , either domestic , regional , or international . If your airline is above average ( like Kenya Airways , Aeromexico , Air India ) you 'll have a mix of " hub-X-hub " flights and some complementary legs to fix schedules and aircraft operation ratio : hub-A-B ( - C ) - Hub If your airline is below average ( Blue Panorama , Air Kazakstan , Belavia ) chances are great to have charter flights , multiple flight shifts . . Timetables greatly vary from one year to another . Small airlines like Air Austral , Republic Express ( Indonesia ) , Insel Air will have historical regular flights , but most of them will be of type " hub-A-B-hub " and/or " hub-A-C-E-C-B-hub " . Timetables also vary from one year to another , but at a less rate than above because the airline do n't have enough aircraft to think of new or better routes to operate , as the ones available can not be closed or replaced . The region of operation - the airport statistics ( passenger volume per year ) : There are regions of high frequency of flights : Western Europe , United States , Japan , South-East Asia , Eastern Australia , the Dubai-Europe axis ... In those regions , you have several hundreds of round trip routes that can be operated ten times a day using a Boeing 747 . Cheap flights , historical demand , dynamic business . You can operate flights of type " hu
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
The details of the strength required are likely to be complicated and proprietary . However , we can do a very rough estimate . Using the equation for estimating root bending moment <URL> , and the following numbers : Fuselage weight : 230,000 kg MTOW : 577,000 kg Engines : <URL> Fuel : 260,000 kg Wings : 60,000 kg Wingspan : 79.75 m Wing taper ratio : <URL> The equation gives a root bending moment of 17,300,000 Nm . Of course , this is just a static load . If you consider a 2.5 g pullup , this could be 43,300,000 Nm . But on the ground , the wings will bend under their own weight . Running the bending equation on the wing weight , and adding in the engines , gives 23,900,000 Nm in the other direction . As to how it can be trusted : a lot of math . Organizations like EASA expect way more accuracy than my above estimate , which requires analysis of the specific loading conditions that need to be met , both static and dynamic , and the specific design of the wing , structurally and aerodynamically , which is how aerospace engineers earn the big bucks . Of course the A380 is bigger than anything mass-produced before . But the in-depth analysis will take this into account . Airbus has some experience building large aircraft , so they have a pretty good idea of what works and what does n't . Detailed testing is also done , on everything from the nuts and bolts up to <URL> . All of this information is used to back up the design . Airbus is n't going to invest money in a large test without being reasonably sure it will work , and EASA is n't going to certify a design until it has been successfully tested . Modern analysis allows predicting pretty accurately where and at what load structure will fail . But even then , with something so large and complex , things happen . Important things like the wings are required to not fail even if they are damaged , and to have redundant load paths so that even if a part fails , the remaining structure will hold . Parts are inspected to look for damage before it becomes critical . <URL> . More analysis is done , and fixes are implemented . Usually this wo n't be an issue of " the wing ca n't handle the load " , but that " the wing wears out too quickly " . <URL> is harder to predict and design for . The FAA requirements are in <URL> . This includes : Unless otherwise specified , a factor of safety of 1.5 must be applied to the prescribed limit load which are considered external loads on the structure . So they must take the maximum load expected without permanent deformation ( limit load ) , and allow a 1.5 safety factor on top of that without failing ( ultimate load ) . In order to show that the structure is capable of meeting the requirements : Compliance with the strength and deformation requirements of this subpart must be shown for each critical loading condition . Structural analysis may be used only if the structure conforms to that for which experience has shown this method to be reliable . The Administrator may require ultimate load tests in cases where limit load tests may be inadequate . This means that all analysis has to be shown to be reliable . This must either be tested , or compared to the known performance of previous designs . The testing must also be sufficient to prove the requirements will be met .
I do n't understand your statement - not sure where you are going with that . In general , the principles are the same as for fixed wing . If the CofG limits are exceeded , it is possible to run out of control authority to the extent that the aircraft becomes uncontrollable . Many helicopters , I believe any with a tail rotor , have different left/right CofG limits . The tail rotor opposes the rotation of the fuselage due to torque from the rotor . Since it does this by producing thrust to the side , there is a " translating tendency " which would cause the helicopter to drift in the direction in which the TR is generating lift . To counter this , the cyclic neutral position is rigged to the left ( CCW rotor ) or right ( CW rotor ) which results in the skid on that side hanging low . Clearly , there is now less possible movement in the cyclic to that side and therefore , a narrower lateral CofG . For example , in a helicopter with a counter-clockwise rotating rotor , the fuselage wants to rotate clockwise . The tail rotor will produce a thrust to the left to counter this and a long lever couple is formed with the main rotor which , if not corrected , would cause the helicopter to drift to the right . With a perfectly balanced helicopter , in a no wind steady hover , you want the cyclic to be in the centre with no force required from the pilot . To stop the drift to the right , the cyclic is moved to the left . To prevent the need for the pilot to do this , the cyclic is rigged so that its neutral position is to the left . The main rotor thrust vector is now titled to the left which introduces a horizontal component of thrust acting to the left . This also causes the left skid to hang low . This is why in most CCW rotor helicopters , the captain sits on the right and in some of these helicopters , solo flight from the left is prohibited . Since the cyclic is already left of centre , there is less cyclic authority to the left than to the right . Therefore , the right limit of lateral CofG is less than the left limit . This could not be achieved by moving the CofG since this would level the fuselage but would not oppose the thrust . I will never forget the sensation of my first solo lift into the hover after the talking ballast ( my instructor ) got out and left me to it . I lifted with the control positions where I was used to them . Because there was 170lbs less weight in the front left corner , this meant that I started to pitch up and move back . I was surprised by how much forward and left I had to move the cyclic to counter it . It felt very odd for a few minutes .
Pilot here ( with Cessna 152 hours ) as well as an engineer who made it most of the way to an Airframe and Powerplant technician license at one point in life . There are several reasons that conspire to produce ' unusable fuel ' : Fuel tanks on airplanes have complex shapes - they include baffles and other walls ( with holes in them ) to prevent oscillations from building up during in-flight movement . Sometimes these baffles are even engineered into the tanks late in the design cycle as testing finds oscillation issues . These baffles result in ' geometric trapping ' of fuel in nooks and crannies . Drawing fuel from a fuel tank is more complicated in a plane - cars are pretty much flat with minor tilts while airframes can have all sorts of odd and sustained directions that the fuel wants to go due to acceleration . Imagine an extended tilted spiral while descending - that fuel experiences far more lateral acceleration over a longer time period that a car would have . Getting the fuel system to pull fuel out from these different angles is challenging ( note that I 've picked a non-aerobatic maneuver for which the Cessna 152 of your question is qualified here ) . All of this is a cost/complexity tradeoff - solutions exist for 1 and 2 above - fighter jets use fuel bladders that have pressure bladders arranged to squeeze the fuel out so that they can get almost all the fuel even at high G-forces and unusual angles . Aerobatic planes have similarly more expensive and complicated systems than the old and cheap Cessna 152 . There are other considerations as well , but mostly it comes down to whether the plane in question can justify the cost and effort to get every last drop of fuel . Things get even more complicated in rockets - the moon rockets ( properly the Saturn 5 although it was an upper stage specifically ) had special extra engines called ullage motors whose only job was to give the stage a little boost in space to push the fuel towards the rear of the rocket so that the main motors could draw fuel and start . Addendum edit : @supercat below - the definition of unusable fuel is set by federal aviation regulation part 23 , section 959 ( <URL> ) and basically is the worst case under " intended operation " for the particular plane . Since the Cessna 152 is not aerobatically rated , for example , the unused fuel is defined as the fuel level where SOME intended maneuver would be capable of causing a fuel system error . In practice , especially in flat level flight , some of that unusable fuel would be available for use although you are not supposed to plan to use it in your flight planning .
You might be surprised to learn that most refueling tankers hold a relatively small percentage of their total fuselage volume in fuel . The reason why is simple ; a plane stuffed to the gills with fuel would be so grossly overloaded it would n't make it off the runway . Tankers , therefore , can double as medium transports with little modification , as they have a sizable upper deck which is more or less empty space when serving as a tanker , but which can ferry troops , light vehicles or other materiel from Stateside bases to various theaters ( a dedicated heavy transport like the C-5 or C-17 would be used for transporting large units or for specialized troop transport like airbornes ) . Here 's the layout of the KC-135 Stratotanker : To my knowledge , all of this fuel is available both to power the plane and to refuel other aircraft , however the plane would likely draw primarily from the wing tanks for flight , as this is the " standard " configuration for the 707 the KC-135 is built on . Transport of the fuel from these tanks to the refueling systems would be accomplished with an integrated pump and pipe system that could move fuel from anywhere to anywhere . The bulk of the fuel load , as you can see , is contained in four " body tanks " totaling over 144,000 pounds of fuel . For comparison , the F-15E strike fighter can carry a maximum , with CFTs and 3 droptanks , of just 35,550 pounds . These tanks are lined with plastic bladders , which contain the fuel ( so the entire fuselage does n't have to be leak-proof which is much more difficult and expensive to ensure ) and also allows the bladder to collapse as the fuel inside it is depleted , reducing the volume of air in direct contact with the fuel , thus reducing the vapor hazard . AFAIK the wing tanks do not have these bladders , but they 're much smaller spaces overall and more easily accessed . Separating the fuel into multiple tanks has several advantages : The tanker is still serviceable with one or more of the tanks unable to carry fuel ( leak in the bladder , pump failure , etc ) . Sloshing of the fuel in the tanks has less effect on the weight distribution of the aircraft . Imagine trying to take off with a full Olympic swimming pool in your cargo hold ; any pitch up or down will cause several tons of weight to move " downslope " , unbalancing the aircraft ( probably fatally ) . Fuel can be pumped between these tanks to fine-tune or " trim " the aircraft 's weight distribution and handling characteristics , a process known as " tank trimming " which is more aerodynamically efficient than elevator trimming .
Interesting question . In the past , the preamble to the PTS showed reference material that can be used to throughout the PTS . With the new Airman Certification Standard ( ACS ) , those references are incorporated into each task . For slow flight below it lists the references as FAA-H-8083-2 , FAA-H-8083-3 and POH/AFM . <URL> <URL> Undoubtedly , it will list the Airplane Flying Handbook as a reference . All the maneuvers and techniques are in that book . It is generic and the POH takes preference if there are disagreements . <URL> <URL>
The actual fuel type limitations will be listed in at least two places : the aircraft type certification data sheet ( TCDS ) , and the limitations section of the aircraft Flight Manual , Operating Handbook , or equivalent . The fuel placards placed at the fuel filler ports might not list all approved fuels , or may state " Type X fuel only " when additional fuels may in fact be approved . These placards should be understood as a precaution against inadvertently fueling with an unintended or wrong type of fuel . In some cases ignoring these placards can have <URL> . Some aircraft do indeed have approved emergency fuels . This information would also be found in the limitations listed above . For example , the <URL> for the Beechcraft King Air B200 with PT6A series engines is lists the following for normal approved fuels : Fuel JP-4 , JP-5 ( MIL-T-5624 ) ; JP-8 ( MIL-T-83133 ) ; JET A , JET A-1 , and JET B conforming to P&amp;WC S.B. 1244 or ASTM SPEC . D1655 ; in addition for B200 and B200C Chinese No. 3 Jet Fuel . See NOTE 6 for emergency fuels Note 6 in the TCDS reads as follows : NOTE 6 . Emergency use of MIL-G-5572 : Grades 80/87 , 91/98 , 100/130 , and 115/145 are permitted for a total time period not to exceed 150 hours time between engine overhauls . It is not necessary to purge the unused fuel from the system when switching fuel types . Likewise , the <URL> for the King Air B200 lists the same limitations . The Flight Manual for the King Air B200 also lists these limitations , as applicable , as well as some additional altitude constraints when using emergency fuels due to electric boost pump requirements . In contrast to the actual fuel limitations , the placard placed at the fuel port for the King Air B200 lists very little of the actual limitations : <URL> Source : Beechcraft King Air 200 <URL>
This depends where in the world you are , over civilian US territory military planes chose to operate under the FAA FAR 's ( although they are not explicitly legally required to ) , as such its pretty cut and dry <URL> No pilot in command of a civil aircraft may allow any object to be dropped from that aircraft in flight that creates a hazard to persons or property . However , this section does not prohibit the dropping of any object if reasonable precautions are taken to avoid injury or damage to persons or property . Elsewhere in the world the rules may vary . There may also be rules about dropping tanks over open water due to their being residual fuel in the tanks . <URL> <URL> would indicate that they are actually not dropped all that often .
end question
start question
Why was this Twin-Otter Take-Off unsuccessful ?
Comments under the video say clearly : According to Transportation Safety Board ( Canada ) report # AO7W0128 , Take-off weight did not meet performance capabilities of the Aircraft . Calculations to clear 50ft obstacle were not performed . Southeast end of runway , not clearly marked . Take-off was attempted in an up slope direction with a slight tailwind which increased the necessary distance to clear a 50ft obstacle . Center of gravity ( CG ) calculations were off and found to be too far forward .
Even with similar weight , turboprop and turbofan aircraft will have different design characteristics . A turboprop will fly at lower altitudes and airspeeds , resulting in different aerodynamic designs . A turboprop also burns less fuel per hour , so it will need less fuel capacity . That being said , we can look at some aircraft to get an idea of what the trends might be . The best example is probably the Dornier 328 . It 's a turboprop aircraft that seats about 30 passengers . There also happens to be a version of the plane with jet engines . This is probably about as similar as you can get in both weight and aerodynamics . According to Skybrary , the figures are as follows : <URL> MTOW 13990 kg Distance 1000 m <URL> MTOW 15200 kg Distance 1382 m You can see the the jet derivative is a bit heavier but requires a much longer takeoff distance . The trend is similar between other aircraft . <URL> Turboprop MTOW 18600 kg Distance 1085 m <URL> Jet MTOW 20000 kg Distance 1580 m <URL> Jet MTOW 21523 kg Distance 1527 m
Some comments state this was a wind-shear , is that correct ? Looking at the windsock which appears in the right bottom corner at 0:12 and remains visible for about 4 seconds , you can tell there is little wind , not what you would associate with wind shear . I want to ask here , what caused this very bumpy landing ? It is always hard to judge the actions of the pilots without knowing what was going on in the cockpit , and what control inputs were given . But by looking at the position of the control surfaces I am fairly sure that this is a case of <URL> . I.e. the pilot tries to correct a disturbance but his efforts cause the aircraft to overshoot to the other side of the desired attitude , leading to an increasing series of corrections in opposite directions . It seems to me that the flare is a tad early , causing the aircraft to float over the runway . At the same time several cycles of alternating roll inputs are given , causing increasing oscillations . I could distinguish at least 3 full cycles before touchdown . Every cycle is a bit stronger than the previous one . The last right-wind-down command before touchdown is strong enough for all the starboard spoiler to deflect . This , combined with the low speed due to early flare causes the right wing to loose most of its lift . The aircraft touches down hard on its right gear first . At the moment of touchdown , the roll command is strongly left wing down as can be seen from the spoiler extension on the left wing . With almost no lift on the left side and standing on the right gear , the aircraft rapidly rolls to the left . The left roll is then counteracted again with right ailerons up but too late ; the right gear lifts of again . When then right gear touches for the second time , still a right wing down command is given , causing the right roll to continue . This process of chasing the roll is continued and mixed with similar behaviour in pitch . Command right wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command left wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command right wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command left wing down , slight spoiler deflection Command right wing down , right spoiler deflection . Touch right gear down , left wing down , left spoiler deflection . This causes a rapid left roll . Touch left gear down , right gear looses contact , right side spoiler deflection . This causes a rapid right roll . Halfway the roll to the right , all main wheels are on the ground . Instead of damping the roll by left deflection , a right roll is still commanded . This continues down the runway , also combined with pitch oscillations . Every time the pilot corrects , he is essentially too late to damp the oscillations . Is required by rule to make a maintenance check after such a landing ? If a hard landing is made , the aircraft will detect that by itself and will send a report to maintenance if a hard landing check is required . See <URL> .
Spoilers lower lift and increase drag on the side where they are deployed . Symmetric spoiler deployment , therefore , is for slowing down . Asymmetric deployment not only creates a ( small ) rolling moment , but primarily a yawing moment which helps to counteract the <URL> created by ailerons , especially at the high lift coefficient at takeoff and early climb . Spoiler deployment increases pressure ahead of the spoiler due to the slowing of local flow ahead of the obstruction caused by the spoiler , and it creates a local flow separation at and behind the spoiler , which in turn lowers the local pressure . Only the first effect lowers lift , but both create drag . The main effect of a limited spoiler deflection , therefore , is to increase drag .
Twin enigned aircrafts without counter-rotating propellers A great many twins do n't have counter-rotating props : One such aircraft is the BeechCraft Baron 58 , as seen in <URL> . Another aircraft I can think of is the King Air 350 . It is not any more or less common to have one or the other . Contra-rotating propellers Another interesting solution to the P-factor ( prop pulling towards one direction ) , especially on single engine aircraft is contra-rotating props , two propellers on the same shaft that spin in opposite directions . This is mainly for single engine racer aircraft , but there are multi-engine aircraft known to have it , such as the Soviet Tu-95 Bear bomber . The pic shown here is a Spitfire Mk . XIV : A better explanation of the P-factor P-factor is the term for asymmetric propeller loading , that causes the airplane to yaw to the left when at high angles of attack . Assuming a clockwise rotating propeller it is caused by the descending right side of the propeller ( as seen from the rear ) having a higher angle of attack relative to the oncoming air , and thus generating a higher air flow and thrust than the ascending blade on the left side , which at the other hand will generate less airflow and thrust . This will move the propellers aerodynamic centre to the right of the planes centreline , thus inducing an increasing yaw moment to the left with increasing angle of attack or increasing power . With increasing airspeed and decreasing angle of attack less right rudder will be required to maintain coordinated flight .
Because when taking off you go from 0 vertical speed to a positive rate of climb all by way of the wings ( the force on the gear will decrease over time to 0 when airborne ) . But while landing you will go from negative rate of climb to 0 vertical speed . Most of that will be absorbed by the gear ( the force on the gear will spike and then settle to only the weight of the aircraft ) . After touching down there is also the braking force exerted on the gear which is proportional to the mass of the aircraft . It is that spike + braking force that the engineers are worried about when calculating max landing weight .
According to the post at LiveATC , <URL> , apparently due to <URL> . With the airport closed , nobody could be granted clearance to take off or land . Outside of declaring an emergency , there 's nothing the pilot ( s ) could have done to get clearance at Newark other than just waiting . In an emergency situation like smoke in the tower , there would n't be anything published beforehand for the pilots to look up , but otherwise , pilots look at NOTAMS during their flight planning for planned closures or outages . Even in good weather , proper flight planning would also involve an alternate airport , anticipating the possibility that the intended airport might be closed for an emergency like this . <URL> is <URL> , a small uncontrolled field just outside the Class B surface area . If I had passengers in my ship who were trying to fly out of Newark , I would have radioed operations and asked them to send a limo to Linden to pick up my passengers . [ There is one part of the recording that says " [ inaudible ] " . The pilot is announcing his position at the Statue of Liberty , a reporting point for copters landing EWR . ]
The aircraft checklist will determine when the pitot heat should be on . Strictly speaking , if the checklist says it should be on , the only reason it should not be on is if the system is inoperative or is causing some issue ( if the generator system fails it will drain the battery , as falstro commented ) . The checklist linked by Lnafziger has the pitot heat ON before takeoff and OFF after landing . Other times it may be " as required " by conditions . The pitot heat makes sure the pitot system remains free of ice . Failed airspeed , especially in IFR conditions , can be serious . The failure may not be obvious , leaving you to stall/overspeed . Leaving the heat on can cause the system to overheat . While some systems automatically protect against this , not all will ( especially with smaller aircraft ) . Checklists for larger jets also seem to have probe heat on before taxi and off right before shutdown . The reason for this is probably safety . Modern aircraft rely heavily on pitot static systems . AF447 crashed partially due to icing on the pitot tubes . Why leave it off and run the risk of icing ? The cost of leaving it on is fairly low . On smaller aircraft where the pilot may even be able to see the pitot tubes , the situation may be different . These aircraft have less automation , and the cost of repairing a pitot heat system is higher relative to the rest of the aircraft 's maintenance . However , the issue of safety remains .
The NASA website quotes an approximate ratio of 1 The shuttle was designed with a low L/D ratio ( ~ 1 ) because during the descent the spacecraft must be slowed from about 17,300 mph to about 250 mph at landing . ( <URL> ) Note that glide ratio is normally equal to the lift to drag ratio - <URL> - <URL>
When preparing for a flight , pilots will calculate many things , including their rotation speed . This is the speed in their takeoff roll at which they will start to pitch up , and hopefully the plane <URL> . The rotation speed is dependent on many things such as temperature , altitude , and aircraft weight . My answer <URL> discusses the lift calculations in relation to rotation . That question covered the importance of speed related to weight . More speed is needed to create the lift to take off with a higher weight . When the airplane rotates , it increases the angle of attack of the wing , which increases the lift coefficient ( if the wing does not stall ) . The pilots will pitch up at a certain rate , and they do not stop until they reach a climbout attitude higher than what is possible when the main gear is still on the ground ( <URL> ) . They count on the plane acheiving enough lift during rotation to leave the ground so that they pass that maximum pitch while in the air . If pilots underestimate their weight , they will calculate a lower speed than is necessary to provide the lift for takeoff . This means that when they rotate , the plane does n't have enough airspeed yet to create enough lift to take off . So instead of leaving the ground before fully pitching up , the tail strikes the runway . It may seem like an easy mistake to make , but thousands of pilots do it every day without a problem .
As a general average , Chicago O'Hare ( KORD ) seems to do somewhere between 1.5 and 2 operations per minute ( so roughly one takeoff or landing every 30-40 seconds ) . I based this on data from the FAA 's <URL> report , and specifically looked at November 23 through November 30 of 2014 ( 17835 operations , over 8 days works out to 1.55 operations per minute - I poked around randomly and found days as high as 1.7 operations per minute ) . One of the limiting factors for number of operations at any airport is separation between aircraft , which is covered <URL> Incidentally we were discussing airport/tower activity levels <URL> earlier today , and Chicago O'Hare is the busiest airport in the United States overall - a title it recently stole back from ATL ( which was # 1 from 2004 to 2013 ) .
A GPS needs a line of sight to ( at least ) 4 satellites in order to compute a position . Given that you were able to get a position during the cruise , I assume that you were close to a window and had a clear view of a part of the sky . During the cruise , the aircraft trajectory was close to a straight line ( or changing slowly ) , so your receiver was able to keep a line of sight to the same set of satellites . But during the approach , the trajectory was much more dynamic ( lots of turns ) , so your receiver did n't had a constant line of sight toward the same set of satellites and " lost " them . It takes time for a receiver to " lock " on the signal of a given satellite , so the receiver it could n't compute a position from other satellites because they were not in sight long enough .
Radar Warning Receiver systems ( RWRs ) used by military aircraft are omnidirectional . However , they do not warn of incoming missiles ( unless that missile is at least semi-actively radar-guided , like an AMRAAM ) . What they warn of are various patterns of radar activity , including a radar lock ( which is a constant , high-intensity scanning of the aircraft 's position , more than just a " blip " as the antenna passes by on a wide-angle scan pattern ) . If another aircraft has a radar lock on you , you should be expecting an incoming missile of some kind . However , IR missiles ( AIM-9 Sidewinder , AA-11 Archer , MICA IR , ASRAAM ) do not emit any EMR that indicates they 're incoming ; they use a passive FLIR sensor to identify and track the heat source they were told to kill ( they do n't even require a radar lock ; the seeker can be cued to a pilot 's helmet , or it can be " uncaged " and will lock on to the most significant heat source in front of it ) . Passive radar-guided missiles like the old AIM-7 Sparrow also do not emit their own radar ; they track the radar returns from the firing aircraft . Only semi-active and active radar-homing missiles emit their own radar noise that can be used by the RWR to know one is on the way . A few older passive missile systems used radio control to guide the missile to the target , and RWRs can also detect these " sideband " radio signals as a clue a missile has been launched . More modern Missile Approach Warning Systems ( MAWS ) have additional features that can help detect and track incoming missiles of multiple types . The biggest clue of a missile launch is a new heat signature , especially in the direction of an incoming radar lock ; a suite of IR sensors can be used by MAWS to put 2 and 2 together and warn you of the missile launch .
I can find no evidence of the FAA or any other authority ever issuing such a permit . <URL> ( without a permit ) . An SN-601 tried to take off from Portland with one engine . Unsuccessfully . Luckily no one was hurt . There 's also a <URL> , in which there are several undocumented , anecdotal stories about this being done successfully ( and illegally ) , e.g. in a <URL> and either a <URL> . There are some good technical reasons why this is unlikely to be safe , or approved by any authority : Asymmetric thrust will make the takeoff very difficult . In particular , until the airplane reaches VMC , it may not be possible to keep the airplane on the centerline with takeoff thrust on one engine . Especially for piston airplanes , single-engine performance is often very poor . Hence the expression , " in the event of an engine failure , the other engine will get you to the scene of the crash . " All-engines-out operation in a multi-engine airliner is usually considered an extremely unlikely event , and as such , training is patchy and contingency procedures are very dire if they exist at all . Basically , if your one good engine dies , you 'd be in mortal danger , much moreso than in a single-engine airplane , in which pilots are well trained for engine failures , since all-engines-out is a much more likely event . Back to the notion of ferry permits , some guidance is given in <URL> , which lays out conditions for one-engine-inoperative ferry permits for 4-engine or 3-engine-turbine airplanes . It says nothing about twins though .
Because that wing is a cantilevered beam which is now supporting over half the weight of the jet on it . This causes the wing to flex , much like a leaf spring , when loaded . While fascinating to watch this is benign and designed to do this . In addition , this wing flexure helps to absorb bumps , air turbulence , dampen flutter , maneuvering loadings , etc. much like the coil springs in your car 's suspension do . Do n't be alarmed to see this . Those wing structures have been tested to far worse loads and conditions that you will ever see on a revenue carrying flight before failure occurs . A 747 's wingtips can flex by as much as 12ft up/down during flight . Newer composite wings are capable of much greater flexure . This was video shot of Boeing 's destructive testing on the 777 wing . Note the wingtip flexes by as much as 20ft upward at a loading over 150 % that of its design load limits before structural failure occurred .
By the time the government had pulled the plug on the program . Even that hop got Hughes into trouble because they had been expressly forbidden from taking off ( he got off on a technicality , claiming it 'd been unintentional , unexpected behaviour from an experimental machine , etc. ) . If it had been anyone except Hughes I 'm pretty sure the H4 would have been destroyed rather than preserved as a museum piece , the US government was that intent on killing the project there and then . They had a lot of air bases with long runways to find a purpose for , and long range air travel was an excellent purpose . They also wanted to find customers for the thousands of surplus transport aircraft ( and bombers to be converted to that role ) . So getting rid of the traditional way to fly intercontinental , the flying boat , was important . Were people curious ? No doubt . But they also were budget conscious , the H4 had no more military application so there was no money coming out of the Pentagon . It had no civilian application , as for large payload ships are cheaper and for small , fast payloads it was too large . So even if there had not been active hostility towards the flying boat concept at the time from people with the power to release or deny budgets , there would have been little point in implementing an expensive flight test program ( which usually requires multiple vehicles ... ) for an aircraft for which it was highly unlikely there would ever be any peacetime orders . Of course 50 years later the idea was kinda revived with a short period of interest in Wing In Ground effect vehicles to fly troops and supplies over the feared Soviet submarine fleet in the Atlantic . But that did n't start up until near the demise of that threat in the 1990s and nothing ever made it past concept drawings ( except paradoxically a few Soviet craft in the Caspian and Black Sea regions , the Ekranoplans ) . I 've little doubt the H4 would have worked as advertised , seeing it it looks sound in design , basically a scaled up B314 . But there was just no market for it . It was an example of too big , too late .
It sounds an awful lot like a <URL> , or maybe the ' civilian ' version ( it 's primarily used by militaries ) , the <URL> . <URL> It 's used by the U.S. Air Force , so seeing it in Britain would not be surprising - all 3 of the U.S. Air Force 's RAF joint use bases are within 100 air miles . It 's twin-engine , with a tailplane and twin fins Its tail boom does narrow somewhat and distinguish itself , as seen <URL> It does have somewhat of a chunky body The wings are fairly <URL> ( front-to-back )
When or is selected , the hydraulics pressurise in the appropriate direction . Once the gear is up and the mechanical locks are keeping the gear locked in place , can be selected to disconnect the hydraulic power .
Yes indeed , the fan blades are loose and rattle in their sockets when the fan is freewheeling in the wind . Once the engine is running , centrifugal forces will make sure they do not rattle any longer . The base of the fan blades have a shape like a fir tree , and they slide into sockets on the fan disk with a loose fit . When the fan is spinning slowly , they will sit on one side of the socket on the way up , and gravity will pull them into the opposite side on the way down . The rattling is caused by one blade after another falling into that opposite position once they rotate over the top . Sorry for the bad picture - I could not find a better one right now . There are concepts to move to bladed disks ( " blisks " ) , but while they are lighter and do n't rattle , they are a headache once a single blade is damaged and needs to be replaced . Therefore , the single , easily removable fan blades are the solution of choice in all gas turbines .
As any licensed pilot knows , the FAA and the US military are the " de-facto " regulators of 99.9 % of what goes on in the air over the US ( see : <URL> ) . Still , state and local governments are not entirely powerless here . The general theory being more or less that , in cases where there is no obvious conflict with the FAA , or the US military , then local jurisdictions may still have some small level of control over certain very limited " air-spaces " ( see : <URL> ) . Suggestion : 99.9 % of the time , the FAA wins , but hey , do n't let that slow you down ! ( Still , in view of the findings of the second case I just listed above , if I were you , I might try keeping peace with my neighbors over trying to save just a few steps on the way home . )
end question
start question
What is the procedure to turn a certified aircraft into an experimental aircraft ?
You essentially convert it to Experimental Exhibition , not Experimental Amateur-Built . That means more restrictions , depending on the FSDO . For instance , your operating limitations may prohibit passengers , or require permission for every flight over a given distance . It is said that the FAA can be sensitive to people trying to put type-certificated aircraft into Experimental category for recreational use . Important advice below is that you should get permission from the FSDO before starting work on the airplane . Even if you do this ( and they likely wo n't like you converting say a Cherokee or a Cessna 172 to experimental ) , they will place certain restrictions on use , such as only flying within a 25 mile radius , and every year you may have to submit a " Program Letter " with a list of all the fly-ins and shows you are going to go to ( since it is experimental-exhibition category , so you need to exhibit it ! ) All that is to say , you probably will have a hard time converting a certificated plane to experimental and using it like it seems you intend to from your question . Here is the relevant section from <URL> . Section 10 . Certification and Operation of Aircraft Under the Experimental Purpose of Exhibition or Air Racing General . Under the provisions of § 21.191 ( d ) , exhibition aircraft are defined as aircraft that exhibit the aircraft 's flight capabilities , performance , or unusual characteristics at air shows , fly-ins , and aviation events ; for motion picture , television , and similar productions ; and for the maintenance of exhibition flight proficiency , including ( for persons exhibiting aircraft ) flying to and from such events and productions . Under the provisions of § 21.191 ( e ) , air racing aircraft are defined as aircraft that participate in air races , including ( for such participants ) practicing for such air races and flying to and from racing events . a. Exhibition . A certificate for experimental exhibition must only be issued when an aircraft is to be used for valid exhibition purposes . Included in those purposes are organized air shows , organized fly-in activities , organized exhibitions , youth education events , organized aerobatic competition , fly-ins or meets , and movie or television productions . The duration of an airworthiness certificate for exhibition may be unlimited . Here is an example of how to do it I found on a old page from the <URL> website . ( I found the page in the internet cache , so it is likely this method is n't foolproof ) STEP 1 Submit bill of sale for project Aircraft as " bought for salvage Parts " to the FAA . Add a separate letter of salvage in order to remove it from the FAA registry as Salvaged . This de-registers this A/C and is an important first step . STEP 2 Obtain written permission from your local FAA Flight Standards District Office ( FSDO ) inspector in order to remove the data tag from the salvaged project aircraft . This step represents a great opportunity to develop a positive relationship with the FSDO inspector with whom you 'll be working to complete the process . Be straightforward and explain that you require his help in order to certify your project in accordance with 14 CFR § 21.193 , under a Special Airworthiness Certificate for the purposes of operating an aircraft in the experimental exhibition group 2 - Piston Engine Aircraft category , for the purposes of : Demonstrating flight proficiency ; Demonstrating the superior engine reliability of modern V8 engines ; and Participating in exhibition of the aircraft at airshows and public event in order to educate the public about the unique and interesting characteristics of this aircraft It is important to understand that the FAA FSDO inspectors are busy folks , and that they will appreciate the fact that you 've done your homework . Maintain professionalism and do n't expect an answer on the spot , as these inspectors have a number of strict procedures and guidelines within which they must work to accomplish the goal of certifying your aircraft . They deal with a great variety of aircraft and requests and may require some time to get up to speed on your specific request and understand the nature of your Robinson V8 aircraft . STEP 3 Reserve a new N number on <URL> . When your new N-number is confirmed by the FAA , simply submit forms <URL> for the new N number as : Manufacturer ( preferably your new LLC Company or yourself ) . It can not be the old manufacturer of the salvaged parts . Model ( Example : Military Seabee OA-15 ) or whatever you want to call it . It can not be the old model of the salvaged parts . These forms need to be sent to the FAA Oklahoma City Registration Branch . When your project is completed and ready for airworthiness inspection and operating limitations , issue a program letter to your FSDO inspector . With FAA application for airworthiness form 8130.6 . They will take it from there . Here is an example of program letter : Program Letter Nxx
TL ; DR : Do you change altitude after the heading change , before , or during ? When flying under Air Traffic Control , you are expected to execute instructions after you receive them , following the motto . When receiving a turn and climb instruction at the same time , you are expected to start both , e.g. What 's the proper procedure for changing altitude when you change headings ? You do not change altitude or flight level on your own when flying IFR . When flying VFR , you should adhere to the semi-circular rules when changing your direction and end up in one of the semi-circular areas . On turn techniques that allow direction change and altitude change at the same time , see <URL> . Is this made more complicated if you are flying Visual Flight Rules instead of Instrument Flight Rules ? Yes and No , because remember : You do not change altitude or flight level without being cleared or instructed to do so when flying IFR . Whether having to choose the correct altitude or flight level when flying VFR is more difficult than having ATC select one for you , is debatable . Additional Information : The rule you are talking about is the <URL> , which depending on the country , can either be applied West to East or North to South . Let 's assume the example you have already used and differentiate between westbound and eastbound flights . ( Image Source : <URL> ) The above picture shows that aircraft on a eastbound general track between and are bound to odd flight levels , such as FL210 , FL230 , FL250 , etc. . Opposite traffic on a general track between and is bound to even flightlevels , such as FL220 , FL240 , FL260 , etc. . This flight level you are bound to use is also the flight level you request in your flightplan , called the Requested Flight Level or RFL . Imagine you have a flight going westbound and you have requested FL280 as your cruise level . You would maintain this flight level until you are cleared to descend by ATC . Even if a portion of the descent or arrival route leads in the opposite direction of your orignal track , it will be ATC who is responsible to assign the correct desend flight level , but these do not have to be necessarily following the semi-ciruclar flight level rules . There is one scenarion where a pilot may want to initiate a flight level change due to changing jurisdiction and use of the semi-circular flight level rules , which is when crossing borders between countries that use west-east and north-south rules . If are on a westbound flight ( approx track : that requires even flightlevels , such as FL280 and cross the FIR border into a country with north-south rules that require an odd flight level , you would have a step climb or descent in your flightplan to accomodate this , e.g. : It would still be ATC who clears you to climb to FL290 at that fix , but this way your flightplan is in accordance to local semi-circular flight level rules . Remember that when flying IFR , you never change the altitude or flightlevel unless you have been instructed or cleared to do so . The same semi-circular flight level rules apply to VFR , just with the added 500ft to stay clear of the IFR flight levels . In most cases however , VFR does not entirely follow these rules , as the are VFR and their separation is based on visual identification and the see-and-avoid principle . I am not familiar with airspace class B procedures , but in class C airspace , you require permissions to enter the airspace and will thus be assigned restrictions , which can be either a single altitude or flight level , an upper or lower restriction or a level or altitude band . If you are assigned either of the two latter options , you could apply the semi-circular flight level rules . See below on an overview how other countries handle these semi-circular rules . ( Image Source : <URL> - Not for real navigational use ) See also these related questions : <URL> <URL>
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
As you say , the FAA certifies an aircraft for certain " kinds of operation " . For a normal category airplane certified under 14 CFR 23 , it basically says that it must be " established appropriate to the installed equipment " : § 23.1525 Kinds of operation . The kinds of operation authorized ( e.g. VFR , IFR , day or night ) and the meteorological conditions ( e.g. icing ) to which the operation of the airplane is limited or from which it is prohibited , must be established appropriate to the installed equipment . The installed equipment required for IFR flight ( beyond that required for VFR flight ) is listed in <URL> ( d ) and is mostly equipment used to communicate with ATC and to maintain control of the airplane when flying without visual reference to the ground ( so no navigation equipment is specified ) : § 91.205 Powered civil aircraft with standard category U.S. airworthiness certificates : Instrument and equipment requirements . ... ( d ) Instrument flight rules . For IFR flight , the following instruments and equipment are required : ( 1 ) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , and , for night flight , instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( c ) of this section . ( 2 ) Two-way radio communication and navigation equipment suitable for the route to be flown . ( 3 ) Gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator , except on the following aircraft : ( i ) Airplanes with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of 360 degrees of pitch and roll and installed in accordance with the instrument requirements prescribed in § 121.305 ( j ) of this chapter ; and ( ii ) Rotorcraft with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of ± 80 degrees of pitch and ± 120 degrees of roll and installed in accordance with § 29.1303 ( g ) of this chapter . ( 4 ) Slip-skid indicator . ( 5 ) Sensitive altimeter adjustable for barometric pressure . ( 6 ) A clock displaying hours , minutes , and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation . ( 7 ) Generator or alternator of adequate capacity . ( 8 ) Gyroscopic pitch and bank indicator ( artificial horizon ) . ( 9 ) Gyroscopic direction indicator ( directional gyro or equivalent ) . As far as converting an airplane from VFR to IFR , the Type Certificate Data Sheet ( TCDS ) must specify that the airplane is designed for IFR flight , and then you could add the missing equipment to make it qualify .
<URL> contains recommended crew member procedures and training for combating in-flight fires . It has information about causes , indications and procedures of in-flight fire fighting . According to the AC , Upon discovering a fire , the initial focus should be on aggressively extinguishing the fire with a readily available extinguisher ( which will likely be halon ) , but do not use water if it is believed the fire is of aircraft electrical system origin . Generally , you should consider using the first available extinguisher rather than delaying your firefighting efforts while you locate a particular extinguishing agent for a class A , B , or C fire . Airbus <URL> also says pretty much the same thing : Any fire , no matter how small , may rapidly become out of control , if not dealt with quickly.The first priority will always be to put it out . Coming to the Galaxy Note 7 issue , the AC says , h . What are the Recommended Procedures for Fighting a Lithium Battery Fire ? The following procedures are recommended for fighting a fire in a lithium-type-battery-powered PED . The procedures consist of two phases : extinguishing the fire , and cooling the remaining cells to stop thermal runaway . ( 1 ) Utilize a halon , halon replacement , or water extinguisher to extinguish the fire and prevent its spread to additional flammable materials . ( 2 ) After extinguishing the fire , douse the device with water , an aqueous-based extinguishing agent , or other nonalcoholic liquids to cool the device and prevent additional battery cells from reaching thermal runaway . Though the standard procedures in case of a fire has to be decided by the company , the FAA recommends some procedures to be followed , like : • Be aggressive ; if flames are visible , fight the fire immediately . • Someone must immediately notify the flight crew to describe the fire , smoke , smells , action being taken , etc. . • If flames are not visible , find the base or source of the smoke . • Pull circuit breakers , in applicable area . • Do not reset circuit breakers , unless instructed by flight crew . • Relocate passengers as necessary . • Locate hot spots using the back of your hand . • Don PBE ( not necessarily in this order ) . The flight crew ( who are supposed to don their oxygen masks on indication of smoke/fire ) are supposed to inform the ATC and plan for an emergency landing , if necessary .
As DeltaLima said , it is kind of hard answering your question . After looking at the <URL> you might have found the answer already . Let me try to answer your specific question though : Assuming an airliner , let 's say the A320 , for some reason got into a spin , can it be recovered ? The general answer would be yes ! Here are some things to consider though : The FAA requires all single-engine normal category aircraft to demonstrate spin recovery in <URL> . It depends a lot on the center of gravity of the airplane whether it is recoverable from a spin or not . If the center of gravity is too far aft , it will not be recoverable from a spin . Gliders , being light , have an easy shiftable CG , and there is some that do n't enter spins at all or need extra weights in the back in order to make them spinnable ! Airliners are not required to do so as they are not as likely to get into a spin in the first place ! The structure of an airliner is designed for air flowing over it , not for being in a spin ! Centrifugal forces will be applied to the structure due to angular acceleration . Also , spins by airliner would be a lot faster then by little aircraft and more forces would be applied to the frame . If the recovery from the spin is made too fast or abrupt , it can overstress the airplane as well ! All Airbus I know are fly-by-wire , and Airbus is well known for its computer based controls . Most airliners have a lot of systems , which prevent them from even getting into a stall . There a incidents where these systems failed and it went back to the pilot doing the right thing . As a spin always always always requires a stall first , and pilots are trained to avoid stalls in the first place , it is very unlikely for an airliner to enter a spin , having the pilot and various systems working against entering a stall !
It describes what the velocity vector of the aircraft centre of gravity is in relation to the surface of the earth . Ground speed is the 2-D projection of your speed on the ground , climb speed is the vertical component . Both ground speed and climb speed are very useful parameters as such : ground speed to figure out when the aircraft arrives , climb speed to adjust engine settings etc for reaching cruise altitude with a minimum amount of fuel used . The 3-D vector sum of the two has little practical use , that is probably why it has no separate name as far as I know . The integrated signal is of more use : what is the position in 3D of the centre of gravity of the aircraft relative to earth ? Pretty useful for navigation .
<URL> regulates scheduled airline operations in icing conditions . It requires airframe ice protection systems in order to operate in " conditions conductive to airframe icing " , which they define as : visible moisture at or below a static air temperature of 5 ° C or a total air temperature of 10 ° C , unless the approved Airplane Flight Manual provides another definition . This essentially means that any airline that can operate in IMC is going to be subject to this requirement unless they have very niche operations at low altitudes in warm lattitudes where they can stay below the 10 C level when in IMC . Aircraft operated by airlines that operate in IMC at temperatures colder than 10 C must either have an ice detection system or a means of detecting the first formation of ice on the airframe and then activate ice protection systems or they must , in the absence of detection , always operate their ice protection when operation in conditions conductive to airframe icing . For smaller on-demand operations operating under part 135 , <URL> regulates flight into icing conditions . This regulation requires that any airplance flying into forecast icing ( IFR only ) or known icing conditions ( VFR or IFR ) has functioning de-ice or anti-ice protection . This means a 135 operation ferrying passengers from Miami into the Bahamas probably does n't have to worry about this , but a IFR 135 operation anywhere it gets cold probably does . For non-121 and non-135 operations in airplanes with 20 passenger seats or more , the applicable regulation is <URL> and reads exactly like the part 135 regulation . Summary Combined , parts 121 , 125 and 135 regulate the majority of commercial operations . The requirements of part 121 realistically mean that any airplane suitable for scheduled airline operations is equipped with ice protection . Part 135 can utilize a broader range of aircraft and while ice protection is not required it is quite limiting for the operation if it is not present ( no flight into known or forecast icing conditions under IFR ) . This means that all airline aircraft ( part 121 ) are certified for FIKI but not all passenger airplanes ( operated under part 125 or 135 ) are certified for FIKI ( and can not operate in those conditions if not equipped ) . Regs § 121.321 Operations in icing . ( a ) When operating in conditions conducive to airframe icing , compliance must be shown with paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) , or ( 2 ) , or ( 3 ) of this section . ( 1 ) The airplane must be equipped with a certificated primary airframe ice detection system . ( i ) The airframe ice protection system must be activated automatically , or manually by the flightcrew , when the primary ice detection system indicates activation is necessary . ... ( 2 ) Visual cues of the first sign of ice formation anywhere on the airplane and a certificated advisory airframe ice detection system must be provided . ( i ) The airframe ice protection system must be activated when any of the visual cues are observed or when the advisory airframe ice detection system indicates activation is necessary , whichever occurs first . ... ( 3 ) If the airplane is not equipped to comply with the provisions of paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of this section , then the following apply : ( i ) When operating in conditions conducive to airframe icing , the airframe ice protection system must be activated prior to , and operated during , the following phases of flight : ... ( ii ) During any other phase of flight , the airframe ice protection system must be activated and operated at the first sign of ice formation anywhere on the airplane , unless the Airplane Flight Manual specifies that the airframe ice protection system should not be used or provides other operational instructions . § 135.227 Icing conditions : Operating limitations . ( c ) No pilot may fly under IFR into known or forecast light or moderate icing conditions or under VFR into known light or moderate icing conditions , unless -- ( 1 ) The aircraft has functioning deicing or anti-icing equipment protecting each rotor blade , propeller , windshield , wing , stabilizing or control surface , and each airspeed , altimeter , rate of climb , or flight attitude instrument system ; ( 2 ) The airplane has ice protection provisions that meet section 34 of appendix A of this part ; or ( 3 ) The airplane meets transport category airplane type certification provisions , including the requirements for certification for flight in icing conditions .
Almost always a plane going to a boneyeard is flown to the general area . Typically they are taxied , towed or dragged away from the airport itself . CHEAP is the key word in any recycling / 2nd-hand operation . Planes at the end of their economic lives , that can not be flown because of damage or lack of maintenance , tend to be moved out of sight , valuable bits and hazardous materials removed , and the hulk reduced to scrap using normal construction/demolition equipment . The scrappers near Mojave airport work the same way , in a bare dirt lot down the street from the storage adjacent to the airport . I 've been to AMARG * , at Davis-Monthan , to Mojave Airport/Spaceport and a facility for smaller , general aviation , aircraft , Cessna 150s through commuter and business turboprops/jets . The later had a large , grass , field , for last landings . Other planes arrived by truck , in pieces . Most airplane museums are near an airport , but exhibits are less likely to fly in . A plane headed for a museum or restoration shop , even as a donor , is often disassembled and sent by truck , train or ship . But restoration is n't scrapping , the economics are different . * AMARG , or the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group ( previously known as AMARC , the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center )
<URL> notes that medical oxygen containers - whether for the storage , generation , or dispensing of oxygen - must be : 135.91 . a. 1 . i Of an approved type or in conformity with the manufacturing , packaging , marking , labeling , and maintenance requirements of title 49 CFR parts 171 , 172 , and 173 , except § 173.24 ( a ) ( 1 ) 135.91 . a. 1 . ii When owned by the certificate holder , maintained under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program ; 135.91 . a. 1 . iii Free of flammable contaminants on all exterior surfaces ; and 135.91 . a. 1 . iv Appropriately secured . 135.91 . a. 2 When the oxygen is stored in the form of a liquid , the equipment must have been under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program since its purchase new or since the storage container was last purged . 135.91.a.3.i-ii When the oxygen is stored in the form of a compressed gas as defined in title 49 CFR 173.300 ( a ) When owned by the certificate holder , it must be maintained under its approved maintenance program ; and The pressure in any oxygen cylinder must not exceed the rated cylinder pressure . 135.91 . a. 4 The pilot in command must be advised when the equipment is on board , and when it is intended to be used . 135.91 . a. 5 The equipment must be stowed , and each person using the equipment must be seated , so as not to restrict access to or use of any required emergency or regular exit , or of the aisle in the passenger compartment . 135.91 . b No person may smoke and no certificate holder may allow any person to smoke within 10 feet of oxygen storage and dispensing equipment carried under paragraph ( a ) of this section . 135.91.c No certificate holder may allow any person other than a person trained in the use of medical oxygen equipment to connect or disconnect oxygen bottles or any other ancillary component while any passenger is aboard the aircraft 135.91 . d Paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section does not apply when that equipment is furnished by a professional or medical emergency service for use on board an aircraft in a medical emergency when no other practical means of transportation ( including any other properly equipped certificate holder ) is reasonably available and the person carried under the medical emergency is accompanied by a person trained in the use of medical oxygen . Part 91 does not seem to speak to medical oxygen Additionally , a <URL> notes that : In the DOT final rule , section 382.133 generally requires that air carriers conducting passenger service must permit someone with a disability to use an FAA-approved portable oxygen concentrator ( POC ) on all flights ( on aircraft originally designed to have a maximum passenger capacity of more than 19 seats ) unless the device does not meet applicable FAA requirements for medical portable electronic devices ( M-PED ) and does not display a manufacturer 's label that indicates the device meets those FAA requirements . The page goes on to list approved oxygen containers . So , it seems that the FAA does not consider POCs to be hazardous , so long as they meet certain FAA approval standards . ( If you are asking about General Aviation requirements , I would assume an FAA-certified POC is okay to bring on a GA flight as well )
I know you said that you do n't think it 's a crosswind , but honestly it most likely is . As the plane speeds up and the wings start to generate more and more lift the plane is more easily affected by cross wind . So , as you speed up , it gets harder and harder to keep the plane straight . Throw in some gusts , and you 're going to get some jerking motions as well . Especially if that gust decreases the lift of the aircraft , the wheels suddenly catch the ground more and the craft is suddenly tugged harder than the pilot anticipated ... Here 's a video of a <URL> that should illustrate the point more .
DO-178 / ED-12C Any software that executes on installed hardware in a type certified aircraft will need go to through DO-178C ( or a similar process ) . The amount of effort involved depends on the safety criticality of the software functions . Since this sounds like a new system without predefined System Requirements ( such as those you would get from an OEM as part of the SAE ARP 4754A processes ) , those will need to be defined by your development process and then your Software ( High Level ) Requirements trace from those . Here in the US , smaller companies will typically contact and work with the local ACO ( Aircraft Certification Office ) during the product planning stages to identify the product as following the DO-178C processes . Larger companies , especially OEMs , tend to work with DERs ( Designated Engineering Representatives ) rather than directly with the ACO , as they may have dozens of different DO-178 projects going at one time . EASA Software Certification Guidance on the EASA Software Aspects of Certification can be found in EASA CM - SWCEH - 002 <URL> From that document , Panel 10 seems to be the part of EASA that you would work with , although I have n't found how a new applicant would go about contacting them yet . The EASA panel in charge of software and AEH aspects of certification . This panel includes at least one software and AEH expert ( who is the coordinator ) and , depending on the size of the project , may include additional software and AEH experts . There is also a FAQ page for the application processes with EASA : <URL>
Depending on how long you are storing the plane , there are different options . Some planes may be used or sold in the future . They are just waiting for the market conditions to improve so that the owner can afford to operate it again , or someone else would be willing to buy it . Some planes are too old for anyone to want to buy them . In this case , they are most useful to the current owner , so they store them in case they will be useful in the future . Another possibility is spare parts . While the plane is stored , it can be slowly disassembled to provide parts for other aircraft still in service . Once all useful parts are removed , it will be chopped up into scrap metal . Recently , some new aircraft are being stored <URL> . There is also a case where the Air Force decided to purchase some planes , but later decided they did n't really need them . It 's cheaper to send them to storage than cancel the contract , so <URL> . You can rent hangar space somewhere to store the plane . This is much harder to do for larger planes , and hangar space is expensive and limited . However , it obviously offers the best conditions for the plane , where it can be protected from the weather . This is more likely to be a short term solution unless the plane is very important ( or the owner has deep pockets ) . Another option is the " <URL> : " <URL> Areas like the US southwest have very low humidity year round , which reduces the amount of corrosion on an airframe . Airplanes are designed to be outside most of the time anyway , so they will hold up pretty well . Windows may be covered to keep the internal temperatures down , and certain gaps may be covered as well . Small airplanes may be completely wrapped in plastic . Some examples of this include the boneyard at <URL> in Tucson , AZ , where the US military parks its planes , and nearby <URL> , where many civilian aircraft are stored .
I 'm only able to find the following about bank angles , which specifically refers to turns while in a holding pattern : <URL> 6 . ( b ) : ( b ) Make all turns during entry and while holding at : ( 1 ) 3 degrees per second ; or ( 2 ) 30 degree bank angle ; or ( 3 ) 25 degree bank provided a flight director system is used . NOTE - Use whichever requires the least bank angle . This is also in the <URL> which under * High Performance Holding on page 3-25 says that a flight director has a bank angle limit of 25 degrees . If we use the above guidelines , then a flight director will use 3 degrees per second or 25 degrees of bank , whichever is less . My calculations give us the following bank angles and associated rate of turns1 : As you can see , a jet travelling at 480 Knots TAS ( not uncommon at altitude ) would require almost a 55 degree bank angle to make a standard rate turn , which would be an amount considered by almost anyone as excessive . When limited to 25 degrees of bank , this would result in a rate of turn of 1 degree per second ( or a 6 minute turn ) . Anything over 160 Knots TAS would be less than a standard rate turn , and once past 320 Knots TAS it would n't even be a 1/2 standard rate turn . As far as the 1/2 Standard Rate , they often use the 1/2 BANK autopilot mode at high altitudes . This would result in a rate of turn approximately halved , so a 360 degree turn would take 12 minute at the same 480 Knots TAS . ATC expects the normal bank in the terminal environment though , so it is n't used at lower altitudes . As others have said , transport category jets do n't even have a rate of turn indicator ( it is n't required by 14 CFR 25 if you have a third attitude indicator ) and they simply fly bank angles . Normal hand flying is limited to 30 degrees , which would allow a standard rate turn at a slightly higher airspeed , but then starts to taper off just the same . That being said , the <URL> does include this little tidbit in the section on turn indicators on page 5-21 : The dial of these instruments is marked " 2 MIN TURN . " Some turn-and-slip indicators used in faster aircraft are marked " 4 MIN TURN . " In either instrument , a standard rate turn is being made whenever the needle aligns with a doghouse . A standard rate turn is 3 ° per second . In a 2 minute instrument , if the needle is one needle width either side of the center alignment mark , the turn is 3 ° per second and the turn takes 2 minutes to execute a 360 ° turn . In a 4 minute instrument , the same turn takes two widths deflection of the needle to achieve 3 ° per second . So maybe at some point in the past it was more common ( or maybe faster but-not-quite-as-fast-as-todays-jets ) but you just do n't see that anymore . ( It could be where all of the references to 1/2 standard rate turns come from though . ) 1 Math adapted from the formulas <URL> .
A leaseback can be advantageous , especially when you use the aircraft for your own flight training and travel . But there are some things you need to watch out for : Other people will be using your aircraft - whether people admit it or not , nobody will take care of the plane as well as you do . If you think you might take issue with trash in the cockpit , a scratch on the panel , or a tear in the seat , you might want to give this a second thought . In my experience , flying clubs seem to have pilots that take better care of the aircraft , since membership is controlled . You 'll have to schedule your flights - just like everyone else ( though some concessions are usually made for the owner ) . The bottom line is , you wo n't be able to just get up and go fly somewhere at a moment 's notice anymore . You have to play by someone else 's maintenance rules - While you have to comply with FARs in any case , the lessee typically will have stipulations that they ( or their designee ) will perform any required maintenance on your behalf and your say in the matter will be limited . Of course , you still have the honor of paying for any maintenance performed ( typically at little or no discount ) . Your capital is tied up - This can be a good or bad thing . It 's good in the sense that aircraft tend to be a good hedge against inflation risk . It 's bad because you 're precluded from using the money on something else . This is one of the main reasons that flight schools/clubs LOVE leasebacks . If you 're looking to make money ... it wo n't happen - most leasebacks only help offset the expense of operating the aircraft . If you 're looking for a return on your investment , better to look somewhere else . Do it only to reduce the cost of ownership on something you want anyway . Finally , YOU take on the financial risk of the aircraft - in most leaseback situations , you are reimbursed for any use , but are still responsible for any finance and indirect ( and sometimes direct ) maintenance costs . These have to be paid , whether the aircraft is flying or not . And if business starts to slow down ... well , I 'll give you a hint : it 's not the flying club that has to pay to keep your plane airworthy . This is the main other reason flight schools/clubs LOVE leasebacks .
Aside from the obligatory <URL> answer , there are some components on an aircraft that will certainly fail at a higher rate than other components . From the Piston GA side of the equation I can name a few ( some of which are also applicable to turbine aircraft ) . Incandescent Light Bulbs A lightbulb is a supremely unreliable device : A delicate bit of wire is suspended in a thin glass envelope and heated until it glows - then subjected to vibration ( from the engines , turbulence , etc. ) in flight . We use them all over the airplane -- Position lights , landing lights , cockpit instrument lighting , etc. . If you think about how often incandescent light bulbs burn out in your house it 's probably not surprising that they fail quite often on aircraft . <URL> . We still use incandescent lightbulbs because they 're cheap : A $ 0.25 light bulb can be replaced multiple times before its cost even approaches the capital investment in a better solution . Modern aircraft are incorporating an increasing number of LEDs to replace incandescent lightbulbs - these solid-state devices have a lower failure rate ( and other benefits ) . Batteries Much like your car aircraft rely on batteries for some functions ( like starting the engines or the APU ) . Batteries have a finite service life and will eventually fail to hold a charge and need to be replaced . Sometimes <URL> . We still use batteries because hand-propping aircraft can be dangerous , and getting the APU turbine up to speed without a battery would be nearly impossible . Also if the engine-driven generators fail the battery is a useful source of electricity to help you get to a safe landing site . Spark Plugs Piston engines are spark-ignition , and spark plugs have a variety of failure modes ( they can become fouled with lead or carbon deposits , the internal resistor can fail , or the electrodes can simply wear out ) . These failures are not uncommon : Statistically if you fly piston aircraft long enough you 'll probably encounter at least one of them . We use spark plugs for obvious reasons : Unless the fuel is ignited it does n't generate any power . Without power the propeller does n't turn ( at least not very fast ) , so there 's no thrust . No thrust means no flying . Tires Tires are another aircraft component with multiple failure modes . Interesting ones include leaks ( air leaving the tire at a rate fast enough to be a problem ) , " catastrophic " failures where the tire explodes or disintegrates while rolling , and " self-protective " failures ( where the tire reaches a temperature that melts the fusible plug and causes it to deflate to prevent it from exploding ) . Tires are also used for an obvious reason : Aircraft that constantly belly-land require expensive maintenance ( to say nothing of the damage they do to the airport ) , and the alternatives - skis , pontoons , or flying boats - are limited in the areas from which they can operate . Air Filters On piston engines there is normally an intake air filter which is designed to keep dust and grit out of the engine . These filters can fail by becoming clogged ( which I suppose is n't really a failure : The filter is doing its job ) , and certain paper filters can fail by disintegrating and being ingested into the engine ( the FAA has issued <URL> on this subject ) . We still use air filters - even the paper kinds that can disintegrate - because ingesting dirt into a piston engine greatly accelerates wear . The required maintenance on the air filter costs less than increased overhaul frequency .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
Wake turbulence can affect aircraft in the most critical phases of flight such as landing approach . For example , consider this <URL> On June 12 , 2006 , while on visual approach at Kansas City International Airport in Kansas City , Mo. , the pilot of a Piper Saratoga crossed below the flight path of a Boeing 737 that was landing ahead on a parallel runway . The Saratoga encountered wake turbulence so violent that it tore apart the aircraft in flight . The pilot and his passenger were killed . The effects are most severe for small aircraft entering the wake of a large aircraft but large aircraft can be affected too . Skybrary <URL> of incidents involving wake turbulance .
Looks like in the <URL> as well as in the <URL> the <URL> needs one according to the minimum equipment list . In the EU -70 -01 *** Cockpit Voice Recorder ( For Combined Voice Data Recorder , refer to 31-30-01 ) And in the US -30 -01 *** Flight Data Recorder ( FDR ) System That is a 6 seat plane , you will be hard pressed to find something smaller although other similar in class aircraft may also have them . It looks like some versions of the Cirrus SR-22 include an <URL> but im not sure if that conforms to the various impact regulations for a black box .
Boeing <URL> it in the following way : Controlled flight into terrain ( CFIT ) describes an accident in which a flight crew unintentionally flies an airplane into the ground , a mountain , water or an obstacle . Since it 's not unintentional , it 's better described as forced landing or in your case , ditching .
end question
start question
How does British Airways permit a 23 KG bag in hand baggage ?
Easyjet has no firm weight limit and advertises this fact . From <URL> There 's no weight restriction for cabin baggage , as long as you can place and retrieve the cabin bag safely in the overhead lockers without assistance . They also use vague language like " within reason " or " lift comfortably " but most people probably wo n't have 20 kg with them . Given the limited size of cabin luggage , you would need to deliberately carry dense , heavy stuff to reach that weight ( books maybe ? wine bottles and other liquids are off-limits and if you do n't want to check in any bag you still need space for your other things ) . And then , comes this ( from the BA website you mentioned ) : Occasionally we may not have space to stow all hand baggage safely on board and you may be asked to check in some or all of your hand baggage at the boarding gate . Bottom line : Airlines do n't need to rely on a prespecified weight limit at all . They rely on the size restrictions and general common sense to keep things manageable and if it somehow does not work out , they can always gate check a few bags .
The overspeed goes off when either the indicated airspeed exceeds that limit or the mach speed exceeds the mach limit . At least that 's how it worked on 747-100/200 aircraft . The 350 knot figure for the max operating airspeed sounds reasonable to me as long as you 're low . From memory that was around the max operating INDICATED airspeed for 747-100/200 aircraft . Remember , though , that indicated airspeed decreases with air density . A 747 cruising above 30,000 feet at around 550 knots TRUE airspeed is going to show an indicated airspeed of less than 300 knots . However , that cruising true airspeed of 550 knots or so is going to be around mach 0.86 . The max mach number for the 747 was 0.92 . If you were at , say , 15,000 feet and speeded up to 350 knots , the mach number would be much less than 0.86 . Take your sim up to 35,000 and see what you get .
There are 4 classes of cargo compartments listed in <URL> for transport category airplanes . The main concern with in-flight access is in regards to fire safety . Class A : Crew will easily discover fire from their station ( and therefore be able to suppress it as well ) Class B : There is a fire/smoke detection system , and access for crewmember to use a hand fire extinguisher Class C : There is a fire/smoke detection system to alert the crew , and a fire extinguishing/suppressing system installed Class E : For cargo-only aircraft ( no passengers ) : There is a fire/smoke detector , and a way to shut off air flow to the compartment So basically , there has to be some way to both detect and address a cargo fire . Class A compartments are those such as in the cockpit where a detection system is not necessary . It sounds like the ATR example would be Class B , since they had a fire indication , and the crew had access to extinguish the fire themselves . In larger planes with cargo in the lower hold , the compartments are usually Class C , so they have a detection system and a suppression system , and in-flight access is not required . As <URL> notes , the compartment may be accessible , but that does n't mean that crew could effectively locate or fight a fire in those areas . Especially for large cargo holds , a fire suppression system installed througout the hold is much more effective than crew members gaining access at certain locations . This also provides the benefit of isolating the main cabin from the fire extinguishing agents . Besides fires , there are <URL> where cargo compartment access could be helpful . But even in that case , it was better for the plane to just come back and land to access the cargo compartment .
Wheel wells are deceptively large spaces when the gear is down . It is fully possible to climb up and hide inside one . It 's a very different story when the gear is retracted . On many aircraft , the gear doors are closed when the gear is not in motion , making the space look bigger . They are fairly easy to access through the landing gear with a little bit of climbing , or if low enough ( like the example below ) just jump up into . 737 Wheel Well , Petr Volek , from airliners.net A graphic about a similar event in Hawaii a few months ago : <URL> From the <URL> Gear stowaways are not new and there have been plenty of occurrences over the years , unfortunately most result in fatalities . Gear bays are unpressurized , hence normally very cold with air too thin to sustain life . Gear bays are very cramped when the gear is up . If you 're in the wrong spot , you will be injured . It is when the landing gear is lowered ( and doors opened ) for landing that the fatalities occur , assuming they have not already expired from the environment during the flight . Unable to hold onto the airframe and stay off moving parts they ( very gruesomely ) fall out minutes away from landing . This is also the story that media often picks up .
As @fooot mentions in the comments it means <URL> , it is not a reference between the difference of <URL> and <URL> as many watch brands commonly reference now . This is a regulation that is intended to clarify the difference between a second hand that references the main dial and one that is on a sub dial . Historically planes may have <URL> where the large second hand is for the chronometer and not the elapsed time clock . <URL> ( <URL> ) You can find what looks like one of the <URL> . It references FAR 91.33 ( which seems to no longer be in place ) <URL> . I can not find any FAA legal interpretation that further defines " sweeping seconds " . On a bit of a side note , <URL> .
There are three different schools of thought there , and one can be selected based on the capabilities and characteristics of the tailwheel aircraft you are flying . Fly the tail off the ground : After achieving full power during the start of the takeoff roll , apply forward stick pressure until the tail lifts off and the aircraft assumes a level attitude on the main gear , then hold that pitch attitude for the rest of the takeoff roll . This technique can be done in most underpowered taildraggers and is useful for short field takeoffs and landings as it minimizes parasite drag and flat plate area during the takeoff roll . It will require a healthy bootful of right rudder to counter the change in P-Factor as well as gyroscopic precession from the propeller . Let the tail fly off the ground : After applying full power with full aft stick deflection , neutralize pitch input to the stick and continue the takeoff roll . As speed builds , the tail will lift off the ground naturally . This is the recommended technique when flying high performance tailwheel planes like WWII fighters , etc. . where good rudder authority is needed to counter P-Factor changes and precession . 3-point takeoff : Apply full power and hold full aft stick as well as additional right rudder to counter for P-Factor . As speed builds in the takeoff roll , gradually ease up on stick pressure but hold just enough to keep the tailwheel on the runway . As the airplane lifts off the runway care must be taken to quickly adjust elevator pressure to hold a gradual climb and prevent rapid pitch up and stall . I once flew an MX2 with an oversized prop offering only about two inches of ground clearance resting on the mains in level attitude . We were taught to only do 3-point takeoffs and landings and specifically warned not to attempt anything else to prevent a propstrike .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
In addition to <URL> , I am contributing some more details . Airbus 380 has room ( <URL> ) for potable water tanks which can be added to existing on-board water capacity for showers etc. . As we know , the showers are n't available for everyone but only for first class , which is probably less than 5 % of the total number of passengers , so the water usage is not tremendously huge . Waster consumption and shower duration is also controlled . <URL> makes the showers for Emirates and states : Low water consumption of less than 5 litres per minute When <URL> shower duration is consumed , it shuts down and you have to turn it on again for the remaining 75 seconds . Here is a <URL> ( including video ) of a passenger enjoying the spa .
I fly daily between two small G.A. towered airports in the Los Angeles basin . There 's often police and news helicopter activity within the Class D areas . The pilots stay in contact with the tower controller and explain where they 'd like to go , and ATC generally approves , while coordinating with arriving and departing traffic . In particular the approach to runway 25 at Hawthorne runs parallel to a major freeway . Occasionally there have been police and news helicopters operating up and down that freeway , right along final approach . The tower controller points them out to me as I 'm approaching , and if I can call them in sight I 'll just maneuver visually as necessary to avoid them . If I do n't see them , they 'll usually ask the helicopter to move , though I imagine if it were an urgent police situation I could be told to go around instead . Another technique they 'll use is to tell the helicopter traffic to stay north of the highway and the fixed-wing traffic to stay south of it . That way you can be pretty close but still not have a collision hazard as long as everyone is paying attention .
Lets cover your specific questions first . Let 's say someone has a helicopter license and wants to get their private pilot ? Do they have to take a knowledge test ? ( it appears I was initially incorrect and the knowledge test does not need to be <URL> below ) <URL> you do n't need to retake the knowledge test ( b ) Additional aircraft category rating . A person who applies to add a category rating to a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must complete the training and have the applicable aeronautical experience . ( 2 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 3 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . The FAR 's pretty much cover all the the various cases however they can be a bit confusing . What if someone is a sports pilot and wants to upgrade to a private pilot , what do they have to do ? How do you figure it out ? In terms of endorsements you must obtain an endorsement for what ever it is you are going to do ( exam , practical test , etc. ) even if you have a license in another class or category . For example if you are going to take the PPL check ride you need an endorsement for that check ride ( even if you have a sport pilots license ) . Now when it comes to training things may differ . Your training for a PPL will obviously be shorter if you have a sport pilots license but you will still be required to take the Private Pilots Single Engine Land written test and practical test and receive endorsements to do so , to get a PPL . This site covers the <URL> nicely . If you are transitioning from sport to private I would imagine you may be able to complete all the requirements for a PPL without having received the student solo endorsement since you could in theory have accomplished all your solo flight requirements as a sport pilot . Personal Note : Its always a good idea to speak with your DPE before taking any practical test and ask what endorsements he is expecting to see in your log book ( which should be the ones that are required and no more ( or less for that matter ) ) . When I went for my check ride the wording for the PPL practical endorsement had changed recently and he warned me that many instructors mess up the wording or the pre printed ones in the log book are out of date and it can be an issue . I had my instructor add the necessary line before I went for my check ride .
Some aircraft may have a special " ETOPS APU " that can be purchased , but many aircraft simply have THE APU that they come with . It is maintained to the standards required in the approved ETOPS program , and is either run during the ETOPS portion of the flight , or else has some means to ensure that it will reliably start even when cold-soaked . ( For instance , at least one ETOPS program requires that the APU be started shortly before the top-of-descent on enough flights to " prove " that it does , in fact , start up reliably even in a worst-case cold-soaked scenario . ) Most ( perhaps all ) APU 's in aircraft currently in production have the general capability of being started in flight , so that particular aspect of things is n't unique to the ETOPS world . Documenting the reliability of the APU is a uniquely ETOPS thing , but so much of ETOPS is about exactly that : demonstrating and documenting just how reliable the hardware is . It often is n't different hardware , but the same equipment as in a non-ETOPS aircraft , but maintained &amp; tracked to higher standards .
I am going to assume that by " critical " , you mean survivable . I will also assume that the engine failure occurs at a height which will kill you . It 's not so much critical steps , it 's critical outcomes . The single most critical outcome is to preserve , or regain , rotor RPM . What steps are needed to do this will depend on what the aircraft is doing when the engine quits and , to a lesser extent , the type of the helicopter . I will generalise for an " average " helicopter in straight and level flight . The immediate action that is drilled into everyone from the very earliest hours as a student is to lower the collective . Doing this has three effects . It removes the positive pitch from the blades which removes most of the drag , it aligns the rotor thrust vector with the axis of rotor rotation therefore not using rotor energy for anything except lift and it causes a clutch to disengage the rotor from the engine allowing it to freewheel . From this point onwards , you are heading back towards earth . The second immediate action at the same time as lowering the collective ( assuming forward flight ) is to pull back on the cyclic to flare . This loads the disc which causes it to " cone " upwards which reduces the disc diameter . Therefore , the centre of gravity of the disc moves inwards and due to conservation of angular momentum , the rotor RPM increases . For quite complex reasons , the nose of the helicopter will also pitch down when the collective is lowered so pulling back counters that tendency . The third immediate action is to push in the pedal on the opposite side to the rotation of the blades . If the blades rotate counter clockwise ( to the left as the pilot sees it ) you push in right pedal to reduce the thrust which is produced by the tail rotor which is no longer countering the yaw caused by the drag from the powered rotor . This is less critical than the first two and although it can be dangerous and get you into an uncomfortable attitude , it is usually possible to recover from not pushing the pedal in immediately . If you 've got rotor RPM , then you can sort it out . Now you have successfully entered autorotation . From here , fly more or less normally to the next critical point which is about 50 ' off the ground . What you 've done is to ensure that the rotor has flying RPM and that you are managing energy by trading potential energy ( height ) for kinetic energy ( rotor RPM ) . The conversion is done by the airflow which now comes from under the disc and " drives " the rotor to maintain RPM . The pitch is neutral , or maybe even negative but , the relative airflow is now upwards through the disc and therefore , the blades have a positive angle of attack and generate some lift . This stops the helicopter from falling . There is some drag generated as a consequence of generating that lift , but it is easily overcome by the power which is now driving the rotor from that upward airflow . As long as you are descending , that conversion will happen and your RPM will be maintained . The controls are rigged such that with the collective fully down , RPM will remain in the normal range . Sometimes you have to tweak it a little with small amounts of collective , flares and turns but in general , you just fly towards your landing spot . The allowed RPM range is greater in autorotation . For example ( and from memory ) , the R22 has a range of 97-103 % in normal flight and 90-110 % in autorotation . You are now descending with a high rate of descent and usually , significant forward speed . You need to reduce both of those to get to a safe arrival . To do this , there are three more critical steps . Starting at about 50 feet ( depending on lots of factors but let 's stick with the average helicopter which entered autorotation from straight and level with significant altitude ) , you flare the aircraft by pulling back on the cyclic . This will immediately begin to slow the aircraft . It will also begin to increase RPM ( you are now converting speed into rotor kinetic energy ) . At the same time , you increase collective to reduce the rate of descent by increasing the lift generated . This will rapidly increase the drag , but now the energy needed to maintain the RPM is coming from the flare which is converting speed into RPM . You also need to put in pedal to stop the aircraft from yawing as the drag increases on the rotor . Providing you get the entry right and your flare reduces the speed and rate of descent to something survivable , then you will walk away . You might wreck the helicopter and break some bones , but arrive at 10 feet with only 20 knots and 150 feet per minute rate and you 'll get away with it . If you are well trained and in practice , then you will land safely and smoothly with no damage to machine or people . In summary , critical steps : Entry . Lever down , cyclic back , pedal in . Arrival . Cyclic back , lever up , pedal in .
Short Answer : This will be very generic ... It depends on what type of missile it is : either IR or radar-guided . With IR missiles , the missile is caged and locked at missile boresight . The missile is commanded to the aircraft cueing system . When the target enters the missile 's FOV , the pilot uncages the seeker head , at this point you will hear a loud , " whiney " audible tone . The missile then transfers to track mode . The pilot pickles ... the missile batteries become operational , fins are unlocked , autopilot takes over , midbody connector is retracted , then ignition is commanded . With radar-guided missiles , it depends on the missile and what type of radar they have . Usually the radar is slewed to a target and locked up . When the pilot pickles , the missiles is either receiving data from the aircraft via datalink or is in active mode with the missile 's radar tracking the target . Eventually the missile 's radar will take over and track the target . The datalink can be terminated early by the pilot if the missile 's radar can take over allowing for some pretty cool tactical stuff . Long answer : There is A LOT more to it , but this is very basic . Tread very lightly with questions like this . A lot of the stuff ( especially numbers ) with regards to weaponry and modern threats are classified . And even though some of the stuff is n't classified , it 's still OPSEC and should n't really be discussed on an internet forum .
As soon as there 's a fire on board , the absolute top priority is getting everybody out as soon as possible . Aircraft are designed in such a way that , even after a crash landing ( or other serious malfunction ) , the passengers will have a minute or two to evacuate before conditions in the cabin become toxic ( fire , smoke , etc ) ; this is done by using flame-retardant material and burn-through protection , but in an intense fire these wo n't protect the cabin for long , and once they fail no-one will be able to survive inside the aircraft for much longer than that . Smoke inhalation and oxygen deprivation kill just as effectively as being burned . Therefore everyone has to be able to evacuate from the plane within 90 seconds , even assuming the plane is packed to the gills with passengers , and half the exits are inoperative . Given that the aircraft may be damaged after a rough/crash landing , some of the doors may be unusable ( due to fire or smoke just outside them ) , it may be dark in the cabin , and people may be injured and/or panicking , it 's vital that nothing slows down the evacuation . To get an idea of what a 90-second evacuation of a fully-loaded aircraft looks like , see the video of the <URL> - and these passengers were calm , uninjured , and prepared . If passengers take hand luggage with them this is slowed down : The time it takes to get it out of the overhead bins ( with everyone else crushing against you to get out ) . Carrying the luggage down the aisle ( without tripping , hurting yourself or anyone else - again , look at the A380 video , and imagine trying to do that with a suitcase ) . If you lose your luggage , everyone behind you will have to climb over it to get to the exit . Maneuvering your suitcase around the corner to the door , not getting it stuck on the door frame , with people behind you literally shoving you out the door . Plunging down a very steep slide the height of a two-storey building ( or more , in case of the A380 's upper deck ) at high speed , with your suitcase flailing around . At best it whacks you on the head , at worst it punctures and deflates the slide , which given the crush of passengers behind you will probably lead a few people to plummet from the aircraft doors straight to the ground . Assuming you 've made it to the ground , there is someone else plunging down the slide right behind you . If your suitcase slows you down even a little , they will plow right into you , and soon you 'll have a crush of people at the foot of the slide . In this specific case , the fire was fortunately not serious enough to defeat the cabin fire protection before the last passengers had evacuated - but as <URL> said , there are unfortunately other examples where the passengers were not so lucky . To illustrate the risk of fire after landing : <URL> ran off the runway at landing , and despite having little fuel on board , the resulting fire completely destroyed the aircraft ; luckily , everyone evacuated in time . Once there 's been a major malfunction , there is no way to tell how much time you have left to get out - fire can spread very very quickly - and so you have to get out as quickly as possible . Taking luggage with you endangers your life and that of your fellow passengers .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
In Europe , airlines pay so-called route charges for flying through national airspaces . EUROCONTROL , the European aviation organisation , collects route charges from their Central Route Charges Office , CRCO , and then distributes the money to the member states , who in turn will distribute them to the national air navigation service providers ( ANSP 's ) - including private ones . The advantage of collecting route charges centrally , is that airlines only have to pay to a single organisation , in a single currency . The charge for individual flights is calculated based on distance flown and aircraft weight , which are multiplied by a unit rate . The unit rates are determined by the individual countries - they are not the same across all of Europe . Unit rates are based on the actual costs for providing air traffic services , such as ATC , communication facilities , navigation equipment , meteorological information , aeronautical information service and so on . Route charges do not apply to aircraft weighing less than 2 tonnes , state and government flights and search and rescue flights . Some states also exempt military flights , training flights , test flights , local flights , VFR flights , humanitarian flights , police flights etc. . You can read more about the CRCO <URL> , and about how route charges are determined <URL> . Regarding your second question , I fail to see why a private ANSP should be any less safe than a government one .
What is <URL> ? [ It ] is the total pressure ratio across a jet engine , measured as the ratio of the total pressure at the exit of the propelling nozzle divided by the total pressure at the entry to the compressor . Placing an EPR probe in the A/B ( afterburner ) tube would not be a wise choice , and therefore in an A/B aircraft you would n't find an EPR reading . What is more useful is the NP ( nozzle position ) . As that is a <URL> of A/B level . N1 is still used of course . In the civil world , GE and CFM do n't have EPR sensors/readouts , unlike P&amp;W and RR . Not having an EPR avoids issues like EPR probe icing . But the downside is that it 's harder to compute engine FADEC parameters . More info here : <URL> Below are the F-14 engine instruments ( analog tapes and dials are also present in the cockpit ) . <URL> TBT is turbine blade temperature . EGT is also not used as it too would not survive the A/B stream . EPR and Reverse On the Boeing 747-400 with RR or P&amp;W engine options , the EPR window is blanked when reverse is activated . What the engine is redirecting is the bypass flow . So the EPR will still read as normal , which can be quite confusing to the crew especially in max reverse , hence the blanking .
Flameout basically means that the flame in the combustion chamber has been extinguished . A jet engine compresses air , then adds fuel and ignites it . So , it needs three things to function correctly - fuel , air ( oxygen ) , and the heat to make them burn . <URL> . It can happen for a number of reasons : fuel starvation - <URL> suffered flameout ( due to wrong amount of fuel being put ) and had to be landed like a glider . Compressor stall ( or surge ) - The disruption of airflow due to compressor stall can cause an engine flameout . Ingestion of foreign objects - <URL> suffered flameouts in all four engines due to ingestion of volcanic ash Firing of armament - Early in its service A-10 Warthog suffered flameouts due to the engines ingesting the gassed generated while firing the GAU-8 Avenger . Early jet engines ( like the Jumo 004B ) had <URL> ; however , modern jet engine flame outs are very rare , at the rate of about one every 100,000 non military flights . In most cases of flameout , the <URL> for resumption of flight . <URL> mentions a case where flameout happened because a F-100 ingested fuel ( during aerial refueling ) ; however , such occurrences are quite rare .
Feathering is not engine starting , and also is not used in turbine ( excluding turboprop ) aircraft . In a piston or turbo prop aircraft , in the event of an engine failure , to decrease drag so you can either glide farther or have better performance on the remaining engine ( s ) , you can set the prop pitch lever so instead of facing at a right angle to drive air backwards and produce thrust , the propeller will instead turn edge-first into the airstream , reducing drag . Not all propeller airplanes have this capability , but it 's an added safety feature . In motorgliders ( both light sport aircraft and primary ) without retracting blades , the feathering position turns the prop so that the edge faces into the airstream and also locks the propeller so it no longer turns .
With these conditions , how would this exist ? The comment by @mins appears to answer the question for modern engines , although I 'm not quite sure if I 'm interpreting your question as you intended , but if your intent is to find out how this happens from an operational standpoint , here 's an answer for the P&amp;W JT9D-3 through -7 engines as used on 747-100/200 aircraft . In 10 years of flying with these engines , I only had a flameout once , so it was n't a major problem , and the -3 engines were more susceptible than the later variants . The scenario is that you 're above 35,000 and you 've reached your descent point and need to reduce power from full cruise to idle . We were taught to first lower the nose to ensure that we would n't lose any airspeed ( a little gain was okay ) and then to slowly bring the thrust levers all the way back . As I remember , we typically took at least 5 seconds to get the levers back . In other words , if you suddenly reduced power or lost airspeed , you risked a flameout . From the pilot 's standpoint , if you had a flameout , all you did was tell the flight engineer to restart it when low enough that that was possible .
end question
start question
Experiences with LiFePO4 starter batteries in light aircraft or motorized gliders ?
Well , I 'll start by saying that ( at least to my knowledge , in the USA ) there are no certificated/PMA 'd / TSO 'd LiFePO4 batteries currently available on the market for use in certificated airframes . That means if you 're using a type-certificated aircraft ( or an LSA that did n't ship with one originally and for which there is no manufacturer-approved procedure to install one ) you 're basically out of luck unless you can convince your local FSDO to approve it as a one-off modification to your airframe . That said , there are some people using them in homebuilts . <URL> has used one on his SQ2000 to replace the starter/cranking battery , and <URL> which some folks seem to be using in ( experimental ) Carbon Cubs with a good deal of success . As to the batteries themselves , my aircraft is certificated , I 've got no desire to take it experimental , and my relationship with the local FSDO is not one where I could just walk in and say " I want to stick one of these in my plane . Sign off on the 337 form KTHXBYE ! " so this is all just theoretical : Operationally , LiFePO4 is a relatively safe chemistry . Unlike conventional lead-acid batteries it 's not going to spit sulfuric acid on your plane during charging or hard maneuvering . Unlike other Lithium-based chemistries ( say Lithium-Cobalt of Dreamliner fire fame ) it 's not as prone to blowing up or catching fire if short-circuited or otherwise abused ( though puncturing it is still a Bad Thing ) . Note however that as LiFePO4 is a lithium based chemistry water may not be the best extinguishing agent for a ruptured/burning battery . One of the potential decomposition products of a burning or ruptured LiFePO4 battery in the presence of water is Hydrogen Fluoride ( HF ) , which is rather nasty stuff . Handling and Charging is generally normal - as in you can connect it to your aircraft charging system with appropriately-rated breakers/fuses . Checking cell balance is recommended periodically , but without adequate information on the use of these batteries in aircraft we ca n't say what " periodically " means -- Every 10 hours ? Every 50 ? Annually ? ( If installing one of these in a homebuilt I 'd start with every 10 hours and work from there ) . Robustness should be superior to lead-acid batteries in all respects ( mechanical and electrical ) . For use in an aircraft a sturdy housing around the cells would be a Must Have to prevent the battery from being ruptured in the event of an incident , but that could be produced reasonably . Electrically LiFePO4 has a lower self-discharge rate , better tolerance for overcharging , and better ( flatter ) discharge curves - all Good Things . It is also stable over a wide range of temperatures , and at least theoretically will outlast lead-acid batteries on a charge/discharge cycle and calendar-year basis ( though again , without real-world utilization data we ca n't really say anything for sure here ) . Cost-Benefit is hard to qualify . LiFePO4 batteries can be had cheaper than " aircraft batteries " , largely owing to the fact that they 're not approved for use in certificated aircraft . Because of their higher energy density they 're also substantially lighter for the same amp-hour capacity , which is always attractive when we 're talking about aircraft applications . All of those benefits are n't worth a warm bucket of spit to me because I ca n't install one in my airplane ( though I 'd certainly consider it seriously if it were a viable option ) . If you can install one in your airplane as a replacement for your main battery it may well be worth considering .
Aircraft wings are designed for specific weight and cruise speed . When later the manufacturer wants to create a new variant with higher maximum weight , it should get longer wings for optimal efficiency . However , redesigning the wing is a lot of work , because extending the wing means the root bending moment increases , which requires stronger spar , which means heavier and all the calculations have to be redone . Here is where winglets get useful . They increase the effective wingspan , but while they are somewhat less efficient than extending the wing , they also cause lower increase of the root bending moment . Often , this smaller increase fits in the original extra margin , so winglets can be simply bolted on without having to redesign the wing , making the process much cheaper . That 's why we often see winglets on next generation of anything and rarely on the first generation . On first generation , they are designing the wing from scratch anyway , so they just make it appropriate length for minimum drag . The main reason to use winglets from the start is if the emerging design just slightly exceeds some size category for airport gates . Then it makes sense to reduce the span to fit and add winglets so the aircraft can be used at smaller -- and therefore cheaper and more common -- gates . You can read how winglets work in <URL> .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
No they ca n't . The cargo doors are secured and will not open mid-flight . Cargo holds are usually pressurized so opening the door anyway would cause depressurization . Also if the weight was too high the pilot should never have lifted off in the first place . Then after you theoretically throw the stuff off board think about what happens after to the stuff . It will drop down hard probably on someone 's roof . Only some military cargo planes with a back hatch are designed to jettison cargo .
Numbering the radios that I can think of offhand in the old 747-100 and -200 aircraft that I used to fly produces : 2 VHF voice communications radios . 2 VHF navigation radio receivers for receiving VOR and LOC signals . The LOC frequencies are paired with UHF frequencies for receiving glideslope signals . 1 ADF ( automatic direction finding ) receiver . 1 HF ( high frequency ) voice communication radio . 2 transponders to send whatever the " squawk " is when interrogated . # 1 was used on odd days of the month , # 2 on even days . There are a number of standard codes , but ATC assigns a 4-digit code to each aircraft during flight under their control . There is never an 8 or a 9 in the code because it 's an octal code . 1 SELCAL ( selective calling ) receiver , which will sound an alert if it receives a signal sent by a ground station . It may not be a separate radio but just a box listening for a tone on one of the voice communication radios . 1 weather radar , and , yes , radar is a radio ( radio detection and ranging ) employing both a transmitter and a receiver . 1 radar altimeter for use in the final stages of the landing approach . Some were " talkers " in that starting around 50 feet , they would announce your altitude in increments of 10 feet . 1 GPWS ( ground proximity warning system ) . I 'm not sure whether it and the radar altimeter shared a box/circuitry/antenaes . 1 GPS receiver , which we got only in the last few months before I retired in 1999 1 ELT ( emergency locator transmitter ) life raft locator beacons . I ca n't remember how many life rafts there were . life raft voice communication on 121.5 and maybe 243.0 . I may not have remembered them all . Modern transport category aircraft would also have SATCOM . Military aircraft would have UHF voice communications and mission appropriate weaponry radios .
It 's not easy finding out which aircraft rolled-out with the first standard CVR/FDR combination . In fact it 's so hard Google thought I was a robot , maybe I am . Here 's why , first this piece : 16 July 1964 COCKPIT voice recorders that will record all flight-deck conversations between the crew and ground control will be required in large passenger aircraft under new rules issued by the Federal Aviation Agency . Designed to assist in accident investigation and prevention , approved cockpit voice recorders will be required by July 1 , 1966 , in jets and turboprops weighing more than 12,500 lb . Pressurized four-engine piston aircraft will have to meet the requirement by January 1 , 1967 . The installation of cockpit voice recorders supplements the existing requirement for critical-data flight recorders on similar aircraft . The latter , says the FAA , have been found indispensable in helping investigators determine probable accident causes , thus aiding development of ways to prevent accidents . FDR 's preceded CVR 's and were already standard equipment on jets and turboprops weighing more than 12,500 lb . Then came the above CVR mandate to take effect by July 1966 . But , the CVR was not a new invention , and was already fitted to many aircraft , in fact , five months before the above piece we find this : 6 February 1964 Trans Canada Airlines has taken a world lead by announcing that it will spend \ $ 1,360,000 to equip all its 78 aircraft with maintenance recording equipment . The airline has been investigating the use of the Royston Midas system for more than a year and last October took the decision to equip its fleet . Final details of the actual installations are now being decided , preparatory to placing a firm order , some additional steps having been taken as a result of the DC-8 accident at Montreal last November . TCA are to have a 93-channel system covering engines , movable surfaces , hydraulic and electrical systems and 15min of cockpit voice , installed in a safe location in the tail of its DC-8 , DC-8F , Vanguard and Viscount aircraft . The installation will cost \ $ 20,000 for each of the larger aircraft and \ $ 15,000 for each Viscount and will be performed at Montreal and Winnipeg . Next airline to place a major order for Midas may well be TWA , who have been conducting a systematic and successful investigation of its application for some time . The RAF first equipped one Britannia of Transport Command and has now ordered five recorder systems and four complete playback installations , presaging much more extensive adoption . British United Airways have also been flying a Midas-equipped Britannia for some six months . Trans Canada Airlines being the first to equip a CVR/FDR / <URL> combo well before the FAA mandate . The CVR being an Australian invention , some sources say CVR 's were required in Australia before the US , but given how many aircraft manufacturers were there in the mid-60 's , it 's impossible to know which one was the first . No one was eager to market their know-why-you-crashed plane . Most articles I found from the 60 's were CVR manufacturers promoting their new products , but no aircraft manufacturer mentioning them . Example below : <URL> I 'm happy to take down this answer if someone else finds a definitive first . Source used : <URL>
A number of experiments and papers by Robert Hoey ( from the early 1990s on ) have used models of flat-winged soaring birds such as ravens . One of his papers is referenced in this broad review : <URL> One of his earlier papers is copied here : <URL> The topics include some discussion of low static stability of the model and the lack of vertical surfaces in real birds , as well as unknowns such as wing profile .
A required rule in the airport/facility directory is required . It is a very good idea to check the AFD entry online ( or on paper ) before you fly to a new airport . It just takes a second and you can learn important things , such as " NO DEPS AFT 2230 " or " PPR FOR TKOF ON RY 15 . CTC FBO 970-920-2016 " ( <URL> ) .
There are a few ways that yaw control is achieved . The easiest and the first to be successfully used would be to have cables from rudder pedals on each side of the rudder to deflect the control surface and control yaw . <URL> Airplane Flying Handbook pg 2-1 The first application to control yaw unsuccessfully was the development of gears and linkages that will control both roll and yaw with the pilot stick . It was quickly discovered that there are cases where you may need to use the controls separately . Yaw damper is an electronic device that sense yaw rate and will provide inputs to the rudder to keep the airplane coordinated . <URL> <URL>
This is some speculation , but one potential reason is that U.S. carriers already have fleets of Embraer and Bombardier jets in this basic size ( the Su-100 competes directly with the Embraer 190/195 and Bombardier 's larger CRJs and upcoming C-series ) . The companies making these jets are located in pretty firmly U.S.-allied countries that are unlikely to see any economic restrictions that might hamper the ability of U.S. regional carriers to procure new airframes or parts . The same can not be said for Russia , which from 1946 until 1991 was pretty much embargoed by NATO signatories , and the relationship between Russia and the West since then has been testy . While the U.S. currently does not have a trade embargo with Russian civilian jet production operations ( current sanctions attempt to specifically target military R&amp;D and direct investment ) , that can change in a heartbeat if Russia continues to throw its weight around in neighboring countries . Second , the seating capacity of this jet is a bit of an odd duck , as it blurs the line between the needs of regional vs. national U.S. carriers . The basic problem is that regionals , by their very nature , operate out of smaller cities with fewer potential passengers , at distances from major hubs that makes driving to that larger airport and flying from there more palatable for passengers . These considerations cause passenger count on regionals to drop off dramatically compared to longer " national " routes . The largest thing American Eagle currently flies is a Bombardier CRJ-900 ( 75 passengers in 2-class config ) , with the most commonly operated jet in AE 's fleet being the Embraer ERJ145 ( 50 seats all-economy ) . By comparison the smallest plane operated under the full American badge is the A319 ( 124 seats in 2-class config ) . There 's an obvious gap between the two subsidiaries ' aircraft capacities , but not much interest ( by American at least ) in filling it with a 100-seat jet like the SSJ100 ( or E195 or C100 ) . The primary reason is the collective bargaining agreements that pilots have with the airlines ; they include , among other things , a requirement segregating the aircraft used by regional versus national subsidiaries . If you want to fly a plane with more than 80-100 seats ( depending on exact terms of the agreement ) on the route , you 're paying a national airline flight crew the extra bucks to fly it ; it 's a violation of the CBA to put a 737 or A319 in the hands of a regional airline pilot because that takes the job away from the more senior pilots . A secondary reason is that U.S. domestic airlines like American tend to favor more , smaller flights over fewer larger ones . This allows the airline to " rightsize " the route schedule ( and its fleet ) to passenger demand more closely and with fewer disruptions . If on a given day of the week , 200 passengers need to get between a regional airport and a larger hub , the airline could do that with four 50-place jets , or 3 75-place jets , or two 100-place jets . Theoretically , if demand were constant , it could save money the fewer flights it made , as the cost of the 50-seat Embraer 's two-man flight crew would be roughly the same as the Sukhoi 's , but with the Sukhoi you spread that cost over twice the passengers so your gross margin is higher . However , an empty seat is a big fat goose-egg on the revenue for that seat for the flight , so if passenger demand varies ( and it does , from day to day and seasonally ) , running larger jets either forces you to turn away some customers that you ca n't fit into the reduced schedule , or add flights that run mostly empty . Neither of these are palatable options for the airline ; one pushes potential customers into the arms of their competitors , while the other has you running at least one flight that day costing tens of thousands of dollars for a handful of people with tickets whose regional component of the price might not even cover the pilot 's salary for the duration of the flight ( regionals are often " connecting " flights ; DFW to PHX costs about \ $ 320 , ACT to DFW about \ $ 300 , but ACT to PHX via DFW only costs about \ $ 360 , so depending on how you part it out , the ACT-DFW leg of ACT-PHX might only really make you \ $ 40 a seat , which might not break even if the plane 's full , much less if it 's half empty ) . So , assuming any plane an airline would buy or lease is profitable when it 's fully loaded with paying customers , American is more likely to successfully operate a route , and its entire network , using more smaller planes and scheduling a different number of interchangeable airframes and flight crews each day to maximize utilization , than it would be trying to also minimize the number of flights by using a variety of airframe sizes , which involves ensuring those airframes and the flight crews to run them are all in the right places at the right times ( and deadheading - flying an empty plane from where it is right now to where it will be needed later - is bad no matter what the plane size , but typic
The number one emergency in a glider is a tow rope break at low altitude , less than 200 feet above the ground with no appreciable headwind . Below 200 feet , the proper technique is to land straight ahead , which usually means landing off airport . Between 200ft and 500ft , it is possible to make a U-turn back to the runway , and land in the opposite direction in which you took off . The main hazard with this kind of landing is landing with a tailwind , and once the wheel touches the ground , the flight controls operate in the reverse direction . Above 500 feet , it is possible to fly an abbreviated pattern and land on the runway you took off from . Add 50 feet of altitude for each 10 knots of headwind . Some other tow emergencies are inability to release to tow rope , in which case the tow pilot needs to release the rope on his end ; engine failure of the tow-plane ; and a double tow rope release failure , which means the glider needs physically break the tow rope ( it has a pre-determined breaking strength of 80-200 % of the weight of the glider ) or to land behind the tow-plane . You can also run out of altitude and have to land in a field , which is called an " off airport landing . " Someone has to come and get you with a trailer , and you disassemble the glider and drive it away . One hazard is the off airport landing in a field , and the farmer comes out with his shotgun . Other hazards are flying into the clouds or into severe turbulence , which can happen when the glider pilot is flying " wave , " a kind of lift generated by strong winds in proximity to mountains . When thermaling , you are flying very tight steep turns , often with other sailplanes who are also trying to gain altitude . Everyone is supposed to fly the thermal in the same direction , and there is the hazard of colliding with other gliders . Reference : <URL>
By far , most civil aircraft lack radar to display conflicting traffic , and certainly to enhance traffic situational awareness . TCAS and the use of ADS-B are the most effective tools for traffic conflict and situational awareness information . Lidar is not presently utilized on civil aircraft for traffic avoidance . Keep in mind that TCAS essentially uses the same mechanisms as secondary ATC radar .
Because it is fairly easy to determine which runway is the correct one by other means . Runways are numbered based on their compass direction . The runway number will be the compass direction divided by 10 - for example , a runway with a direction of 150 degrees would be numbered 15 . This makes it possible to verify that you are using the correct runway by simply looking at your compass , to make sure the runway is pointing in the right direction . Even during day time in nice weather , this check is routinely performed before taking off by most pilots . Runway identifiers for parallel runways are suffixed with an ' L' for the left runway and an ' R ' for the right runway ( from the pilot perspective ) . At airports with three parallel runways , the identifier of the middle one will be suffixed with ' C ' for center . When approaching an airport at night , the runways will - as you point out - be clearly lit . It is easy for the pilot to spot any parallel runways and make sure they are approaching the correct one , simply by observing the relative position of the runways . During night or periods with degraded visibility , most traffic will make use of precision instrument approach systems , such as ILS , which will guide the plane precisely to the correct runway , without much risk for confusion . On the ground , clear airport signage make it nearly impossible to mistake which runway you are on . In addition , at busy airports with multiple runways , air traffic control service is likely to be provided . Air traffic controllers will monitor all aircraft movements on the maneuvering area and in the vicinity of the aerodrome , and will quickly be able to notify any pilot who is about to use a wrong runway . Another point is that lighted runway numbers would probably be pretty ineffecient , as the relatively small size of runway numbers would make it impossible to read them from a distance , even if they were lit . A pilot approaching a wrong runway would notice this too late to be able to make corrections , and would have to perform a missed approach . Granted , doing so would in many cases be better than landing on the wrong runway .
This is depending on which country the airplane is registered in , as the requirement to carry the logbook can be implemented per country , e.g. Germany requires the logbook to be carried onboard the airplane . [ LuftBO § 30 Abs . 5 ]
There are some good answers here . I would just like to add a few points : I do n't like this idea of feeling for ground effect . I think this is unreliable , and will be different in different aircraft and conditions . I can only imagine the aircraft in a steeper than usual descent when I think of this , and not detecting ground effect because you have flown through it and hit the ground - hard . Try to memorise the picture on the ground before take off , when sat in the cockpit . This will help . Be aware of your peripheral vision , particularly around the sides of the dash ( if you can see the runway that is ) . So while you should be looking in the middle distance , when the sides of the runway reach the same level as you , you are there . You should always have some sink rate , so flaring too much and flying level or climbing , is clearly not right . So for example , rather than just pulling back on the stick to flare , reduce power at the same time as flaring just a little . That should increase your sink unless you are still a bit fast ( Actually , if it does not thats an indicator that you are a bit fast ) . Finally , you see lots of pilots kind of " feeling for the ground " by pulling back and then easing off then pulling back some more . Eventually the aircraft runs out of airspeed and falls the last 5 feet or so and the landing is n't too bad . A better technique would be to fly to the runway , fly level a little while , and just trying to keep the aircraft level by gradually applying back pressure . The gradual reduction in speed does the rest . Also relax ! And practice ! That 's the hard bit given the cost of flying ! P.S. I 'm not a flight instructor , my only claim to fame is successfully landing a full motion 737 sim once with no instruction apart from air traffic responding to my Mayday call and telling me to fly the initial approach at 170 and threshold 130 ( and giving me vectors to the ILS ) . Hope this helps you though .
Could you create an aircraft using an jet engine/propeller/ducted fan on a gimbal ? Sure you ' could ' ; it is feasible by the laws of physics . But just because you can does not mean that you should . Setting up multiple points of lift on a manned aircraft seems like a good idea with a lot of advantages but is a Pandora 's Box of problems , the not the least of which is the grave risks of single point failure . Lift and control is totally reliant on balanced lift between multiple engines . Lose one engine and the craft departs from controlled flight and crashes . You better hope you have an ejection seat and/or parachute on board . Some solutions to these problems come in the form tiltrotor designs like the Agusta Westland 609 and the V-22 . But these aircraft have multiple redundancies in their design including a common transmission system between the rotors ; in case of a single engine failure , the good engine has enough power to drive both rotors . Tiltrotors can also glide like regular airplanes and utilize control surfaces during this and cruise flight . As a final note : Be careful in putting too much faith in Musk and other Silicon Valley whiz kids speculating about other design endeavors . The skills required to run a successful software company are often very different from that required to develop other artifacts like aircraft and automobiles , etc. . Musk was a genius with PayPal but nearly went bankrupt starting an electric car company and his development work with SpaceX has been punctuated with a series of spectacular failures . He also quietly withdrew from his proposed ' Hyperloop ' project , I suspect , because he really did n't understand what he was getting into there .
The key in holding the same speed as your wingman or the other aircraft is not to find the " perfect " throttle position , the key is to slightly adjust the throttle . When you look at cockpit-videos of those formation pilots ( like <URL> - move the camera to the throttle , it 's a 360-degree video ) , you can see that they are constantly moving the throttle . They almost never stick the throttle at one position . In that way , they can slightly adjust the speed and stay in formation with the wingman for a long time . While flying in close formation at high speed , it 's the same . Little adjustments of the throttle helps the pilot to keep the same speed as the wingman-aircraft . Flaps are not used in high-speed-flying because they can only operate below a maximum speed , otherwise they could get damaged . By using the air-brake , the handling of the aircraft changes , therefore the air-brake is not used very often while flying in formation . tl ; dr : Skill
There are basically two effects here : One is the ducted fan effect . Ducted fans are more efficient than open fans , specifically creating smaller vortices at the blade tips . The other is the fact that the tail rotor of a helicopter is not situated in an area with almost linear airflow along the rotor axis . It is also submitted to : A steady flow due to helicopter forward motion . This is coming from the side of the rotor , so affects opposite rotor blades differently . A buffeting flow from the h/c main rotor . This is an unsteady flow , also coming laterally from the point of view of the tail rotor ( actually , the top ) . Fenestron tail-rotor ducts can be considered a fairing that reduces airflow across the rotor . The end result is that the rotor blades are in a much smoother flow that helps reduce unwanted turbulence . This is one of the reasons such rotors are quieter than regular open tail-rotors ( the other being the fairing material absorbing some of the noise ) .
Essentially they plan on some fraction of the fleet undergoing some sort of maintenance check at any one time , so they build their flying schedule around the remaining fraction . And then there is some amount of flex due to things needing unscheduled maintenance or coming out of maintenance early . What makes the task easier is the fact that maintenance needs can be forecast fairly far in advance , and so the schedules can be built around a knowledge of how many aircraft are likely to be available . As an illustration ( not necessarily representative of any particular airline 's actual numbers ) , let 's say you have a fleet of 200 aircraft , and you know that on average each aircraft will be down for two 2-week heavy maintenance checks each year . That works out to essentially one month out of 12 , each aircraft is down , or a little under 10 % of the time . Add in a little time for shorter maintenance visits ( but still longer than an overnight ) , plus an allowance for the fact that some aircraft just need unscheduled work , and the maintenance planners may end up telling you to plan on 175 aircraft available each day . So that 's what you build your schedule around . Now let 's say that one aircraft takes a birdstrike &amp; an engine needs to be changed . That is now a hole in the schedule . It can be covered by cancelling a flight ( undesirable , but always an option ) . If an aircraft is finished with maintenance ahead of schedule ( say it was scheduled down all day for some work , but the work is actually done by noon ) , that aircraft may be able to be put into service . Perhaps it 's possible to delay some sort of minor maintenance a day ( not a heavy check , but something quicker ) and essentially create one aircraft-day of capacity , and push the check off to a weekend day when the schedule uses fewer aircraft . Or maybe the schedule was built with one or two aircraft available as spares that day . Depending on a variety of factors , spares may or may not be available , or even deliberately built into the schedule at all . Having an A-380 sitting around unused all day is an EXPENSIVE insurance policy against something unforeseen happening , but cancelling a flight on something that big is an expensive event when it happens ! If you operate all out of one giant hub and you know that your fleet of 500 aircraft ( flying 450 lines every day ) is likely to have 2-4 aircraft every day go to the hanger for unexpected maintenance , it 's probably a good financial decision to allocate two or three of those lines as dedicated spares . If your aircraft operate a point-to-point schedule , it 's harder ( or unfeasible ) to keep a spare aircraft at every airport you serve , " just in case " something happens to break there . There are complicated decisions that airlines will continuously evaluate to find what balance works best for their particular operation . In some cases , it may be possible to substitute an aircraft from a different fleet for a broken jet ... an MD80 goes to the hanger , and a 737 with a reserve crew flies the rest of the day that the MD80 would have flown . Or maybe a 757 broke , and the decision is to use the 737 to cover the flight , and re-accommodate the extra passengers that the 757 could hold that the 737 now ca n't . That 's a tactical decision that the airline 's operations center will make , considering the availability of both aircraft and crews , as well as the passenger loads . ( They also may pull a " healthy " 757 off of its less full schedule to fly in place of the broke 757 , use a 737 that was n't going to be very full to cover that 757 's route , put an RJ on the 737 's route that day , and cancel the RJ 's flights " due to maintenance . " And if that inconveniences 4 flights of 40-50 people who mostly just get delayed a few hours , that 's probably a better plan than stranding two flights of 200 people who 'd otherwise have no way to get where they 're going until tomorrow or later . )
Rather obviously , both of these situations are far from likely to occur . As a result , the following is just idle ( but hopefully informed ! ) speculation -- I do n't recommend experiments ! I 'm going to be a little bit cheeky in answering this question -- you 've asked if it 's possible for " a fixed wing aircraft to [ ... ] get the engines up to speed and fly off . " I 'll answer " Yes , but it depends on the aircraft . " For the fixed wing aircraft I usually fly , a <URL> , getting the engines up to speed is a doddle -- it 's powered by gravity ( and essentially stays aloft by the sun ) . What matters here is the <URL> of the aircraft in question , and how quickly the pilot could recover from the ' upset ' of being kicked off the top of a tall building , and land somewhere sensible ( which can only realistically happen once the aircraft is not stalled ) . If the relative airflow over the K21 's wings is about 35 knots ( 40 mph , 65 kph ) or greater , they generate enough lift to keep it airborne ( and going about 30 m forward for every meter down ) . If we assume that you 're a free-falling body , Newton ( in the form of $ v = u + at $ ) says that it 'll take about 1.8 seconds to reach that speed , and you 'll fall ( $ v ^ 2 = u ^ 2 +2 as $ ) about 16 meters during that time . Of course , you 'll be pointing nose down at the ground , accelerating , and needing to do something about it -- which will take time , and , more importantly distance . But , in the grand scheme of sky-scrapers , mountains and cliffs , 16.2 m is n't that high . Incidentally , for this reason , bungee launching is a traditional method of getting gliders airborne in parts of the world with big hills -- a team of runners using glorified elastic bands shoot brave pilots into the blue yonder , as illustrated by the picture below ( at the Long Mynd ) . So , given that a hill is enough height for a sailplane to take off , possibly for a few hours on a good day , I 'm reasonably sure that something like the John Hancock Centre would provide more than enough time for a pilot to recover from an odd attitude , loop forward to a nose-down dive , recover smoothly from it , and fly away ( from the big building behind him ) . The gif you linked to featured what looked a lot like a small private jet . I defer to the others on this site with a lot more turbofan experience than I , but I 'll just say this : given an hour that I spent in a 777 simulator , twenty minutes were spent going from " cold and dark " to pushback , I suspect you 'd have a much harder time doing it . Of course , rapid engine starts are possible in some aircraft . It depends a lot on the exact circumstances you 're asking ( and passenger jets tend not to be designed for inverted flight , for example ) . By all accounts , this situation is n't probably going to be very recoverable . If the blades are stationary when the aircraft starts falling , they 'll be fully stalled , resulting in a low-rotor RPM stall , which , depending on the brand of helicopter may not " be recoverable " ( e.g. , even with a working engine , Robinson helicopters are generally not recoverable from a very low rotor RPM stall ) . Autorotation is the driven motion of the rotor by the air falling through it , but , as pointed out , fully-stalled blades at any angle will not generate much torque ( or lift ) , and therefore be unable to arrest the rate of descent of the falling aircraft . I presume that the only exception would be a fuselage that could provide lift through another means , such as the <URL> .
end question
start question
Why do most commercial air-planes use hydraulics instead of electric/servo motors ?
I 'm sure it 's possible to use servo motors to get precise control of the ailerons , elevators or the rudder . No , it is n't . Primary flight control actuators require both rather high forces and quick response time . Electric motors can provide either , but both at the same time is a problem . Hydraulics is still better for that combination . Note that other actuators that do n't require the fast response time ( like flaps , gear or horizontal stabilizer foreplane ( elevator trim ) ) are electric in some aircraft .
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
Because the priorities for military aircraft ( engines ) are different . While it is true that the high bypass turbofans have better fuel economy ( in cruise ) and are less noisy , the low bypass engines offer significant advantages when we take into account their intended use in combat aircraft , such as : The response of the low bypass turbofans to throttle adjustments is faster compared to the high bypass turbofans ; the inertia is less and less air mass is involved ( for increasing the velocity ) - This is important during combat , when thrust requirements change rapidly . They have less frontal area , reducing the drag produced . For aircraft expected to fly at supersonic speeds , however briefly , this is important . Better thrust to weight ratio - 6:1 in Trent 1000 Vs 9:1 F119 ( used in F-22 Raptor ) - Even if the actual thrust produced by the low bypass turbofans is lesser , they produce more thrust per kg of engine , which means that the engine can be more compact in size . The low bypass turbofans are more efficient at higher speeds compared to the high bypass turbofans . The lesser size of the low-bypass turbofans mean that the aircraft can be made stealthier by ' burying ' the engines in the fuselage , which is all but impossible in case of high bypass turbofans .
The primary ( and most effective ) method to slow the jet down is aerobraking . In the T-38 at ~ 130 knots full aft stick is applied at a rate that prevents the jet from becoming airborne again . The stick will be back towards the seat pan . Fly the nosewheel down to the runway at ~ 100 knots and apply wheel brakes . In the F-16 the max aerobraking occurs at 13 AOA with speed brakes extended . You do not want to exceed 15 degrees of pitch angle to prevent scraping the burner can and speed brakes . The speed brakes will not fully extend while the nosewheel is not on the runway ( however , it can be overridden but increases the possibility that the speed brakes will scrape ) . In either case you do not want to let the nosewheel fall . You also do NOT apply wheel braking until the nosewheel is down .
In addition to repaints , aircraft are also periodically washed and treated to maintain the paint quality and reduce the build up of dust/grime/salt and other particulates . There are automated systems installed at some airports to clean airplanes as they taxi over these areas . Think of it as a drive through car wash , but for airplanes . The very first applications of these were actually for the US Navy because they have a requirement to wash aircraft due to their proximity to seawater . A company called tammermatic developed a system for the navy to clean airplanes directly on the field using a set of powerful jets . Images from the <URL> <URL> <URL> Then there is the <URL> ( PDF brochure ) , developed by PMW ( a company that makes concrete pumps ) to wash aircraft automatically . It was first used by Lufthansa in 1997 ( image cc : ARNE DEDERT / AFP ) : <URL>
Static wicks are mostly found on aircraft that fly in <URL> because static charges typically build up when flying in precipitation , not in clear air . So you wo n't find static wicks on helicopters that are certified only for visual conditions , like the R-22 , R-44 , Bell 206 , piston Enstroms , etc. , but you will find static wicks on helis that are certified for IFR . [ Static wicks ] are used on aircraft to allow the continuous satisfactory operation of onboard navigation and radio communication systems during precipitation ( p-static ) conditions . Precipitation static is an electrical charge on an airplane caused by flying through rain , snow , ice , or dust particles . When the aircraft charge is great enough , it discharges into the surrounding air . <URL>
On multiple <URL> threads they incorrectly say : The APU bleed is much cooler than the engine bleed system , and would be ineffective for WAI . But <URL> : The APU bleed temperature is unregulated and thus could damage the wing slats if used for anti-ice . <URL> Highlight shows regulation of engine bleed temperature .
The accounts that have been published of F-117 missions indicate that they generally flew single-ship , rather than formation missions , and it seems probable that B-2 aircraft do likewise . So in a sense , the important question for those aircraft is n't " how do I know where ( another stealth aircraft operating nearby ) IS , " but " how do I ensure that we do n't collide with each other , " and that 's a much easier question . There are several ways to " deconflict " multiple aircraft operating in relatively close proximity that do n't involve seeing or painting each other on radar . One aircraft operates at one altitude , another operates at a different altitude is one method , while timing over a point ( you get to waypoint ABC no later than 19:00:00 , and I 'll be there no sooner than 19:00:30 ) is another , and physical separation ( you stay west of this longitude line , I stay east ) is another . In practice , all of these can be combined to ensure that " your " mission is deconflicted from " my " mission . Of note , it is n't only stealth aircraft that will use tactics like this . Helicopters operating blacked out at night do n't have air-to-air radar , and even with NVG 's , the ability to see each other is n't reliable enough to plan on " see and avoid " and the " big sky theory " to preclude a mid-air , so they 'll use some fairly detailed deconfliction plans incorporating separation in space and time . More recent stealth aircraft such as the F-22 and F-35 are <URL> to have <URL> capabilities so that they can " see " each other without radar , by means of an encrypted , stealthy broadcast of each aircraft 's position and track . This would allow multiple aircraft to fly in formation ( not close formation , but perhaps 1000 ' or more apart ) , and to work with other aircraft equipped with the same datalink , so even though the bad guys would only be able to see the non-stealth aircraft on radar , the friendlies could all see each other .
This principle method of airborne sub-hunting is using sonar to search a wide area around your ships in the direction of advance . The intent is less tracking subs as it is to deter them from obtaining a firing solution on your ships . ASW is a long , complex topic . This answer will be brief unless someone has more questions . Airborne sensors include : Sonobuoys Passive - ( omnidirectional or directional ) - subs are very quiet today . Detection ranges is extremely short . < 100 m by some accounts . Active - all subs are coated with anechoic tiles to absorb acoustic energy A P-3 would go through about 10-30 buoys over a 6-10 hour mission Some <URL> are available . <URL> of sonobuoy deployment and operation <URL> <URL> <URL> Dipping sonar Unique to ASW helos <URL> Credit : <URL> MAD - magnetic anomaly detector - The large boom extending behind the tail : <URL> Credit : <URL> looks for large metallic masses limitations : short range ( 100s of meters ) , which requires a/c to fly very low over the surface ( increasing airframe fatigue and fuel consumption ) . Descending from cruising altitude also takes time . upside : good localization ( spatial accuracy ) , relatively few false positives . downsides : Equipment is large and heavy . For these reasons , a MAD boom is not included on the current P-8 , the navy 's newest long range maritime patrol a/c . Counter-measures : Sub can dive deeper to reduce their chances of being detected . Typical SSN operating depths are 400 m . The Type 214 claims a 700 m test depth . Modern subs are made from non-magnetic steels ( eg , German Type 212 , Type 214 ) or titanium ( Soviet Sierra , Alfa , and Papa class SSNs , portions of the Typhoon 's 10 pressure hulls ) . Subs also undergo degaussing <URL> LA-class USS Toledo ( SSN-769 ) prepares to get underway after four days at the Magnetic Silencing Facility . 5 Feb 2010 . Credit : <URL> Radar - Historically , more useful for detecting subs on the surface , forcing them to spend more time underwater , where they were less effective . For much of WWII , German U-boats were essentially submersible torpedo boats . Most of their attacks were actually made on the surface . Today , our improved radars can detect submarine periscopes , forcing subs to take only very short glimpses . The periscope is actual quite useful for ID-ing targets and obtaining ranges much more quickly than stalking with sonar alone . Visual If you 're directly above a sub at shallow depth , you can see it . Needless to say , this is extremely rare , but is one reason operating in shallow , littoral waters is dangerous . If you 're lucky , you might spot a periscope wake . It 's also unlikely you 'll see a surface wake . At periscope depth , subs move very slowly . And at operating depths , surface wakes are extremely minute , likely undetectable even by radar and advanced processing , although attempts have been made . <URL> <URL> Other non-acoustic methods Chemical - to detect snorkeling subs recharging their batteries LIDAR - potentially faster than MAD . Limited depth and " sweep width . " Not operation . Radar to detect the minute thermals from warm water heated by reactors . ( Claimed by Russians , not demonstrated by US . ) Examples Land-based maritime patrol aircraft examples : P-3 Orion ( modded L-188 Electra ) , P-8 Poseidon , , P-8 Poseidon ( modded 737-800ERX ) . <URL> Indian variant shown . Source . BAE Nimrod ( based on the de Havilland Comet ) <URL> <URL> Carrier based platforms include : S-3 Viking , SH-60 Seahawk SH-60 Seahawk - sensors includes a variable-depth active/passive sonar , sonobuoys , and a MAD . MAD bird ( orange/red ) : <URL> Credit : <URL> Sonobuoys are launched from the Connect-4 <URL> <URL>
Because it makes you sound cool and very Top Gun ! Negative Ghostrider . The pattern is full Seriously though , short words , especially at the end and beginning of transmissions are often clipped . When everything is busy , a question might only need a " yes/no " reply . Yes/no is easily lost in radio communication . Affirm/negative are not . Also , with English native speakers , yes and no are absolute . In some languages , yes and no are relative to the question . Interpret this : Do n't you have enough fuel to make the field ? Yes , we do n't . or No , we do n't . Of course , the question is not good as it contains a negative but , if a question can only have an " affirmative or negative " response , it also helps the questioner to form a good question : Can you make the field ? This can only be " affirmative ( always shortened to " affirm " to avoid confusion ) or " negative " . There is no interpretation .
What kind of plane is good for this type of flight ? The cheap kind . Joking aside , the exact airplane to use depends on the size of the banners or billboards you 're going to be towing , but generally speaking you want something reasonably rugged , with good slow flight characteristics , sufficient engine power to be able to overcome the added drag from the banner , and , hopefully , some decent fuel consumption . I 'm not entirely kidding about the cheap part though ; banner towing is hard on the airplanes and carries a higher-than-average degree of risk , so you do want to stay away from airplanes that will be expensive to fix , if you can help it . As for specific types , I 've seen banners towed with everything from -152 s to Grumman Agcats ; a large banner tow operation apparently had a Super Cub with an O-540 bolted to it , so you 'll see a ton of different things , but tailwheels seem to be the norm , at least in the US , and many outfits will make additional modifications such as removing engine cowlings to help with cooling . With banners they appear to be flying slower than usual . Is this just an illusion ? No , they are indeed flying slower . First of all , the added drag from the banner slows the airplane down all by itself . Secondly , you 're being paid to advertise , so you want to make sure that people can read whatever sign you 're towing . You 're not flying the ragged edge of the stall ( it 's dangerous , uneconomical , and unnecessarily hard on the engine ) , but you 're probably going to be flying on the backside of the power curve . What are the practical or regulatory requirements that the plane must meet to be capable ? In addition to the practical considerations we 've talked about above , banner towing operations require a waiver from the FAA . The company has to apply for it and every pilot must be trained in banner tow operations , pass a review from an approved FAA inspector ( who will be watching you perform picks and drops from the ground ) , and be added to the waiver . The aircraft and tow hitch mechanisms also have to be inspected and approved for banner tow operations , and added to the waiver . <URL> is the current FAA Banner Tow Information handbook , covering equipment , operations , waiver information , and other assorted miscellaneous if you 're curious to learn more .
Fear of number 13 is known as <URL> . I randomly entered some flight numbers on <URL> and found that <URL> one has row 13 ( aircraft is B737 ) : In <URL> case , there is no 13th row : However , in <URL> case , several row numbers ( 12 , 13 , 14 ) are skipped to adjust galleys and lavatories . This could be that they were added later or can be removed in future to add more rows . The bottom line is that regardless of what you name it , there remains a 13th row . If a plane is about to crash ( God forbid ) I would be worried about being on the plane , rather than just the seat number . There are several studies that safest seats are in the back . So , rows 1-12 may not be as unlucky as row 13 . If you have 12 million dollars and I can give you one million more1 , would you not take it ? In several parts of the world <URL> . 1Trust me , I will not do it , even if I have that much money .
AC is easier to produce with the engines , that act as generators . The engines have a rotating shaft that it is easily equipped with magnetic dipoles all around . Then , depending on the instrument , the current is either used directly or , by the use of converters , in DC form as not only it is easier to produce , it is also easier to convert . So electronic devices that uses 12 , 5 or 3V may contain their own voltage converter ( though this is less and less true with modern efficient switch-mode converters ) . If DC conversion was as much efficient as AC conversion , we would n't see high-voltage lines . Last but not least , it 's easier to switch , because the current is null twice per cycle . DC must be switched at full current , which is expensive and weight costly . ( thanks mins )
Zulu means the letter Z in radio communication . The letter Z designates UTC time . There is actually <URL> for each letter of the alphabet ( except J ) : Alpha time zone : UTC + 1 Bravo time zone : UTC + 2 ... India time zone : UTC + 9 Kilo time zone : UTC + 10 Lima time zone : UTC + 11 Mike time zone : UTC + 12 November time zone : UTC - 1 ... X-ray time zone : UTC - 11 Yankee time zone : UTC - 12 Zulu time zone : UTC + 0 However , the other time zones are seldom referenced in aviation . Why do we use UTC time instead of local time ? Because flights often cross time zones . Imagine this : the time now is 11:59 . We will take off at 12:30 and fly west . Afterwards , at around 11:48 , we will be 15 nautical miles away from the airport ... ... ... ... . Huh ?
It helps to know the objective of both ICAO and IATA to understand when which code is used . <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) is a UN-body which focusses on international harmonization of civil aviation regulations . ICAO codes are used for " official " purposes such as Air Traffic Control ; E.g. flight plans use ICAO codes for airports and airline flight identification . <URL> ( International Air Transport Association ) is a trade association that focusses on making air traffic businesses safe , secure , reliable and efficient . IATA codes are mainly used for ticketing . E.g. travel itineraries use IATA codes for airports and IATA flight numbers .
Normally , an airfoil is optimized for best lift/drag ( L/D ) efficiency for a certain flight profile ( usually a compromise ) . Since most of the time for most aircraft inverted flight is not an issue , you get an airfoil that is optimized for upright flight , and this is best achieved with asymmetric geometries . However , depending on the <URL> any airfoil can ( and will ) generate " negative " lift , only much less efficiently so , than for the optimized regime , resulting in increased drag . The desired angle of attack for conventional aerodynamically controlled aircraft is maintained by the elevator . For symmetric airfoils commonly used for aerobatic planes , the performance for upright and inverted flight is quite similar . For 99 % of all other airfoils inverted flight will work up to a certain point , depending on the available power , CG , the maximum lift and rudder forces availabe before stall . As a result , for some aircraft , a stable inverted flight can not be maintained , while for others it could be ( but with varying penalty to performance , stall speed etc ) . The aerodynamical possiblity of inverted flight is of course limited by structural and other considerations .
The problems are two-fold : The airspeed is much higher in flight than when landing , so the thrust reverser doors would have to be much stronger , and therefore heavier to withstand the additional forces , along with the relative wind making them harder to close . What happens when it gets stuck in the deployed position ? Now you have to shut down a perfectly good engine and have additional drag on the airplane while in flight . ( Bonus ) It is n't really needed on most airplanes with spoilers , flaps , etc. that accomplish the same thing .
I 'll assume you 're referring to astronaut helmets only because of their sunglasses-like reflective properties against visual light , not other wavelengths . There are some small efforts by manufacturers to add some reflective coatings to their windshields . The 787 has <URL> that had a gold-based heating film that also reflected infrared light - useful because a cockpit can heat up quickly . Military jets like the F-16 can have golden-tinted " Have Glass " cockpit windows but <URL> , not to filter visual light . There are several reasons visible-light reflective windshields are never seen . The first is that optically it 's very difficult to have reflection only go one way . Reflective coatings work well for sunglasses and some car windows because the light coming in can be assumed to be much brighter than the light going out , so glare from inside is not a huge problem . In an aircraft , where that tiny light on the horizon could be a several-ton aircraft closing in fast , the requirements for night vision are a bit higher . It should be noted that , for cars , reflective or tinted windshields are illegal in the USA for a number of reasons , including visibility . The second reason is that bright outside light is a solved problem , so we do n't have to resort to desperate measures like permanent reflective tinting . Sunglasses use by pilots , even though <URL> , is so widespread there 's literally a style of sunglasses named " aviators " and the FAA has a safety brochure on selecting sunglasses ( <URL> ) . If the pilot does n't like sunglasses , they can <URL> .
The RAT is automatically deployed on many aircraft , including the CRJ and A320 series , but it can be manually released as well . In between the loss of power and the RAT spins up you have the batteries to fall back to which are normally fully charged . The Airbus Manual has the following comment on the APU : In case of total loss of all main generators , the RAT is automatically extended and drives the emergency generator via a hydraulic motor . The EMER GEN supplies the AC ESS BUS and the DC ESS BUS via the ESS TR . The ECAM WD remains powered , with associated procedures presented . Alternate law is operative through ELAC 1 and SEC 1 ( <URL> ) While this is for the CRJ , who call it an Air Driven Generator ( ADG ) : In the event of a complete AC power failure in flight , the ADG will automatically deploy and supply emergency AC power to the ADG bus and to the AC essential bus . If the automatic deploy function fails , the ADG can be deployed manually by pulling the ADG manual release handle on the ADG CONTROL control panel at the rear of the center console . ( <URL> ) A RAT , with the spring loaded actuator visible : I think most if not all are spring loaded , and have a little help from gravity on the way . You 'll also notice that many are stored to be pushed into place by the jetstream . Have a look at this <URL> below around 0:20 . The slow upwards motion suggests that it 's having to reload the spring energy at 1:20 . The doors are attached mechanically . Taking a look at the Airbus Electrical System : <URL> As can be seen , there 's a hierarchy to electrical power use , and the battery feeds the essential busses , where the RAT deployment would be included . If I 'm not mistaken , power is very limited : You loose some of the more fancy control computers along with the non-necessary stuff , like the copilot 's displays , as can be seen in the following <URL> . Bear in mind that some aircraft , such as the 747 ( up to -400 ) , do not have a RAT on the aircraft , and rely on the windmilling engines to provide sufficient hydraulics to control the aircraft , and as such there 's no deployment of sorts necessary .
Aerodynamically , you want the aspect ratio to be as high as it can be ( for a given wing area ) . You want infinite wingspan , because that results in no induced drag . But that is not very practical at airports , and a bit heavy . Structurally , you want short stubby wings because they have a very low bending moment . In fact structurally , you want zero wing span . But that is not very practical at take-off time . As always , aerodynamic desirability implies structural objections , and vice versa . The aerodynamicists need to strike a deal with the structures engineers : a balance needs to be found . As long a wing span as possible , with as thick a profile as possible , using a material that is as light as possible . So a long wingspan is desirable and is only limited by structural constraints : as you say , at a certain point the longer wing span 's increased weight will offset any aerodynamic advantages . In aluminium , the optimum was reached over the course of a few decades . But now there is a new material with a better strength/weight ratio : composite carbon fibre . Carbon is much stronger than aluminium , and it is woven in a matrix of resin , with most wires running in the direction of highest stress . With carbon fibre , even the direction of material strength can be optimised . And the B787 and A350 have even higher aspect ratios than the B777 .
end question
start question
How does a CFI know what endorsements to give ?
Lets cover your specific questions first . Let 's say someone has a helicopter license and wants to get their private pilot ? Do they have to take a knowledge test ? ( it appears I was initially incorrect and the knowledge test does not need to be <URL> below ) <URL> you do n't need to retake the knowledge test ( b ) Additional aircraft category rating . A person who applies to add a category rating to a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must complete the training and have the applicable aeronautical experience . ( 2 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 3 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . The FAR 's pretty much cover all the the various cases however they can be a bit confusing . What if someone is a sports pilot and wants to upgrade to a private pilot , what do they have to do ? How do you figure it out ? In terms of endorsements you must obtain an endorsement for what ever it is you are going to do ( exam , practical test , etc. ) even if you have a license in another class or category . For example if you are going to take the PPL check ride you need an endorsement for that check ride ( even if you have a sport pilots license ) . Now when it comes to training things may differ . Your training for a PPL will obviously be shorter if you have a sport pilots license but you will still be required to take the Private Pilots Single Engine Land written test and practical test and receive endorsements to do so , to get a PPL . This site covers the <URL> nicely . If you are transitioning from sport to private I would imagine you may be able to complete all the requirements for a PPL without having received the student solo endorsement since you could in theory have accomplished all your solo flight requirements as a sport pilot . Personal Note : Its always a good idea to speak with your DPE before taking any practical test and ask what endorsements he is expecting to see in your log book ( which should be the ones that are required and no more ( or less for that matter ) ) . When I went for my check ride the wording for the PPL practical endorsement had changed recently and he warned me that many instructors mess up the wording or the pre printed ones in the log book are out of date and it can be an issue . I had my instructor add the necessary line before I went for my check ride .
Helicopters use more fuel than airplanes ( considering everything else being equal ) . When helicopters are traveling slow , they need more energy to hold their weight . When traveling fast ( according to their standards ) , the rotor drag is very high . This is the primary reason they need more power . More Power = More Fuel . Conventional aircraft have much less drag at a given weight and speed than a helicopter . Helicopters travel slow . When they burn more fuel per hour and travel slowly , fuel consumption per mile is much worse . They also stay low . Most have turbine engines , turbines burn lots of fuel at low altitudes . Wikipedia has a good article about <URL> . Two-seater and four-seater flying at 250 km/h with old generation engines can burn 25 to 40 liters per flight hour , 3 to 5 liters per 100 passenger km . The Sikorsky S-76C + + twin turbine helicopter gets about 1.65 mpg-US ( 143 L/100 km ; 1.98 mpg-imp ) at 140 knots ( 260 km/h ; 160 mph ) and carries 12 for about 19.8 passenger-miles per gallon ( 11.9 litres per 100 passenger km ) .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
TL ; DR : according to the most usual meanings of these acronyms : ACARS and CPDLC are applications VDL is a point-to-point communication technology To give an everyday-world analogy , the relationship between VDL and CPDLC/ACARS is the same as the relationship between 3G/4G and the web browser/facewhatstime app of your smartphone . More detailed answer From a telecommunication point of view , we represent the different functions of a network by <URL> . Ideally , one can replace the technology used to implement a given layer by any equivalent technology without impacting the other layers . The VHF Data Link ( VDL ) is a technology used to implement the functions of the <URL> and <URL> . It means that it is a technology designed to carry any digital data directly from one " device " ( aircraft or ground station ) to another ( resp . ground station or aircraft ) , independently of its actual content . There are different versions of <URL> , namely modes 1 to 4 . The current deployments of VDL in europe by ANSPs use VDL mode 2 . CPDLC is an application ( <URL> ) . It is directly facing the user , and can use any layer below it ( in particular , it can use VDL , HFDL or satcom as layers 1/2 ) ACARS is ... a more ambiguous word . It predates the OSI model , and at first it described both the application ( text-oriented transmission ) and the point-to-point communication technology . Nowadays , pilots use the word ACARS to talk about the application ( the printer in the cockpit ) , and that particular application can , as any application , use any underlying link layer ( VDL , HFDL , satcom ... ) . But the old meaning of " ACARS " to describe the original blob of " point-to-point technology + network + application " can still be found today , for example in the acronym POA ( plain old ACARS ) . By the way , the point-to-point technology originally used by ACARS is also called VDL mode 1 .
Let 's remember what a transponder code is used for in the first place . When transmitting a non-discrete code , such as 1200 , ATC has no way1 of telling you apart from other aircraft transmitting the same code . On the ATC radar , you will simply show up as something like " 1200/A030 " where 1200 is the code transmitted and A030 ( 3000FT ) is you mode C altitude . To provide you with radar service , ATC has to be able to identify you on the radar , which means that they have to be able to distinctly associate your flight with a specific track on the radar . They do this using transponder codes2 . An assigned ( discrete ) transponder code will be unique for a flight within a given area . Say you are instructed to squawk 2174 , you will now show up on the screen as " 2174/A030 " , and because ATC knows that you , and no one else in the area , is squawking 2174 , they know that they are you looking at you . Your question is , how does ATC keep track of the assigned transponder codes ? Today this is mostly an automated process . A central flight data processing system ( or the US equivalent - sorry for my European terminology ) contains a database of all active flightplans as well as their assigned transponder codes . When a discrete transponder code is received by the ATM system , it will automatically query this database , asking for any flightplan information associated with this specific transponder code . It will then show the received information on the radar screen . Essentially , the transponder code is a database key , allowing the system to look up information about your flight and show it to the controller . Now you are no longer shown on the radar with just your transponder code and mode C altitude , because the system has a lot more information about you . You might be shown as something like " N12345/A030/C172 " ( callsign/altitude/aircraft type ) . The exact label varies greatly from system to system - the point here being that the system is now able to show specific information from your flightplan rather than just generic information submitted by your transponder . So how does a controller know if you have been assigned a transponder code or not ? If you have , you will be shown on their radar screen as a full label , with callsign etc. . If not , your callsign is no where to be found on the radar , and they will have to guess that you are probably one of the ( potentially many ) 1200-tracks on the screen . 1 : They can in fact identify you by other means , such as requesting your exact position and heading , but identification with the help of transponder is a lot simpler . 2 : Normal 4-digit transponder codes are slowly being replaced by mode-S transponders , which transmit a unique 24-bit aircraft identifier at all times to the radar system . But that 's probably best left for another question .
It very much depends on the tail-dragger . Many vintage aircraft do n't have wheel brakes at all and steer using the rudder , which has the tail wheel or skid attached to it . On these aircraft , steering is ineffective at low speeds , just like when steering a ship with a rudder . Unlike on a ship , you can increase your steerage by adding a burst of power and using the slipstream over the rudder to push it sideways . Very experienced pilots can turn almost on the spot at very low speeds this way , but in a tricky situation it 's a judgement call whether to make a wider turn at low speed or add power and risk speeding up . For this reason it 's good to have a little extra room , to make sure you can stop completely at any point and still have room to make the turn . Dan Pichelman makes a good points in the comments . If you take a tricycle and a tail-dragger with the same turning circle , and look at the tyre marks on the ground , the tail-dragger 's marks will be much bigger . That tail wheel right at the aftermost point traces out a huge circle , while the tricycle 's wheels are very close together . For this reason , you need the whole turning circle to be free from obstacles such as edge markers and lights , while a tricycle can do a full turn with its tail overhanging any obstructions . One more taxiing issue is visibility . Tail-draggers ( again , especially earlier ones ) are nose-high on the ground , and the engine cowling tends to prevent the pilot seeing straight forward . There have been many incidents of tail-draggers taxiing right onto smaller aircraft or obstructions straight ahead of them . ( It used to be very common with Spitfires . ) To avoid this , pilots are taught to weave as they taxi , so they can always check the ground ahead by looking either side of the nose . ( Think of it like the clearing turns you make on a long climb . ) While a tricycle might go straight along a taxiway it can only just fit into , a tail-dragger wants a much wider taxiway so that it can weave like this . You also need to plan how you 're going to make the weave go into a turn when you reach a corner : if you got to the corner as you 'd weaved right over to its inside , pointing towards the outside of the corner , you 'd need much more room to make the turn . For all these reasons , while it 's entirely possible for a good pilot on a good day to make turns just as tight as a similar-sized tricycle aircraft , it 's a good idea to allow a larger unobstructed space on straights and corners if you 're expecting tail-draggers , especially students .
<URL> has a lot of programs . Government programs are confusing . Regarding the two you mention ... Global Entry basically expedites the Customs process for pre-approved travelers , making use of an automated kiosk . The service is available at <URL> , generally major aiports . ClearlyNormally , this program is meant for the commercial traveler . However , large international GA destinations can have this service as well . Example : FLL , one of the nation 's busiest international GA airports . <URL> . <URL> means that traveler processing/aircraft inspection are handled before the flight , rather than upon arrival in the US . But , this is n't very widespread yet . Private aircraft preclearance processing is only available at Shannon , Ireland and Oranjestad , Aruba . And the list of airports you can fly to , from what I have seen , is smaller than the list of Ports of Entry . So no , neither of these programs really helps you out as a Canada/US travelling GA pilot . They are n't for small airports . You have to deal with <URL> , and <URL> :)
<URL> lists renewal requirements for flight instructors . If your CFI certificate is still valid ( unexpired ) than you can renew by any one of the following : Getting a new rating on your CFI certificate or re-taking a practical test for an existing rating on your CFI certificate ( 1 ) Passing a practical test for -- ( i ) One of the ratings listed on the current flight instructor certificate ; or ( ii ) An additional flight instructor rating ; or Having had at least 5 students in the last 2 years with an 80 % or higher pass rate ( i ) A record of training students showing that , during the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 students for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of those students passed that test on the first attempt . Being a check pilot , chief flight instructor , check airman or flight instructor for a part 121 or 135 operation and active in pilot evaluation during the last 2 years ( ii ) A record showing that , within the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot , chief flight instructor , company check airman , or flight instructor in a part 121 or part 135 operation , or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots . Completing an approved refresher course within the preceding 3 months ( iii ) A graduation certificate showing that , within the preceding 3 calendar months , the person has successfully completed an approved flight instructor refresher course consisting of ground training or flight training , or a combination of both . Passing a US armed forces military instructor proficiency check in the preceding 12 months . ( iv ) A record showing that , within the preceding 12 months from the month of application , the flight instructor passed an official U.S. Armed Forces military instructor pilot proficiency check . If you are not actively instructing and just maintaining your certificate the easiest method is the approved refresher course . There are a few weekend workshops and a online courses that are approved . The last time I did this method I used an online course and submitted the 8710 via IACRA and completed the whole thing over a weekend and with no physical paperwork . If your certificate has expired , even if you have completed the above but failed to submit the proper paperwork in time , then you can no longer do this the easy way and have to look at <URL> . To reinstate an expired certificate you must either pass a practical test for one of your existing CFI ratings or pass a practical test for a new rating for your CFI certificate .
Your question : What is the logic behind the delay of the signal and how is the echo signal later bound with the signal sent ? Short answer A PESA is an array of individual antennas . Each antenna radiates the same signal , except the phase . The phase adjustment for each antenna allows for the non-moving array to behave like if it could be rotated , i.e. the direction the energy is sent to or receive from can be selected by adjusting the phase for the individual antennas . Varying the signal phase for an individual antenna of the array can be done by delaying the signal for this antenna , which in turn is as easy as making the electrical conductor ( or waves guide ) between the oscillator and the antenna longer . PESA <URL> exactly like another more traditional one with a single rotating antenna . A signal sent by a PESA , after it has been sent , is indistinguishable from a signal sent by a rotating antenna radar . Details The principle of a primary radar is to send a radio signal in a given direction and wait for a possible echo . The direction of the radiation pattern is used in determining the direction ( azimuth and elevation ) of the reflecting object . The antenna must be very directional ( small solid angle of the radiation pattern ) , else the angle determination can not be precise . <URL> Radiation pattern of an antenna with a parabolic reflector ( <URL> ) That means the antenna must be rotated to scan a useful portion of the sky ( or ground ) . To clarify the wording used , an antenna is usually composed of : A radiator which receives the signal to be transmitted ( it also collects the waves in reception ) . The radiator is the interface between electrons and waves and vice-versa . A reflector used to reflect the waves from the radiator ( it also focuses the waves on the radiator in reception ) . Sometimes directors to narrow the radiation pattern of the system . The radiation pattern of an antenna is mostly determined by the shape of the reflector ( e.g. the <URL> ) which only illuminates a given fraction of the space and , due to interferences , also varies the energy based on the direction the energy is sent to or received from . Due to the reflector , a signal from the radiator will usually travels using different paths created by the multiple reflections . Interferences are the result of combining the electromagnetic signals at a given point . For signals having the same frequency , the phase determines if signals are added ( same phase ) or canceled ( opposite phases ) . <URL> Phase determines how signals interfere ( <URL> ) We can apply this phenomenon to the multiple signals created in an antenna composed of a radiator and a cylindrical reflector . <URL> Signals summation on a cylindrical reflector antenna creates a privileged direction of radiation with some secondary ( unwanted ) lobes ( <URL> ) Array of radiators ( electronically scanned array , ESA ) Another way of varying the privileged direction of a radiation pattern is to create interferences on a voluntary basis , so that they create a stronger signal in the desired direction , and a weaker signal elsewhere . The advantage is that this electronic direction change can be much quicker than a mechanical rotation . One way to create interferences is to send the radar signal from an array of small radiators instead of a single big one . <URL> Close-up of the front of the old Cobra Judy radar ( <URL> ) This type of array is quite familiar under the name interferometer in the field of astrophysics : <URL> Siberian Solar Radio Telescope ( SSRT ) interferometer observing the Sun at 5.7 GHz ( <URL> ) If all radiators are fed with the same signal , then interferences will occur the same way on the whole surface and the result will be that the direction perpendicular to the array is privileged ( image on the left side ) . <URL> Electronic beam-deflection ( left : bore sight , right : deflected ( <URL> ) The right side of the image shows what happens if the signal sent to the individual radiators is delayed in a coordinated way : Delay increases from right to left on the array . It must be remembered that delay means phase here . The direction of the signal is now oblique due to the the location of constructive and destructive interferences . The red circles indicates signal with the same phase . See this <URL> too . Delaying an electric signal is quite easy : Just increase the length of the conductor ( see <URL> ) . A length variation between 0 and the wave length ( e.g. 10 cm for a wavelength of 10 cm -- 3 GHz ) allows to sweep the whole range of possible phase values from 0 to 360 ° . Indeed there are other ways to delay a signal without adjusting the length , but they are electrically equivalent . When signals are digitized , it 's really easy to process them , there is less electro-mechanical constraints . By varying the phase on individual radiators we can steer the signal as if the antenna had been rotated , but we can also focus the energy on a target . <URL> ( <URL> ) PESA vs AESA There are two approach
Whether an airport has PAPI lights or not is indicated on the approach charts . For instance <URL> , there is a schematic of the airport at the bottom of page 3 that shows you where the PAPI is on the airfield . If you are looking for airports in France , you can find all visual approach charts on the <URL> . Otherwise , <URL> has various links to approach chart ressources . Edit : If there is not indication concerning the location of the PAPI on the approach chart , you can refer to page 40 of <URL> . The schematic here describes the standard location of the PAPI relatively to the strip .
The VOR and ILS CDI indicates difference , in degrees , between the radial selected and the radial sensed . If the plane was far from the VOR and we turn the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI will move to one side . If the plane was close to the VOR and we turned the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI would move exactly as much , because it indicates the angular difference in degrees . This is in contrast to a CDI slaved to GPS , which indeed indicates lateral distance from the selected track in miles ( en-route ; GPS approach has to simulate ILS ) . VOR does nothing with DME . DME is completely independent piece of equipment that was introduced later than VOR . The only relation is that there is a standard correspondence between VOR and DME channels and the DME receiver automatically tunes to the DME frequency corresponding to the VOR or ILS frequency tuned on your VOR/ILS receiver .
Listen . Climbing aircraft need more thrust , so the noise they produce is related to their vertical speed . Since most excess performance is available at low speed , a slowly flying aircraft producing a lot of noise will most likely be climbing . Once you gain a little experience , the pitch of the engine and propeller sound of piston-engined aircraft will be a very good indicator of their thrust setting . This does n't work for gliders . Here you need to wait to be sure if they are climbing or descending . Only when you see that the glider flies with speed brakes extended you can be sure instantly that it is descending .
Flow conditions are not so different , only the reaction of the flow to an obstacle is . By <URL> , supersonic flow is handled easily , and <URL> in decelerating and compressing the flow . However , supersonic flow demands sharp intake lips which are hit by the flow at the right angle , otherwise drag rises quickly to intolerable levels . These sharp lips will cause flow separation in subsonic flow when hit by the flow at an angle , so aerodynamic tricks like <URL> need to be added to the intake to keep flow angles at the intake lips in check . Note that the intake will ensure a <URL> at the compressor face of the engine , regardless of flight speed . Therefore , the engine will not need to be optimized for supersonic flight . However , to keep its frontal area low and the <URL> , its <URL> should be low . The only troubles this causes are increased engine fuel consumption and <URL> .
Assuming a regular private pilot 's license ( i.e. not sport/recreation ) , a part 61 instructor , and a rented aircraft , then you need to budget for the following : Aircraft rental ( this usually includes oil and fuel ) Instructor time ( air and ground ) Materials ( books , DVDs , charts , fuel tester etc. ) as recommended by your instructor Headset Third-class medical Insurance Written test fee Examiner 's fee for the actual test If we assume the aircraft costs \ $ 120/hr wet ( i.e. including oil and fuel ) , an instructor costs \ $ 40/hr and you need 50 hours to be ready for the test ( 40 is the minimum required ) then you can do a calculation like this : 35 flying hours with instructor : \ $ 5600 15 flying hours solo : \ $ 1800 15 hours ground school ( instructor 's time ) : \ $ 600 Materials : \ $ 500 Headset : \ $ 500 Third-class medical : \ $ 150 Renter 's insurance : \ $ 700 ( per year ) Written test fee : \ $ 150 DPE test fee : \ $ 400 ( plus \ $ 120 rental for the aircraft ) Total : \ $ 10,520 You can play around with these numbers , there 's a lot of variation and research is obviously important . But the single largest cost will be the number of flying hours you need , so anything you can do to reduce that time is worthwhile and the simplest - but unfortunately not the easiest - way to do it is to fly as much as possible , i.e. several times a week . Given weather and other factors , you should probably even plan to fly more than you actually can on paper : a bunch of flights will certainly be cancelled . You can also train in the most ' minimal ' aircraft you can find : a two-seater aircraft without a glass panel could be \ $ 50/hr cheaper than a four-seater with a G1000 . Unless you have a very clear idea about what sort of flying you 'll do in the longer term there 's no point in paying for anything that is n't directly required for the private pilot 's test .
If you hold a Sport Pilot certificate and are looking to upgrade it to a Private Pilot certificate , your best bet is to use the requirements of <URL> . All of the flight time you logged earning a Sport Pilot certificate applies towards Private , but additional hours and types of flight time need to be logged . The requirements for each are paraphrased below . You 'd have to log the difference , which is a minimum of 20 hours , including another 5 hours of dual and 5 hours of solo . There 's a lot more to it than what I reference below , but this is the basics . How much of the training will have to be re-done ? This should vary wildly from pilot to pilot . You 'll need to redo training as required to meet standards . If you 're transitioning right away , theoretically none , but it 's likely that some retraining will be required . Does it depend on the type of your flight instructor 's certificate ? Yes . If the instructor has only a sport pilot instructor certificate , none of the dual instruction hours are able to be counted for the private pilot dual hours criteria . They are not an " authorized instructor " for private pilot privileges . If the CFI had a CFI-airplane certificate then those dual hours working towards the sport pilot certificate will count toward the dual hour requirements of the private pilot . See the <URL> Required for Sport ( <URL> ) Required for Private ( <URL> ) If you 've chosen a flight school that operates a Part 141 program , you get to do it all over . Hooray !
Depending on the airline , and the size of the aircraft , the Weight and Balance calculations for each flight are either done by the pilots , or by the Flight Operations , Load Department . If it is done by the pilots , they will receive the loading information which contains the weight and location of all passengers , cargo , and fuel . They then calculate manually , or by using software , the exact center of gravity . If done by the Load Department , the center of gravity information will be communicated by radio or ACARS datalink . It is not unusual to require a last minute seating or cargo change in order to ensure the aircraft is within the proper center of gravity limits for takeoff .
The easiest way to tell the direction of the wind when you 're near the water is to look for something on the shore that indicated wind direction ( beaches often have flags on them ) Barring that there are a bunch of other clues that should be familiar to any sailor ( or seaplane pilot ) which you can borrow : Boats lying at anchor weathervane and automatically point into the wind This is n't 100 % reliable : Some boats will set two anchors ( fore and stern ) and wo n't weathervane . Also when the tide is shifting boats will swing to align with the tide if it 's stronger than the wind . Boats lying at anchor sometimes have a flag on them Flags on a boat at anchor work the same way as flags on land - they 're excellent indicators of wind direction . On calm bodies of water the wind creates visible surface ripples The concave side of these ripples is the windward side . <URL> ( Visualize the water as being a large bowl of soup - now blow on the soup . The ripples will have the same shape . ) This same principle applies to larger waves as well ( other factors could cause the dominant breeze along a shoreline to not be quite perpendicular to the waves , but if your concern is ground reference maneuvers it 's " close enough " ) . " Wind Streaks " on the sea indicate wind direction <URL> are somewhat ambiguous in that they 're aligned with the wind , but do n't tell you which way it 's blowing : You have to figure that out for yourself ( for example by looking at the shape of the waves as described above ) . <URL> Surf spray gives wind speed and direction Waves breaking will produce spray that blows downwind - I could n't find a good illustration for this , but the finer spray tends to blow , while heavier drops just fall . The distance the spray blows gives an approximate indication of wind speed . It would take some pretty heavy seas to produce visible spray at altitude though , and you 're more likely to see foam and whitecaps in that case Foam or Whitecaps provide wind speed and direction Foam or whitecaps provide an indication of direction ( the foam appears to move upwind - into the wind ) and speed ( it generally takes winds of 10-15 knots or more to produce whitecaps and foam ) .
Inertial Navigation Systems , unlike other navigation systems , do not depend on external ( radio ) measurements . Instead an INS keeps track of its position by accurately measuring acceleration ( accelerometers ) and rotation ( gyroscopes ) . It therefore works in remote areas where there are no ground based navaids available . Initially , the INS gets its position from pilot input at the gate , or in more recent systems from GPS , sometimes even during flight . By measuring all the accelerations and rotations and integrating them into speed and direction the position is tracked . In doing this , the INS has to correct for the rotation of the earth and the related Coriolis force . Due to small inaccuracies in the measurements the velocity error and , with that , the position errors grow over time . <URL> has quite a detailed article about the history and working of the INS . While raw INS position has mainly been replaced by GPS measurements on oceanic flights , the system is not being phased out . GPS is a sensitive systems and by crosschecking it with INS , errors can be detected in both systems . It is often used as a backup to GPS . Integrated GPS / INS systems provide better systems integrity and allow the navigation system to coast through short GPS outages with high accuracies . In addition to that , the ( laser ) gyroscopes of the INS are often used to provide data to the digital artificial horizon displays in the cockpit and to the auto flight systems . In this case the term Inertial Reference Unit ( IRU ) is used , which acts as a basis for the INS .
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
In the U.S. , the phrase " Descend via the ( arrival ) " means that you are cleared to the altitudes as published . Without that phrase , simply cleared for the ___ arrival , then your clearance is the fixes , but ATC will assign your altitude explicitly . In this case , the published altitudes may later be assigned , so descent planning should still be based on making the next fix at its altitude . You just do n't go below your assigned altitude until cleared lower . FAA Explanations : Starting on page 8 for " descend via " clearances : <URL> More succinctly : <URL>
end question
start question
What trade-offs does an airline make when selecting an engine type for their aircraft ?
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
Several things come to mind , but they will all reduce efficiency and/or cost money , so they will not be popular with engine users : For turbofans : Reduce the <URL> of the spinning parts by reducing the bypass ratio . Inertia is mass times distance , so making the engine diameter smaller should have the biggest effect . Increase temperature margins for the turbine . Today , the electronic control ( called <URL> for Full Authority Digital Engine Control ) will limit the amount of fuel that can be injected into the combustion chamber to limit the temperature in the turbine . By running the turbine hotter for a few seconds the turbine torque can be increased , at the cost of a reduction in the lifetime of the turbine . For turboprops : Reduce blade pitch momentarily to unload the propeller , so more torque is available for spooling up the engine core . This , however , reduces thrust when it is needed most . Reduce secondary loads by disconnecting generators and closing bleed valves . This is already done by todays engine control , however . The best way of dealing with the slow engine response is operational : Avoid situations where the need for a rapid spool-up might arise or enter those situations not with engines set to idle , but to some medium power setting . Carrier pilots do this routinely by spooling up the engine shortly before touchdown , so they will have the required thrust at their disposal if the tail hook fails to catch any of the <URL> . Thanks to RalphJ for pointing out that turboprops use the same tactic . Helicopters never let the engine run in idle while in flight . If less thrust ( turboprops ) rsp . lift ( helicopters ) is needed , both adjust pitch to set the desired thrust/lift and keep engine RPM up . Now the mass flow through the engine core is the same as at full thrust , only the amount of heating in the combustion chamber is reduced to adjust the power output of the engine . When more thrust/lift is needed , the pilot adjusts pitch and fuel flow to set the desired thrust/lift level . Since the engine is already running at top speed , the change is not delayed by inertial effects .
There are potentially two answers to this question If you are asking about <URL> when the aircraft is parked like these <URL> ( <URL> ) They are made out of any manner of fabric , nylon , canvas and often foam filled if they are inserted somewhere . If you are asking about the exterior housing around an engine its generally aluminum like the rest of the aircraft . Much like the open panels that can be seen here . <URL> ( <URL> )
Every time an engine is shut down in flight , it is tracked . Engine reliability does affect ETOPS certification . In addition to the aircraft being certified , each airline is also ETOPS certified . An aircraft or an airline with a poor record could have its ETOPS certification downgraded , or even potentially revoked . <URL> ETOPS approval is a two-step process . First , the airframe and engine combination must satisfy the basic ETOPS requirements during its type certification . This is called " ETOPS type approval " . Such tests may include shutting down an engine and flying the remaining engine during the complete diversion time . Often such tests are performed in the middle of the ocean . It must be demonstrated that , during the diversion flight , the flight crew is not unduly burdened by extra workload due to the lost engine and that the probability of the remaining engine failing is extremely remote . For example , if an aircraft is rated for ETOPS-180 , it means that it should be able to fly with full load and just one engine for 3 hours . Second , an operator who conducts ETOPS flights must satisfy their own country 's aviation regulators about their ability to conduct ETOPS flights . This is called " ETOPS operational certification " and involves compliance with additional special engineering and flight crew procedures in addition to the normal engineering and flight procedures . Pilots and engineering staff must be qualified and trained for ETOPS . An airline with extensive experience operating long distance flights may be awarded ETOPS operational approval immediately , others may need to demonstrate ability through a series of ETOPS proving flights . Regulators closely watch the ETOPS performance of both type certificate holders and their affiliated airlines . Any technical incidents during an ETOPS flight must be recorded . From the data collected , the reliability of the particular airframe-engine combination is measured and statistics published . The figures must be within limits of type certifications . Of course , the figures required for ETOPS-180 will always be more stringent than ETOPS-120 . Unsatisfactory figures would lead to a downgrade , or worse , suspension of ETOPS capabilities either for the type certificate holder or the airline .
Aside from the obligatory <URL> answer , there are some components on an aircraft that will certainly fail at a higher rate than other components . From the Piston GA side of the equation I can name a few ( some of which are also applicable to turbine aircraft ) . Incandescent Light Bulbs A lightbulb is a supremely unreliable device : A delicate bit of wire is suspended in a thin glass envelope and heated until it glows - then subjected to vibration ( from the engines , turbulence , etc. ) in flight . We use them all over the airplane -- Position lights , landing lights , cockpit instrument lighting , etc. . If you think about how often incandescent light bulbs burn out in your house it 's probably not surprising that they fail quite often on aircraft . <URL> . We still use incandescent lightbulbs because they 're cheap : A $ 0.25 light bulb can be replaced multiple times before its cost even approaches the capital investment in a better solution . Modern aircraft are incorporating an increasing number of LEDs to replace incandescent lightbulbs - these solid-state devices have a lower failure rate ( and other benefits ) . Batteries Much like your car aircraft rely on batteries for some functions ( like starting the engines or the APU ) . Batteries have a finite service life and will eventually fail to hold a charge and need to be replaced . Sometimes <URL> . We still use batteries because hand-propping aircraft can be dangerous , and getting the APU turbine up to speed without a battery would be nearly impossible . Also if the engine-driven generators fail the battery is a useful source of electricity to help you get to a safe landing site . Spark Plugs Piston engines are spark-ignition , and spark plugs have a variety of failure modes ( they can become fouled with lead or carbon deposits , the internal resistor can fail , or the electrodes can simply wear out ) . These failures are not uncommon : Statistically if you fly piston aircraft long enough you 'll probably encounter at least one of them . We use spark plugs for obvious reasons : Unless the fuel is ignited it does n't generate any power . Without power the propeller does n't turn ( at least not very fast ) , so there 's no thrust . No thrust means no flying . Tires Tires are another aircraft component with multiple failure modes . Interesting ones include leaks ( air leaving the tire at a rate fast enough to be a problem ) , " catastrophic " failures where the tire explodes or disintegrates while rolling , and " self-protective " failures ( where the tire reaches a temperature that melts the fusible plug and causes it to deflate to prevent it from exploding ) . Tires are also used for an obvious reason : Aircraft that constantly belly-land require expensive maintenance ( to say nothing of the damage they do to the airport ) , and the alternatives - skis , pontoons , or flying boats - are limited in the areas from which they can operate . Air Filters On piston engines there is normally an intake air filter which is designed to keep dust and grit out of the engine . These filters can fail by becoming clogged ( which I suppose is n't really a failure : The filter is doing its job ) , and certain paper filters can fail by disintegrating and being ingested into the engine ( the FAA has issued <URL> on this subject ) . We still use air filters - even the paper kinds that can disintegrate - because ingesting dirt into a piston engine greatly accelerates wear . The required maintenance on the air filter costs less than increased overhaul frequency .
<URL> ( <URL> ) That was the case on <URL> ( but not quite ) . It was luck the manual gravity-extension did n't lock the nose gear in position . That has been attributed to the shortening of the landing roll/slide . Two factors helped avert a potential disaster : the failure of the front landing gear to lock into position during the gravity drop , and the presence of a guardrail that had been installed along the centre of the decommissioned runway to facilitate its use as a racetrack . However , no commercial aircraft is certified for it , because it can do more harm than good . And depending on the aircraft type , separate controls for each landing gear in manual-extension mode may not exist . A hard landing without the nose-landing gear may rupture the fuselage , center fuel tank , or hydraulic lines . And with the added sparks from the sliding , that 's a recipe for disaster . Instead , a system such as the <URL> ( EMAS ) may help : <URL> ( <URL> ) EMAS .
They are basically window-shaped screens , displaying a feed from a camera so the middle aisle suits ( where the alternative is a wall ) passengers can enjoy the " view " . The most interesting thing to me are the virtual windows . First Class passengers in the middle suite will have a set of " windows " like everyone else , only theirs will show images from an outside camera . <URL>
I think it 's because the last 747-400 was built in 2009 . <URL> Except for a passenger-carrying airplane with more than two engines manufactured prior to February 17 , 2015 and except for a two-engine airplane that , when used in ETOPS , is only used for ETOPS of 75 minutes or less , no certificate holder may conduct ETOPS unless the airplane has been type design approved for ETOPS and each airplane used in ETOPS complies with its CMP document as follows : ( a ) For a two-engine airplane , that is of the same model airplane-engine combination that received FAA approval for ETOPS up to 180 minutes prior to February 15 , 2007 , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination in effect on February 14 , 2007 . ( b ) For a two-engine airplane , that is not of the same model airplane-engine combination that received FAA approval for ETOPS up to 180 minutes before February 15 , 2007 , the CMP document for that new model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( b ) ( 1 ) of this chapter . ( c ) For a two-engine airplane approved for ETOPS beyond 180 minutes , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( b ) ( 2 ) of this chapter . ( d ) For an airplane with more than 2 engines manufactured on or after February 17 , 2015 , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( c ) of this chapter . § 25.3 Special provisions for ETOPS type design approvals . ( a ) Applicability . This section applies to an applicant for ETOPS type design approval of an airplane : ( 1 ) That has an existing type certificate on February 15 , 2007 ; or ( 2 ) For which an application for an original type certificate was submitted before February 15 , 2007 . ( b ) Airplanes with two engines . ( 1 ) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane up to and including 180 minutes , an applicant must comply with § 25.1535 , except that it need not comply with the following provisions of Appendix K , K25 .1.4 , of this part : ( i ) K25 .1.4 ( a ) , fuel system pressure and flow requirements ; ( ii ) K25 .1.4 ( a ) ( 3 ) , low fuel alerting ; and ( iii ) K25 .1.4 ( c ) , engine oil tank design . ( 2 ) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane beyond 180 minutes an applicant must comply with § 25.1535 . ( c ) Airplanes with more than two engines . An applicant for ETOPS type design approval must comply with § 25.1535 for an airplane manufactured on or after February 17 , 2015 , except that , for an airplane configured for a three person flight crew , the applicant need not comply with Appendix K , K25 .1.4 ( a ) ( 3 ) , of this part , low fuel alerting .
This question is difficult to answer comprehensively as the continuing education requirements are complex and varied . The complexity is because the continuing education requirements are mandated by multiple parties ( the FAA , insurance companies , clients , and employers ) and depend on the regulations the flight is conducted under ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) , the type of aircraft operated ( single engine , multi-engine , turboprop , jet ) , and the pilot 's role in the operation ( PIC , SIC ) . Note that both the Commercial and Airline Transport Pilot ( ATP ) license are good for life , unless revoked or surrendered . Any continuing education requirements are to retain the employment or the privileges of exercising the license , unlike CE requirements for licenses in some industries . In very broad brush strokes , most professional pilots will be required to complete a flight proficiency check , either in an actual aircraft , or in a simulator , every 6 to 12 months . The amount of time will vary for such checks , but 3 hours might be typical . This proficiency check will be accompanied , in some cases , with a written or oral examination . In addition to this , insurance may require an aircraft systems class and simulator brush up session every 12-24 months . Such training is usually accomplished in 3-6 days , including roughly 12-24 hours of lecture/bookwork , and 6-10 hours of simulator time . In addition to the flight and systems training , pilots employed by air carriers will generally be required to receive instruction on operational aspects of their operation , including such topics as <URL> , hazardous materials , weather , physiology , as well as many others . Such training is often self-paced , computer based training ( CBT ) . I would estimate the time commitment for this training to be 20-40 hours annually . In addition to the required training and testing , many pilots choose to spend additional time studying aviation related topics . Such topics may include all those alluded to above , as well as other topics . Examples of such study would be changes to company operational procedures , brushing up on checklist memorization , FAA advisory publications , and areas of interest outside of normal operations , such as international operations . Speaking personally , I probably spend roughly 10 hours a week in what could be considered aviation related study or learning . I also often see other pilots at my company studying various aircraft or operational manuals , and our company keeps a collection of articles , FAA advisories , and other publications related to our operation with the intent that pilots voluntarily study these materials as they have time . Bear in mind that a pilot 's life often involves a great deal of waiting , a task which often lends itself to reading and study .
Engines must be at idle thrust to enter reverse thrust . This may not be 100 % true of the physical action of engine entering reverse thrust ( opening the buckets or translating the cowling ) , but it is required by the thrust levers . In all airplanes I 'm familiar with the thrust levers must be at idle to enter the reverse regime , In the EMB-145 the reversage was below idle ( i.e. you keep moving the levers aft ) through a gate . Even if the engine is capable of entering reverse thrust not at idle , there is no way to command it without first being at idle .
Planes as early as the <URL> had a rudder , it appears from pictures that the 1900 and 1901 variants did not have rudders but its hard to tell from the photos . <URL> Depending on your definition if you are talking about powered flight the <URL> had 2 rudders much like its earlier glider predecessor . <URL> In the lighter than air category , the <URL> had a sail like rudder in the aft of the ship . So that may take the cake if you have consider it a true rudder . <URL> Side Note : Patented in <URL> could be argued as the first design that did not ( as far as I know ) employ a rudder . The earlier <URL> are the most common plane of that design in commercial production . There is quite a bit of <URL> as to the safety of ruddervators and the general theme seems to be that they are not perfect and do require some care to fly properly .
There are two aspects here , one what is required legally and then what may be required locally . From a legal standpoint ( in your case ) the basic PPL will allow you to fly single engine , fixed pitch prop , under 200HP , fixed gear aircraft . If you want to go over 200 HP you will need a High Performance check out and log book endorsement . For a constant speed prop/folding gear/movable flap ( all 3 are required to require this endorsement ) plane you will need a complex endorsement in your log book . You may want to fly something like a Piper Cub which will require a tail wheel endorsement . If you are lucky enough ( and have the funding to do so ) you may find your self in a small pressurized single ( or twin ) like the <URL> or <URL> these planes will require a high altitude checkout as well . <URL> . If you want the full <URL> . Now as for a club or school that depends on a variety of factors including their insurance and their personal limits . I 'll offer some personal experience which seems to be pretty par for the course . The flight school I fly from requires a checkout in type from every new renter before you can fly it even if you have a PPL and the proper endorsements . They do n't have an official amount of time but it usually takes about an hour with an instructor . The former flight school I was at had the same deal with the exception of their Saratoga which they also required an instrument rating ( along with their checkout ) . My buddy 's flight club is somewhat similar . They require a check out in their Archer and Dakota to fly solo . They also have a <URL> . As for your log book you should be logging the full type of aircraft for every flight . For example when I fly the Warrior I make sure to note PA-28-161 and the Archer I fly is noted as PA-28-181 when I record hours this way I can note time in type at a detailed level . For what its worth with the PA-28 airframe it seems that some places to allow you to fly the lower rated planes if you are checked out in the higher power ones . The same basic frame was built in a 140 , 160 , 180 and 235HP variant over the years and has little differences aside from useful load and V speeds . For example at the place I go if you are checked out in the Archer first you are allowed to fly the Warrior with out a checkout . This will also extend to ownership should that be the path you go down . In that case you insurance company may require a certain amount of hours of time in type before you are allowed to solo your plane . Keeping that in mind you are not actually prevented from buying the plane and will be insured under the stipulation that the first hours in the plane are with an instructor . When a buddy of mine ( instrument rated and close to 600 hours at the time ) upgraded from his 72 Archer to a 95 Saratoga HP his insurance company mandated he do 25 hours in type with an instructor before taking the plane solo . The first 25 hours he flew his plane were with an instructor ( this included transporting the plane from the factory in Vero Beach to his home field ) . You can legally fly both planes once you have your PPL . What someone will let you fly should be pretty well addressed above . Neither the 172 or 152 requires a specific type rating like larger planes do .
First , a word of caution - Do n't attempt your own oil changes on an aircraft unless you 're familiar with the process , and have both the tools and skills you 'll need to get it done right . It 's probably a good idea to have your mechanic supervise you on your first oil change , and check your work on the next few until you 're sure you 've got the hang of it . This is n't an oil-change how-to - just a list of stuff to look at to judge the general health of an engine . Disclaimers and warnings out of the way , here 's what I look for ( or ask the shop to check ) during an oil change : Draining that dirty old oil First , do n't forget to grab a sample for oil analysis while you 're draining ( I 'll talk about that a little later ! ) . Now , while the oil is running out of the drain you 're really looking for big chunks of metal coming out with it ( or heaven forbid blocking the drain hole ) You also want to make sure there is no nasty <URL> coming out ( that 's a car in the video , but the principle is the much same ) . Basically what 's coming out of the drain should look like oil . It 'll be dirty ( dark to black , rather than the pretty clear-ish liquid you poured into the engine all those hours ago ) , but it should still be flowing nicely . Obviously chunks of metal here would be bad . If you 're noticing them in the drained oil you 've got some serious mechanical damage in your engine and you need a mechanic to check it out . Sludge generally means you need to talk to your mechanic too - often it means a bunch of low-time oil changes to clean out the gunk from the engine , but if it 's severe it could indicate other engine problems that need attention Checking the Oil Screen If your engine has an oil suction screen that can be removed and cleaned ( as on most Lycoming engines ) , remove it and inspect it for any pieces of metal , then clean it and reinstall it . As with chunks in the drained oil , bits of metal in the screen are often a sign of a serious mechanical problem - if you find any you 're going to want to talk to your mechanic . Inspecting the Oil Filter As part of every oil change the filter should be cut open and inspected for fine metallic particles in the pleats . There are a few of ways to do this ( one is to simply stretch the pleats out under a bright light and look at them , another is to wash the filter in a solvent and strain the used solvent through a coffee filter to see if any particles are left behind ) . <URL> If you find any bits of metal in the filter you already know what I 'm going to say -- you 're going to want a mechanic to check things out . A very small amount of metal may not be a serious issue , or it might be the beginnings of an engine on a path to self-destruction . Run an oil analysis Some people do an oil analysis every oil change , some people do n't ever do one . Smarter people than me say it 's probably a good idea to do them , so I consider it to be cheap insurance and a good window into where those " bits of metal " I keep talking about above might eventually start coming from . There are plenty of companies that do aviation oil analysis and for an idea on what 's in the report <URL> . <URL> Note that a single oil analysis wo n't tell you much ( unless things are REALLY out of whack ) - it 's the long term stability or trends that matter here , so if you 're going to do an oil analysis be prepared to do them at every oil change from now on ... Do the things that are n't oil-related An oil change is a good opportunity to do some other regular maintenance - Since the cowling is off anyway why not clean/gap/rotate your spark plugs ( which is another mind-numbing task the FARs allow owners with a private pilot certificate to do ) ? In fact since the cowling is apart and your engine is naked now 's the time to give it a good once over for any loose parts , chafing wires , etc. that might have come up since the last oil change or service that had someone under the cowling . It 's probably also a good opportunity to check all your lights ( interior and exterior ) , and break out the manufacturer 's lubrication chart to see if there are any other things that need to be oiled , greased , cleaned , or sprayed . So what 's all this fuss about metal ? You 've probably noticed above that I 'm really harping on all the ways you can find metal in your oil in this answer . The simple fact is that all engines wear , and eventually they wear out . That wear shows up as microscopic bits of metal relatively harmlessly suspended in the oil ( what the oil analysis picks up ) , but if that wear suddenly accelerates bigger pieces of metal start getting torn off of the moving parts in your engine , and showing up in other places like the oil filter and screen , letting you know something is wrong with your engine , and hopefully letting you know on the ground rather than in the air . I do n't want to give the wrong impression here though : Not every bit of metal that turns up in an oil filter will be a death sentence for the
Origin of the vortices Wake turbulence is easy to understand once you know how a wing creates lift : By deflecting the air flowing across it downwards . In <URL> , I had used the simplification of just accelerating downwards all the air flowing through a circle with a diameter equal to the wingspan , and leaving all other air unaffected . This helps to understand the principle of lift creation , but is too simple , of course , because the downward movement of air will create a void above it , and the air below has to make place for that downward moving streamtube . Also , the pressure field around the wing will affect the air in the vicinity of the streamtube as well , and in consequence air from below will be pushed sideways already by the wing , and the air above will start to flow towards the low pressure area over the wing . This sideways movement will become more pronounced aft of the wing , such that air will continuously be pressed outwards below the wing 's wake , move up left and right of it and inwards above the wake . The inertia of the downwash keeps it moving downwards for several minutes , continuously displacing the air below it and sucking more air into the space above , and that will result in two vortices swirling behind the wing . This is the rolling up of the wake ( see the sketch below , taken from <URL> ) . The vortices are just a consequence of the downward movement of the wake , and this in turn is a consequence of lift creation . Please note that the cores of the vortices are closer together than the wingspan ! This by itself should make clear that they are not caused by air flowing around wingtips , a hard to extinguish misconception . The table below gives calculations of this vortex spacing . The table is also from the <URL> ; note the inclusion of Boeing 's 2707 project ! Strength of the vortices If we again come back to the simplified streamtube approximation , lift is proportional to the mass of air flowing through it per unit of time times the deflection angle . If lift is equal to the aircraft 's mass ( as it should be ) , heavy aircraft need to either accelerate more air ( wider span ) or accelerate air more ( higher deflection angle ) than light aircraft at the same speed . A higher deflection angle will produce more powerful vortices . For that reason , a heavy aircraft at low speed and with a small wingspan will produce the strongest vortices . Since more air flows through the streamtube at higher flight speed , flying faster will require less deflection , making the wake vortices weaker . If the aircraft climbs , air becomes less dense with altitude , and less mass flow over the wing is available , so the vortices grow stronger if the flight speed does not change . Normally , aircraft accelerate when climbing , and the vortex strength will stay the same if the aircraft flies at constant dynamic pressure . Vortices can be avoided in three ways : Infinite wing span ( meaning infinite mass flow , so no deflection is necessary for any lift ) Infinite speed ( again , gives infinite mass flow ) No weight of the aircraft . Flying a zero-g parabola does indeed produce almost no wake turbulence . End of the vortices Inertia will keep the wake moving downwards and the vortices spinning , but friction will let those air movements die down within a few minutes . If the aircraft flies high , the wake is dissipated long before it hits the ground . The wake of low flying aircraft , however , does hit the ground and is deflected . The vortex tube now acts like a wheel and starts moving outward , and if there is a sufficient crosswind , the windward vortex can be arrested as in the right sketch below ( also from the Carten report ) . Photographic evidence There are far too <URL> to not include some , so I will add a few here : You can see that the outer contrails of this Boeing 747 's engines wrap around the contrails of the inner engines . This shows how the air is pushed down in the wake of the wing and that the centers of the vortices are slightly inboard of the outer engines . The condensation traces originating at the winglet tips of this A340 move in - and upward , again showing that the vortex does not originate from the tips but forms behind the wing and with a distance between the two vortex cores of substantially less than the wingspan . These two pictures show how the downwash of the wake is cutting a furrow in the clouds . <URL> MD-11 on a moist day , flaps set for landing . One , it shows how insignificant the tip vortex is compared to vorticity shed at the flap tips , and Two it shows how the tip vortex moves inward and starts to be sucked into the wake vortex . Note also the tip vortices from the tail !
The answer to your question strongly depends on what kind of airplane you 're talking about ( in particular , what set of rules it was certificated under ) , as well as the phase of flight you are in ( takeoff vs. cruise vs. approach/landing ) and whether you are in a jet or a ( turbine or piston ) propeller aircraft . ( I 'm going to exclude single-engine airplanes from this discussion , as well . ) Cruise Flight In general , an engine failure in cruise flight is a manageable emergency unless you are in extremely high terrain in a light twin or some other corner case . The general procedure is to " drift down " in a slow-ish descent to your single-engine cruise altitude -- if you do n't already have a driftdown airspeed worked out , you can use Vyse as a substitute to get a slow driftdown -- and then divert to a nearby suitable airport to get the busted engine looked at , as you 'll be flying lower and less fuel-efficiently as a result . Takeoff Takeoff is the most troublesome time for an engine failure to happen , bar none : you are at high gross weight and do n't have altitude under you to turn into airspeed and landing options . What you want to do is get to the pattern altitude , fly a pattern , and land in a reasonably quick , but orderly fashion -- you do n't need to ultra-hurry things even if you have an engine on fire , but you do want to get back on the ground in a reasonable timeframe to get things looked at . Light Twins ( cabin class , commuter , pre-FAR 25 airliners ) These aircraft , unfortunately , struggle in single-engine situations on the best of days , as the certification requirements for single-engine performance in FAR 23 are minimal at best . The common adage you will hear about light twins , even , is " the second engine will carry you to the scene of the crash " -- it is possible for a light twin to be type certificated with nil or negative worst case single-engine climb performance in the case of an engine failure at or shortly after takeoff . Business Jets ( certificated under FAR 23 ) Corporate or business-type light jet aircraft ( Citations , Gulfstreams , LearJets , Beechjets , etal ) and their turboprop counterparts ( such as KingAirs ) , while often certificated under Part 23 , will generally have superior single-engine performance to light twins , although this is by no means guaranteed . You 'll likely get up into the pattern and be able to make a reasonably normal single-engine landing , barring any aggravating factors at least ; this is because even the smallest turbine engines are large enough that the aircraft will have some degree of excess thrust as a twin , leaving it with a thrust reserve in a single engine situation . These aircraft are also flown by pilots with type ratings and a CPL or ATPL , which means they will be more familiar with the performance of that specific aircraft and any aircraft-specific engine-out procedures needed to eke out maximum single-engine climb rates . Twin-Engine Airliners ( transport class twin turboprops and twin jets certified under FAR 25 ) The FAR 25 requirements for engine-out takeoff performance are much more stringent than FAR 23 , and practically guarantee that the aircraft is capable of positive climb in a V1 cut ( engine failure right after decision speed ) at maximum takeoff weight . In addition , V1 cuts are a classic airline training scenario that every airline flight crew on the planet runs in the sim on a regular basis ( I would n't be surprised if a V1 cut came up every few sim sessions or so , if not every sim session ) . In a practical sense , this means that unless the aircraft is overloaded or is suffering from something beyond a simple engine failure ( I 'll talk about that later ) , an airline flight crew will handle engine failure on takeoff in an airliner as a routine event . 3 and 4 engine airliners A single engine failure on a three or four engine aircraft is by no means critical , especially on three - and four-engined jet transports . This does n't mean that 747 crews do n't practice V1 cuts any longer , though ! Props vs Jets Engine failure in a jet , whether it be a T-37 or an A380 , is simple : you put appropriate rudder in , ID which engine died ( between your instruments and " dead foot , dead engine " , you should have enough data to go on ) , add power as needed on the working engine ( say , if you are doing an assumed/FLEX temp takeoff ) , and kill the dead engine , then run the rest of the checklist at a leisurely pace now that safe flight is more-or-less assured . Propeller aircraft are a bit more complicated though in that you need to <URL> the dead engine 's propeller to keep it from dragging the airplane down -- older constant-speed prop designs such as those on warbirds and piston-engine airliners had FEATHER buttons for this job , one per engine ; newer aircraft with constant-speed props have a gate on either the power or the condition levers that serves in place of the feathering button . You also have more levers to manipulate when adding power to the working engine ( s ) and kill
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
According to ICAO Annex II ( Rules of the air ) 3.6.2.2 ( b ) : Variation in true airspeed : if the average true airspeed at cruising level between reporting points varies or is expected to vary by plus or minus 5 per cent of the true airspeed , from that given in the flight plan , the appropriate air traffic services unit shall be so informed . So the pilot in command has the right to increase speed , just as well as the air traffic controller has the right to limit it . However , as airliners normally cruise fairly close to their maximum speeds , this is n't very effective . Recovering lost time by increasing speed is at best 1 to 3 minutes per hour . Better ways are to request possible shortcuts from ATC and change altitude for better wind and temperature .
Many ( especially larger ) airlines have a history and infrastructure for engines from a specific manufacturer and are unlikely to change that , the cost would extend far beyond just the cost of changing the contract . E.g. KLM has a massive investment in maintenance facilities for GE engines , workshops , spare parts warehouses , highly trained specialised technicians . Retooling to RR would be prohibitive for them . Of course a smaller operation without maintenance facilities of their own might be more flexible in that and just buy whatever is cheapest at the time , contracting out maintenance to various companies as needed . But even then , it 's often more economical to have a single maintenance provider doing all your work for you , which might well mean a provider who 's specialised in a single series of engines , for example if you 're based at Schiphol there 's a good chance you 'll be contracting out your maintenance to KLM and their GE specialised shops . So there are many good reasons for airlines to stick with a single engine supplier ( and to a degree with a single aircraft manufacturer ) , even if the cost of buying those engines is higher than selecting competing engines from another manufacturer . Say you 're going to save 0.1 % in your fuel bills for the 2 new aircraft you 're buying to increase the fleet of 20 with other engines you have already ( and that 's a big if , those engines are pretty close between manufacturers for a specific aircraft ) . You 'd need to fly a LOT for it to be worth building an entire duplicate maintenance network just for those few new aircraft . Of course if it 's part of a long term plan to replace the entire fleet with aircraft using that other manufacturer 's engines , that 's a different story . But mixed engine fleets tend not to be the most economical way to go , even if on one type manufacturer A is marginally more fuel efficient and on type B manufacturer B is marginally more fuel efficient ( and that 's what you 're going to see , marginal differences only ) . If you 're talking an operation like Delta or United , with hundreds of aircraft of each type , it might be a different story . But then too you 're talking about more aircraft with each manufacturer 's engines than most other airlines have in total , and they 'll have multiple maintenance shops themselves , making it easier to have a facility for each manufacturer ( and of course in case of the big US airlines , they tend to have ended up with that in the course of gobbling up other airlines anyway ) .
Drag ( and lift ) increases with density . Density decreased and so did drag . So at the same power , you can fly faster . Now I do n't know whether reduction of power of a normally aspirated spark-ignition reciprocating engine at constant throttle setting would be higher or lower than the reduction of drag . But the question says power setting .
Simple Answer : Running the engine lean or rich at different altitudes . Longer Answer : There are a couple of reasons you want to adjust the mixture of a aircraft engine . Since air density changes with altitude , it 's a good idea to be able to change the fuel/air mixture at different altitudes . If you did not adjust the mixture at high altitudes you may not get full power because the air is thinner and now there is same amount of fuel being mixed with less air . All the unburnt fuel can cause issues like loss of power and/or fouling of plugs . Being able to lean the mixture at higher altitude lets you save fuel , so you can go further on a full tank . ( hence saving money ) Running a engine rich can help cool engine . Fuel acts like a coolant in this manner . Typically on climbing you want to run the engine a bit rich because your going slower and less air is able to help cool the engine . Traditional piston powered aircraft engines are shut off by pulling the mixture to the off position . This starves the engine and burns off remaining fuel in the cylinders . This topic can also bring up other discussions . Like EGT , CHT , running an engine rich of peak or lean of peak , monitoring fuel flow rate with a flow meter , and fuel injectors on fuel injected systems . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
How does ATC maintain separation between aircraft flying at different speeds ?
FL250 for a Boeing 737 in cruise at 850 kph/460 knots GS is an unlikely value . Aircraft in the same category of speed , such as the Boeing 737/747/767 / 777 usually fly at higher altitudes , e.g. FL300-FL400 . Slower turboprop aircraft such as the ATR72 usually fly in the ranges of FL200-FL250 . During cruise , airspeed will be matched by ATC for all aircraft where the trailing aircraft might catch up to the preceding aircraft . ATC sees the ground speed on their radar screens and can thus compare and evaluate if they need to assign speeds to maintain separation . <URL> ( Image Source : <URL> - Speed : 395 knots GS ) The same principle applies to aircraft in the terminal area , the lower you get , the more will aircraft have the same groundspeed when assigning the same indicated airspeed , as air density and wind approach the same values . ATC will sometimes assign a slower speed to trailing aircraft if they need to achieve the same groundspeed at different altitudes . For aircraft that still have significantly different groundspeeds on the same airway , ATC can also vector aircraft around the preceding aircraft and put it back in front or they can issue a direct that will achieve the same effect , changing the sequence of the aircraft . A climb or descend can be coordinated with the pilots , e.g. the trailing aircraft can be asked if they are able to accept a climb to another flight level , maybe even temporarily .
Only in aerobatic aircraft is the inverted stall speed identical to the upright stall speed in level flight . Airplanes registered in the Normal and Utility classes have cambered airfoils which have a higher positive maximum lift coefficient . In inverted flight , their stall speed is higher than their upright stall speed . The same goes for gliders and airliners . When I had my last aborted winch launch in a ASK-13 , I involuntarily checked how well the cockpit had been cleaned last time . I had to briefly close my eyes to avoid getting sand and dust into them . I can confirm that it is fully possible to fly a negative maneuver in upright position , albeit only briefly . However , the negative acceleration had as much to do with the rate of rotation and my position ahead of the cg as with negative lift . If I had pushed a lot more , I could had stalled the wing by undershooting the negative lift minimum . But this would had just limited the downward acceleration , and the negative lift would not had been sufficient for inverted flight , because the inverted stall speed in level inverted flight was most likely higher than the speed at the time of the tow line rupture . The negative stall speed is just your flight speed , and the possible negative gs grow with the square of speed . Stall is a matter of angle of attack , not of speed . A negative stall in upright attitude is rather uneventful - the aircraft will be at a high rate of rotation and will just hit the limit of downward acceleration .
The STCA ( Short Term Conflict Alert ) or pre-alert settings depend on the radar client in use and the ACC 's or ARTCC 's own standard operation procedures . Some ATC systems give a warning before a loss of separation can occur if criteria are met , informing the controller of a possible conflict . Factors can be clearing aircraft on the same altitude / flight level , aircraft on converging flight profiles , lateral or vertical separation reducing below threshold values , e.g. where 5nm lateral separation is required , a STCA could be set to occur at 7nm lateral separation . The minimum radar separation between aircraft depends on airspace ( <URL> ) , aircraft equipment and airspace separation requirements ( <URL> ) , flight rules ( e.g. IFR to VFR is not separated outside class C airspace in Germany ) or local rules imposed by the Civil Aviation Authority . The general rule of thumb for IFR separation in most countries ( as most countries follow RVSM rules ) : 5nm lateral separation enroute ( upper airspace ) 3nm lateral separation in TMA area ( lower airspace ) 1.000 ft vertical separation in lower and upper airspace where RVSM is observed and aircraft equipped 2.000 ft vertical separation in non-RVSM airspace or between aircraft not equipped for RVSM Oceanic separation is achieved differently , as non-radar procedures are in place . The separation in non-radar environments is achieved procedurally and through position reports and timing .
From a legal standpoint English is not only the official language of aviation but you must be " <URL> " to legally fly at least here in the US . This is both an <URL> requirement these days . Although what happens when a repeat is needed has been covered in other answers it should be noted that accents should not stand in the way of communications and you may , depending on your case be required to have an " English Proficient " endorsement on your license . In reality there should never be a pronunciation issue ( but we live in a far from perfect world ) Here is the full ICAO chart of grading , <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> on the dangers of language differences in aviation accidents . As for the fact that some aircraft radios garble signals and do n't help in transmitting marginally acceptable audio all while in a plane with near defining engine noise ; that is a whole separate question ...
I suppose it depends on what you mean by " land " -- For our purposes I 'll define landing as putting the aircraft on the ground and decelerating to taxi speed , while meeting the other requirements of a " good landing " ( shiny side up ; rubber side down ; aircraft , pilot , and passengers in reusable condition ) . How fast can I go ? Generally you want to put the wheels on the ground at ( or at least very close to ) the aircraft 's stall speed and then decelerate to a safe taxi speed . You can certainly force the wheels onto the ground at higher speeds , but you 're still an aerial vehicle at that point and you have to bleed off the excess speed to transition to a ground ( taxiing ) vehicle before you can leave the runway . As a general rule of thumb your final approach speed should be about 1.3 times stall speed for your selected landing configuration so you can get down to taxi speed reasonably quickly . Putting that into some kind of context , a normal approach speed ( with full flaps ) in the Piper Cherokee I fly is around ~ 65 knots . A no-flaps approach is ~ 75 knots . Looking a little deeper , you can fly the approach as fast as you want ( within reason ) as long as you 're comfortable doing that and confident in your ability to bleed off the extra speed with precision . At my home field I 've been chased down final by jets often enough that I know I can maintain 85 + knots until about a half-mile final , at which point I can reliably dump the extra speed , put the wheels down in the touchdown zone , and decelerate to taxi speed in time to make a " normal " turn-off . I also know that if it seems like I will need to carry more than about 85 knots by the half-mile point I 'm better off telling ATC I 'll go around and land after the faster traffic because I may not be able to safely decelerate and turn off the runway with enough room for the traffic behind me to land . Keeping your speed up is really only helpful if you do n't botch the landing . What 's the procedure for doing this ? The procedure is basically " Keep your speed up until short final " -- It 's something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily . If you elect to land without flaps the procedure is the same as the " no-flap landings " you should have done in training , and in most small aircraft that should be a non-event . Again , this is something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily , and it 's a technique you should be familiar with in case your flap controls ever fail . What are the consequences ? Well , the good part is you 'll be helping out ATC and the traffic behind you : if you can keep your speed up ATC will be better able to maintain separation between you and the faster aircraft behind you , instead of having to send them around or vector / re-sequence them for spacing . It 's also fun to do this kind of thing occasionally , and helps keep your skills sharp . The bad part is that any time you 're not flying a " normal " approach you 're accepting some additional level of risk . In this case you 're also touching down faster , which means more energy to dissipate ( hopefully through braking , but if something goes wrong you 'll be dissipating that energy through impact , and as dvnrrs pointed out the energy you need to get rid of is proportional to the square of your velocity so the number goes up fast ) . Remember that ultimately flying a fast final or touching down in an alternate ( faster ) configuration is a courtesy to ATC and the traffic you 're mixing with . If you 're comfortable doing it everyone will appreciate your help , but if you are n't comfortable with it just fly a normal approach and let ATC know you are <URL> to fly faster -- the worst thing ATC will do is ask you to go around and re-sequence you with more space next time .
For the general question , the answer will be " it depends on the aircraft . " Specifically for the 787 , though , the ' 7E7 ' program was officially announced on <URL> . The program was later renamed to 787 . It received its type certificate on <URL> and flew its first passenger revenue flight on <URL> . So , from the time the program began to the time of the first revenue flight was about 8 years and 9 months . Of course , this is not including the R&amp;D time invested on different projects whose R&amp;D ended up being used either partially or completely in the 787 design before the 787 program itself began . It should also be noted that not every airframe they start developing ever actually flies . Notably , Boeing worked on designs including <URL> and the <URL> ( which would have cruised at Mach 0.98 ) before beginning the 7E7 program . In addition to completely new airframes , aircraft manufacturers also commonly make derivative airframes based on existing product families . Current examples of derivatives in development include the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( " neo " stands for " new engine option . " ) However , development time on derivatives can vary widely depending on how much modification is being made to the existing airframes and the level of resources being devoted to the project ( which depends on market pressure . ) For a past example , the 2nd-generation Boeing 777 aircraft were announced on <URL> with the first aircraft , the 777-300ER , being certificated on <URL> , and first service entry on <URL> . This gives a time of about 4 years and 2 months from announcement to first service entry . This was likely slowed by the sharp downturn in aircraft orders following the 1999-2000 " . com bust " and , especially , the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Also important is the FAA rule for applying for a type certificate . This will apply for new programs like the 787 , but not for derivative programs like the 777X , which amend the original type certificate and do not need a new one . In <URL> : An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years ... So once Boeing applies for a new type certificate , they have 5 years to get the type cetificate approved , unless they convince the FAA upfront that more time is needed . If the time runs out they must reapply , and the new type certificate would require the aircraft to comply with all new regulations passed since their original application .
I suspect that you 're thinking of <URL> that took effect from June 30th , 2010 . Before the change , a taxi clearance could indeed allow you to cross multiple runways , but now you can only be cleared to cross one runway at a time : This change establishes the requirement that an explicit runway crossing clearance be issued for each runway ( active/inactive or closed ) crossing and requires an aircraft/vehicle to have crossed the previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . At airports where the taxi route between runway centerlines is less than 1,000 feet apart , multiple runway crossings may be issued after receiving approval by the Terminal Services Director of Operations . It was a big change at the time ( according to what I 've read ) and it was widely publicized by the FAA and other organizations . The relevant ATC instructions are in the <URL> 3-7-2 : Aircraft/vehicles must receive a clearance for each runway their route crosses . An aircraft/vehicle must have crossed a previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . The orders have several examples and the corresponding phraseology .
How are aircraft aligned with these bridges They are not ( but read on ) Aircraft are aligned to a point on the concrete , not to the jetbridge ( s ) . It is the jetbridge itself that carries out the final alignment to the aircraft door . Jetbridges are actually motor vehicles with wheels , tyres , motors and ( often ) steering . It just happens that their rear end is tethered and their bodies articulate and/or telescope to accomodate the motion at the " front " end . . You <URL> using a set of controls at the end furthest from the terminal building <URL> <URL> I believe some also have what is effectively variable height suspension like old Citroens ( except I imagine it is hydraulic or jack-screw ) . The aircraft is driven to the terminal so the nose wheel follows a guide line and stops at a marking appropriate for the aircraft type . Then the jet bridge is <URL> up to the aircraft door . As the aircraft is gradually burdened with self-loading freight and sinks on it 's suspension , the jetbridge metaphorically <URL> so that the SLF do n't trip up or fall into the aircraft . That is , the jetbridge maintains alignment , the aircraft is pretty passive in the job of alignment . I have to admit I did n't notice these jetbridge controls for many years as I was usually either busy rushing to my seat or busy rushing to the baggage reclaim . One time there was a delay at the aircraft door that was long enough for my bored gaze to alight on the controls and for the thought to briefly wander across my mind - " I wonder what would happen if I pressed that ... "
In Europe , airlines pay so-called route charges for flying through national airspaces . EUROCONTROL , the European aviation organisation , collects route charges from their Central Route Charges Office , CRCO , and then distributes the money to the member states , who in turn will distribute them to the national air navigation service providers ( ANSP 's ) - including private ones . The advantage of collecting route charges centrally , is that airlines only have to pay to a single organisation , in a single currency . The charge for individual flights is calculated based on distance flown and aircraft weight , which are multiplied by a unit rate . The unit rates are determined by the individual countries - they are not the same across all of Europe . Unit rates are based on the actual costs for providing air traffic services , such as ATC , communication facilities , navigation equipment , meteorological information , aeronautical information service and so on . Route charges do not apply to aircraft weighing less than 2 tonnes , state and government flights and search and rescue flights . Some states also exempt military flights , training flights , test flights , local flights , VFR flights , humanitarian flights , police flights etc. . You can read more about the CRCO <URL> , and about how route charges are determined <URL> . Regarding your second question , I fail to see why a private ANSP should be any less safe than a government one .
Short answer : The reason for <URL> ( skewed flight , as you call it ) during an approach in crosswind is to keep the wings level while maintaining sideslip-free flight . Flying wings are not fundamentally different , because they , too , have stability characteristics similar to those of conventional aircraft . Airplanes want to be flown without sideslip . <URL> ( where a component of the airspeed comes from one side ) incurs lots of complications : Some of the lift is also pointing sideways , so the airplane drifts sideways . Weathervane stability will make the aircraft yaw into the wind . This comes mainly from the vertical tail , but is only one of many components to make the aircraft controllable . The dihedral effect will cause a rolling moment , lifting the windward wing . Wing sweep will increase this rolling moment and add more yawing moment . Since the vertical tail sits upward of the line of symmetry in most airplanes , this also adds to the rolling moment . Most of these effects are desired , because they make the aircraft easier to fly , but during approach they make it harder to line it up with the runway . If the fuselage is held parallel to the runway , the windward wing needs to be lowered , so some of the lift points sideways into the wind , compensating the side force caused by sideslipping . This is achieved by keeping the ailerons deflected to work against the aforementioned effects , and the rudder needs to keep the airplane from turning into the wind . This is no problem as long as the airplane is high enough . On touchdown , however , such an attitude can not be maintained , or the aircraft will hit the ground with a part of the wing or an engine nacelle first . Only by pointing the fuselage into the wind can the course of the airplane be aligned with the runway in a sideslip-free way . This is called crabbing , because when seen from the ground the aircraft 's speed has a lateral component , a little like a crab wich is also known for its sideways movement . Now the wings are level , so the touchdown will happen with the wheels first . Unfortunately , now the wheels ' rotation direction is not aligned with the runway , and to reduce wear , pilots kick the rudder just before touching the ground to re-orient the aircraft parallel to the runway . The <URL> and the <URL> can rotate their gear struts , which enables both aircraft to touch down in crabbed flight . All other types produce more tire smoke and jerk the aircraft sideways if they touch down this way .
While the question is fairly broad , looking at 61.51 is a good place to start , as well as 61.57 for some of the currency stuff . But let 's try and work out some of your examples : How should actual instrument be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log actual time if they are monitoring during instrument conditions ? 61.51 ( g ) is what dictates the logging of instrument time : ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . So barring any legal interpretations out there or regulations I 'm missing ( note , I 'm not an instrument rated pilot nor attorney ) , a strict reading of the reg would indicate that only an authorized instructor , conducting instrument flight instruction , can log instrument time when not operating the aircraft . How should landings be logged ? Should a PNF be able to log landings they were not at the controls for ? The short answer is no . Assuming the landings are being logged for currency reasons , 61.57 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) states that the person had to be the sole manipulator of the flight controls . 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( i ) says the same thing , but for night currency . How should approaches be logged ? Again , I 'm guessing this would be for instrument currency , at which point 61.57 ( c ) ( 1 ) would be in play . Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device that involves having performed the following - ( i ) Six instrument approaches . ( ii ) Holding procedures and tasks . ( iii ) Intercepting and tracking courses through the use of navigational electronic systems . Again , I 'm not an instrument pilot , but despite " sole manipulator of the controls " verbiage being absent in this particular paragraph , I 'm guessing the FAA would construe it to be the same . Of course , I 'm more than happy to be corrected should I be wrong .
In the US , ATC simply broadcasts a notification on whatever frequency is needed . For the terminal environment , section 2-9-2 of the <URL> says : Broadcast on all appropriate frequencies to advise aircraft of a change in the ATIS code/message . The phraseology is usually something like this : Attention all aircraft , Bowman information Kilo is now current . For en route operations ( see section 2-7-2 ) the ARTCC gives altimeter setting updates directly : Attention all aircraft , the Nashville altimeter now 2992
ICAO and FAA CAT III definitions A CAT III operation is a precision approach at lower than CAT II minima . Sub-categories are listed below . A category III A approach is a precision instrument approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 100ft ( 30m ) and a runway visual range not less than 700ft ( 200m ) . A category III B approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height or a decision height lower than 50ft ( 15m ) and a runway visual range less than 700ft ( 200m ) , but not less than 150ft ( 50m ) . A category III C approach is a precision approach and landing with no decision height and no runway visual range limitation . * I 've omitted the JAA definitions . Source <URL> . FAA Reference Material The below links are to comprehensive FAA publications covering the areas as titled . <URL> . <URL> . Thanks <URL> for the comment with links to these documents .
Aircraft are not always moved with <URL> ( the small vehicle you refer to ) . Much of the time , they operate under their own power . Airliners are generally pushed back from the gate using a tug , as that 's the simplest and most efficient method . They then taxi to the runway ( and all the way up to the gate , after landing ) using their own engines to provide thrust . This is true of both jets and propeller aircraft . Some work is being done on self-contained electric-powered ground propulsion ; one major player in this area is a company called <URL> . They use high-torque motors and the aircraft APU to allow the aircraft to move itself without starting its engines or requiring a tug to be connected and disconnected .
The Mode S address is not used for identification of aircraft in the higher levels of the ATC system such as the Flight Data Processing System . Mostly the assigned 12 bit code ( also known as Mode A code or squawk code ) is used to correlate a radar track to a flight plan . The major exception is that in Europe , when the Mode A code is set to 1000 ( octal notation ) , the Mode-S downlinked Aircraft Identity ( ACID ) is used for flight plan correlation . This is to free up Mode A codes . Usually planned flights are assigned discrete Mode A codes but using ACID / Flight ID correlation , multiple aircraft on a flight plan in the same area can use Mode A code 1000 . The downlinked ACID must be equal to the Flight ID used to file the flight plan . The Mode S 24 bit address is only used in low level systems ; in the Mode S radar , in multilateration systems , in ADS-B receivers and to some extend in tracking systems .
Yes , they are more expensive because they are more complex . I would not avoid buying a plane simply because it has a CS prop because , in the grand scheme of airplane ownership , CS prop maintenance has a small impact on your hourly cost . Maybe ~ $ 1/hr for a piston single with repetitive ADs . Now , the maintenance of a CS prop can range from a simple visual inspection of about \ $ 100 USD to a complete replacement of the prop ( up to \ $ 15,000 USD , maybe more for large props ) . An owner will likely not do an " overhaul " when the prop reaches TBO but will instead opt for an IRAN ( Inspect , Repair As Necessary ) . This is typically a little cheaper than a full blown overhaul and , from a practical perspective , extends the life of the propeller as an overhaul would . At some point you 'll end up grinding blades and balancing the prop but that 's not annual maintenance . I 've seen the cost quoted at around \ $ 1,500 USD for a high performance piston single IRAN which comes to less than $ 1/hr for a private owner . All in , a CS prop only adds a small amount to the hourly operating cost . In my opinion , the performance gains are worth the cost in most cases .
Directional stability When a swept wing is flying in a sideslip , the windward side behaves like a wing with less effective sweep $ \ varphi _ { eff } $ and the leeward side like one with more effective sweep . Wing sweep causes a flattening of the lift curve slope for two reasons : The effective angle of attack is reduced by the cosine of the sweep angle . Only the component of speed normal to the quarter-chord line of the wing is creating lift , so a swept wing creates less lift per area than a straight wing . The increased lift rolls the aircraft , but also produces increased lift-induced drag which pulls it back to straight flight . The sketch above shows this for the <URL> . This effect is so strong that swept , high-wing configurations need anhedral to keep the sideslip-induced rolling moment down . For completeness , also the side force $ Y$ of fuselage and winglets is added and shows that the winglets help a lot to create directional stability . This is needed in case of the SB-13 because it has a nearly elliptical lift distribution . Using a triangular distribution ( N9-M ) or even a bell-shaped distribution ( <URL> flying wings ) avoids the need for winglets , but causes higher induced drag in straight flight . Another downside is a low directional stability at high speed , because this sweep effect increases with the lift coefficient on the outer wing . Longitudinal stability Wing sweep also helps in longitudinal stability by stretching out the wing lengthwise . This is important for flying wings which lack a separate tail surface . By changing flap angles at the center or the wing tips , the lift at the most forward or most backward sections can be changed for pitch control , and more sweep increases the lever arm of these changes . Also , in swept flying wings natural static stability can be achieved without the use of reflex airfoils , but by applying washout . Again , the higher the sweep angle , the less washout is required . Too much sweep ? Easily ! Sweeping a wing creates lots of problems : Sweep reduces the lift curve slope and the maximum lift of a wing . The maximum landing attitude with a highly swept , slender wing is severely limited by wing tip clearance , so swept wings need powerful high-lift devices . Sweep causes the boundary layer to be washed outboard , which will cause nasty stall behavior once a specific ratio of wing aspect ratio and sweep has been exceeded . This can be somewhat limited by wing fences , but should better be avoided altogether . Sweep changes mean that bending moments will partially get converted to torsion moments , requiring a torsional stiffening of the wing . For flying wings , sweep will let the aircraft center pitch up and down when the wing flexes . This creates a powerful interaction between the fast period mode ( which is only moderately damped in flying wings ) with the wing bending mode , resulting in flutter . Why sweep a wing at all ? Generally , an aircraft designer will allow only as much sweep as necessary . Wing sweep reduces drag when the aircraft flies with transonic or supersonic speed . Now the Mach effects depend only on the normal speed component , so they are proportional to the cosine of the sweep angle . For the N9-M this was not a factor , however , the B-2 benefits from it with a higher <URL> .
On Nov 12 at about 1845 UTC , which would be about 1215 local on Nov. 13 , a Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , took off from BLR and did several touch-and-go 's at VOBG then returned to BLR . On Nov. 10 , around the same time , another Vistara A320 , reg . <URL> , did the same thing . Taking off from BLR , doing touch-and-go 's at VOBG before returning to BLR . According to <URL> @pondlife found , VOBG airport is open for pilot training .
I found this off the website after some searching : The advantages of the flying fuselage aircraft ( FFA ) category , compared to conventional aircraft ( CA ) category and flying body aircraft ( FBA ) category , are the following : In conventional aircraft design , the fuselage is aerodynamically neutral and joins only the separate parts of the aircraft . As the wings grow the buoyancy grows as well . In the flying body aircrafts , aerodynamic lift is produced only on the outside of the fuselage and the wings , which comprise a unite body . As the fuselage and wings grow , the generated lift becomes greater . In the flying fuselage aircraft the extra lift is generated from the interior of the fuselage and from the whole aircraft in and out . Thus , maximizing the full extent of the aerodynamic performance of the aircraft . Practically , the new category of the flying fuselage has the following advantages compared to the other categories above . i ) because of the greater generated lift , the aircraft is designed smaller in size , in order to have the same performance as its peers . ii ) due to the smaller dimensions of the aircraft , it occupies less space and needs a smaller hangar . ( cost reduction ) . iii ) the most important advantage is that during the flight in conventional and flying body aircrafts , stability comes only from the main wings dihedral , as well as the size of caudal . The flying fuselage design acts as a funnel and provides extra stability to the aircraft , making the air mass passing through the fuselage in a column of air ( air shaft ) . This is maximizing the stability of the aircraft in all angles and phases of flight . <URL> So what I think what they 're trying to say is that the body generates lift as well . It sounds mostly like something like a <URL> or <URL> in my opinion as a meeting point between a conventional and flying wing aircraft . In any case , the term FFA seems very uncommon and not widely used . <URL> The closest similar thing I 've found was this <URL> . The F-22 Raptor which it seems to closely mimic is not considered a flying wing nor a blended wing body , and after looking at the fuselage I remained a little unconvinced that it generates substantial lift as a body due to the substantial upper structure and lower structure .
1 ) Why does n't the tower use satellite throughout the flight ? The narrow answer is that the control tower is responsible for a small geographic area . The " tower " does n't want to talk to the craft at other points in the flight , so the need is not there . It only wants to talk to the plane when it is close to the tower 's airspace . Other components of air traffic control that do need to talk with airplanes in flight also divide up regions of the airspace and have radio equipment situated to talk to the necessary craft . A larger answer is that ground control and aircraft communications were under major development for decades before satellite communications were available . The system we use today is heavily based on line-of-sight VHF communication radio over most populated areas . Since these systems are already installed in many thousands of aircraft , changing to something different like satellite communication requires a significant benefit , someone to pay for it , and a lot of time to allow for the change . 2 ) Does a control tower only send voice services through the direct link ? or does it send data as well ? Data is beginning to be sent via <URL> . You can search for CPDLC on this site and find several questions and answers about it , but it is considered only a supplement to the voice communication of ATC today . Are n't there security issues or power safety issues involved in ground to air transmissions ? Unauthorized transmissions are possible , but they are managed and have n't traditionally been a big problem . There 's another question about <URL> . But much of the answer is that since ATC is monitoring the frequency , unauthorized transmissions would be heard and responded to . I 'm sure that future digital delivery will change some of these issues , but that 's likely to be true whether the message is transmitted via local radio transmitters or satellite . Not sure if that 's what you meant by security issues . I 'm not familiar with power safety issues .
end question
start question
Is it possible for an SU-25 to fly high enough to shoot down a Boeing 777 ?
There is an excellent answer at <URL> The <URL> is a ground attack fighter unsuited to intercepting and/or shooting down 777s . If the Ukrainian air force wanted to do so , they have better aircraft available . The SU-25 max speed is slower than a cruising 777 . The SU-25 has an operational ceiling of 16000 ft with max weapons to 23000 ft clean , MH17 was at 33000 ft. It is an unpressurised aircraft . As a ground attack aircraft it probably only rarely carries air to air missiles . It can carry the R-60 infra-red air-to-air missile which has a 6 lb warhead effective against small aircraft . An R-60 once hit and destroyed one engine of a small BAE 125 business jet at 35000 ft but failed to bring it down , apparently the missile failed to explode . <URL> , a Boeing 707 , was hit by an R-60 and made an emergency landing 40 minutes later . The R-60 is a short-range missile ( 5 miles ) . The Russians claim the SU-25 came within two or three miles of MH17 . On the whole this makes the SU-25 a poor choice for shooting down a cruising 777 . It seems unlikely that a 777 would be shot down in this way . Not impossible , but far less likely than other proposed scenarios such as those involving BUK ( SA-11 ) ground to air missiles . Results of an <URL> . Results of an <URL> ... two R-60s were launched , one missed . These R-60s were fired by supersonic interceptors , not by SU-25 ground-attack aircraft .
No . <URL> is pretty clear : No persons may dispense , or cause to be dispensed , from an aircraft , any material or substance in a manner that creates a hazard to persons or property on the surface . Flying directly over you or your house while spraying is illegal . There are factors like altitude etc , but spraying pesticides over people is rarely legal .
It 's entirely possible . Attitude control works the same way during autorotation as it does during normal powered flight . It 's a good thing , too ... during an autorotation you want to target your descent toward a suitable landing spot :-) To ( say ) roll right , moving the cyclic causes the swashplate to move in such a way that the rotor blade 's pitch ( angle of attack ) is greater during the left-side portion of the blade 's travel , and lower during the right-side portion . This produces more lift on the left side , which causes a right-rolling moment on the helicopter . The fact that the collective is all the way down and that the rotor 's RPM is being maintained by airflow through the rotor does not change the way the cyclic produces attitude changes . The anti-torque pedals still work too , although during an autorotation the pilot will promptly apply full right pedal , since lowering the collective will essentially eliminate torque from the rotor . Pedals can still be used for yaw though , as the tail rotor is still spinning ( it is linked to the main rotor ) . The " 180 ° turning autorotation " is a common maneuver taught in basic training , where the pilot must set up the autorotative descent and then complete a 180 ° turn toward a landing spot . For more information about autorotations in general , I recommend the FAA 's ( free online ) <URL> . See page 2-24 for a general description , and page 11-2 for procedures/technique . There are also lots of autorotation demonstration videos on <URL> that show maneuvering to a landing spot / 180 ° turns during the auto .
I understand your question as : " do we have yet the required interfaces for a computer to fully interact with an aircraft " . This is indeed the prerequisite before any intelligent system can pilot an aircraft . That means could we yet plug a system into some bus to receive all signals available to a human pilot and send all commands a human pilot can issue . The answer is no ( e.g. a computer can not lower the gears or receive electronic signals from the wet compass ) , but the required updates are not so large and involve limited retrofitting . Of course , we do n't have this computer yet , but this kind of software is not a huge step either ( and anyway this is not in the scope of your question ) . Would such system be economically profitable for an airline in term of safety , certification , operational cost , software maintenance , compared to a human first officer ? If the answer is yes , then this is a matter of maybe 10 years before a full electronic pilot is tested . I doubt the answer is yes , it could be useful , but it will have an additional cost , so there could be a long time before we see it in a cockpit .
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
According to <URL> 's medical guru on their discussion board ( members only , or I would link to an example ) it is possible to get a medical certificate following a tumor removal but only after a 5-year wait and a battery of tests . But having said that , medical issues are very individual and the FAA 's <URL> suggests that one year is enough in some cases . In the end the only way to get a definite answer is to find a good AME who can review your case in detail and advise you . Note that standard advice is to schedule a consultation first , rather than go straight for the actual flight medical . Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor or AME and I have no idea how brains work :-)
You 'll be on a flight plan . You 'll have to clear customs at a designated airport and file the appropriate paperwork . More info here : <URL> If you notify the border agency it will make recommendations if they think your flight poses a risk . There is only screening at Gatwick and Heathrow . <URL>
The flashing lights help to make the airplane more noticeable . They have also been <URL> to <URL> . This is offered as an option or <URL> for <URL> of aircraft . In addition to helping the pilots to see ahead of them when on the ground in dark conditions , landing lights help to make planes more visible to others . The FAA requires landing lights to be on for commercial flights under 10,000 feet , and <URL> at least when near an airport or in low visibility . Flashing the lights makes them less likely to be confused for something like a star at night .
Could winds of up to 150 km/h impact the structural loads on the B777-200LR ? Not at all . The dynamic pressures on the plane depend on the plane 's velocity with respect to the air , not the ground speed . Flying in 150 km/h tailwind is the same as flying with no wind , the plane 's indicated and true airspeeds wo n't be affected . <URL> is the plane 's velocity inside the fast moving wind tube . Since the jet stream itself is moving , it just moves the plane with it . With the added bonus of extra ground speed , or if you 're the pilot , a dreaded return flight -- unless you can avoid the now headwind , usually they are avoided for the Pacific and Atlantic routes , not as often for elsewhere . Here 's a 1200 km/h subsonic flight : <URL>
Greg covered this very well <URL> . The " miss by a surprising distance " bit is especially important here in the context of FAR 91.15 -- you would have to have a VERY large-scale paintball match for this to be viable , and some specific rules of engagement for the aircraft ( always firing " into " the arena area as you do n't want to miss and send a paintball into someone 's car or kitchen window as that would get some distinctly unfriendly attention from the FAA , and probably the local constabulary ) . Operationally , if we 're doing this with an airplane high-wing aircraft would obviously be the order of the day ( Cessna 152 ) , with a pilot ( whose sole job is to fly the airplane ) and a gunner/bombardier ( who is responsible for hitting targets on the ground ) . You really do n't want the pilot distracted by the game . Your weapons guy is going to have to be able to account for the aircraft 's speed and altitude in targeting ( which is pretty hard with an adjusted scope/bomb sight - doing it without one is going to be tough ) . As for shooting back at the plane , if we 're talking about a " regular " airplane ( something manned , like a Cessna 152 ) I would advise against allowing players to target the plane . At safe operating altitudes they 're unlikely to hit the plane , but if they do aircraft skin is very thin &amp; dent repair is very expensive : If someone is lucky enough to score a hit it could be a costly " death " . Now , as a paintball player myself I will tell you that I find the idea of death from above when I ca n't shoot back at the aircraft to be rather unsporting ! What I would suggest instead is to deploy <URL> . These can be had pretty cheaply and with some basic electronics skills they can be modified to carry/drop paint grenades ( think Squadbusters ) on your enemy . If you want to get really fancy add a GoPro or some other remote camera to help with targeting , or add a paintball gun to the thing <URL> . The FAA 's rules for " unmanned aerial systems " are still being written , but if you keep to the general rules for model aircraft ( below 400 feet , and not charging anyone money for the drone 's services ) I think you 'll be OK ( when the final rules come out you 'll have to review your drone for compliance ) . As a bonus if the drone is n't too large and you have an indoor arena with liberally-minded management you may even be able to use your drone during indoor games . ( Kill rules for the drone and its operator are left as an exercise for the players . )
To my surprise , this does exist , at least in the UK . According to the <URL> : 7 Emergency Triangle Procedure 7.1 Pilots lost or uncertain of position and experiencing either transmitter or complete radio failure are advised , as a last resort , to carry out special procedures to indicate to controllers that they require assistance . 7.2 The aircraft fly at least two triangular patterns , before resuming course , as follows : Table 1 : <URL> 7.3 If a triangular pattern is observed , controllers shall advise the D&amp;D cell of the position and track and continue to plot the aircraft whilst it is within ATS surveillance system cover . Controllers should also be aware of the effect wind may have on the pilot 's ability to fly an accurate triangle . I say " to my surprise " because there are well-established procedures for <URL> and <URL> . But having said that , it 's possible that the triangle procedure is more useful in the UK ( for example ) than the US , where there are usually plenty of uncontrolled airports around and many pilots have no need to talk to ATC anyway . In the UK , with a much smaller airspace , fewer airports and more ATC control ( at least , that 's my understanding ) , it may be more critical to give even VFR aircraft a " last resort " to contact ATC .
The use of airways is , as you already specified , based on altitude/flight level . To be able to transition from higher airways to lower airways and vice versa , they need to intersect at NAVAIDs , such as fixes , VORs or NDBs . Where no restrictions are in place for the use of an airway , the flightplan can just contain the fix where the transition from lower to upper airway will take place . Let 's take a look at this flightplan route from EGLL - London Heathrow to EDDG - Münster-Osnabrück : Lower and upper airways in Europe are distinguished by prefixing the airway designator with a U for Upper . At the end of our flight to Münster , we intend to switch from UZ907 to Z907 , because UZ907 does not connect to . The flightplan routing validator at the <URL> understands that is a STAR/transition entry point to Münster and therefore considers the airways altitude restrictions to be met during descent . If this was not the case and we would like to use airways restricted to certain altitudes/flightlevels , we would need to indicate this in the flightplan . Example : Airways Z1 can only be used between FL195 and 245 , airways UZ2 can only be used above FL245 . We want to file our flightplan with a step climb and a final cruise level of FL290 : With RFL290 entered into the validator , the flightplan would not be accepted , as Z1 is only available below FL245 . The portion of the flightplan to be accepted would need to be : In summary , you can switch between upper and lower airways , if you can meet the altitude/flightlevel restrictions and any other restriction bound to the airway . ICAO flavored anwer added on request by question op , even though original question is tagged with FAA .
For serial number 31-35 - Pilot seems to be Brookley , Wendell H - Homebase seems to have been Wright Field , Dayton , OH <URL> For serial number 31-85 - Pilot seems to be Larkin , James D. - Homebase seems to have been Boeing Field , Seattle , WA <URL> <URL>
As you pointed out in your question , no book is a substitute for actual instruction in an aircraft with a flight instructor . That being said , doing your homework and knowing what your instructor is going to expect goes a long way toward completing your training in a timely manner . The books here are all great reference texts to be combined with a flight instruction curriculum . FAA Publications / Books for initial training A surprising number of new student pilots are not aware of the wealth of information the FAA has compiled and published to help people learn to fly . There is a whole series of <URL> that you can take advantage of which are available from the FAA as well as from a variety of publishers like <URL> . While all of the regulatory information is geared toward US/FAA regulations much of the technique information , signs &amp; markings , etc. will be universal , in conformance with ICAO rules . I list a whole bunch of them here , but you can find a wealth of information by googling what you want to do and the words " FAA Handbook " . Books on Flying the aircraft - maneuvers , etc. . Quite simply if it flies the FAA probably has a book about how you should fly it . These books cover basic flying technique and the maneuvers the FAA expects pilots to be able to demonstrate . The popular ones include : <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-3A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-21A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-13A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-11A ) Books on " essential aviation knowledge " - Airport signs &amp; markings , " rules of the air " , etc. . <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-25A ) is the starting point here . <URL> is another key resource ( you will often find this as a combined " FAR/AIM " printed publication ) . Books for the more advanced stuff - Instrument ratings and beyond <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-15B ) and <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-16 ) are excellent references for pilots pursuing an instrument rating .
Although I used to think this was impossible , I now believe this can be done using weathervaning . At a fast enough forward speed , the airflow will naturally keep the helicopter facing in that direction . For an example of someone doing this in reality , for an almost identical time period that OP requested , see this link : <URL> According to the link , he needed to maintain 80 knots forward speed to prevent it from rotating out of control . Note whether this is possible may well depend on the weathervaning charactistics of the particular helicopter .
As Ron mentions in the comments here in the US it is not illegal by any specific regulations however ... Most GA aircraft ( the smaller ones at least ) only have a single set of instruments that reside in front of the left seat as you mention in the question . Lets say hypothetically you were flying right seat and something went wrong . Due to the angle of view you were not able to read an instrument and this lead to an accident . Lets say you lose your primary CDI/Glide Slope while flying an ILS approach and you need to use one on the far side of the cockpit . For some reason you are alone and in the right seat . If an accident did occur as a result of this you may be able to be held to <URL> ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . Since the left seat was open and available for you . But other than that there is no regulation preventing such operation . <URL> posted an <URL> in the comments below that has at least one quote worth mentioning Aircraft insurance policies and flying club rules often specify that all flying is to be done from the left seat unless the pilot holds a current flight instructor certificate or has specific authorization . While this is not an FAA regulation insurance companies or the rental/flight club you get your plane from may stipulate left seat only flying .
Then It used to matter , because aircraft would sometimes approach the carrier at a lower altitude than even the flight deck before pulling up briefly and practically stalling onto the deck , allowing for a lower speed landing . Similarly , the higher flight deck would give an extra couple of metres of acceleration if over-shooting the flight deck and having to go around . As such a high-decked carrier gave a little more margin for error . Now It makes virtually no difference - modern aircraft approach at the same angle and airspeed regardless of the height of the deck ( within reason ) . They also perform approaches significantly more accurately . If anything , the higher deck could be considered a ( very ) slight disadvantage , as it may display a higher rolling moment than a low deck carrier . This is unlikely to cause any issues , however .
As of currently , the answer to this question is in principle no for commercial aircraft , at least not remotely . There are two parts to this : From a system perspective : Aircraft systems could probably be ' hacked ' - assuming you could for instance screw up the flight computer by changing the chips in the belly - but there is no way you could really pull this off without the pilots noticing the course being way off from the compass for instance , so they 'd figure out and shut it off . Many systems are not connected in a way that allows them to be cause damage to others . Systems are also pretty dedicated - if it 's supposed to fly the plane , that 's what it does , if it 's supposed to navigate , that 's what it does . Systems on aircraft generally a have limited , if any , connection to the outside world . There are a few systems that have the ability to connect to the ground , and this is generally limited to simple text messages . Most of the electronics on the 777 are from the type 's introduction in 1994 . A decent analogy I think is trying to hack an early cell phone remotely . And from a practical standpoint : Aircraft are generally very stiff when it comes to changes - they are often approved in a certain configuration , and that then sticks , so there 's little need to change stuff , and hence it 's not possible . This applies to the autopilot and flight controls - once it 's there , it stays there . As a few people have pointed out , these systems are proprietary and closed source , making it difficult to program them if you 're an outsider , but in theory it might be possible . The fact that no aircraft , even the computer-intensive Airbus , have really been hacked to any extent , the notion that the entire aircraft would be taken over and flown somewhere is impossible . As for original question <URL> : " The FAA has determined that the hacking technique described during a recent computer security conference does not pose a flight safety concern because it does not work on certified flight hardware , " he said . " The described technique can not engage or control the aircraft 's autopilot system using the FMS or prevent a pilot from overriding the autopilot , " said Dorr . " Therefore , a hacker can not obtain ' full control of an aircraft , ' as the technology consultant has claimed , " said Dorr . On a similar accord , I think I heard a story about a Bombardier Dash 8 that got a computer virus once , but I think it never got beyond the navigation system , the most processing intensive part . Unfortunately , I ca n't find a source for this .
For the general question , the answer will be " it depends on the aircraft . " Specifically for the 787 , though , the ' 7E7 ' program was officially announced on <URL> . The program was later renamed to 787 . It received its type certificate on <URL> and flew its first passenger revenue flight on <URL> . So , from the time the program began to the time of the first revenue flight was about 8 years and 9 months . Of course , this is not including the R&amp;D time invested on different projects whose R&amp;D ended up being used either partially or completely in the 787 design before the 787 program itself began . It should also be noted that not every airframe they start developing ever actually flies . Notably , Boeing worked on designs including <URL> and the <URL> ( which would have cruised at Mach 0.98 ) before beginning the 7E7 program . In addition to completely new airframes , aircraft manufacturers also commonly make derivative airframes based on existing product families . Current examples of derivatives in development include the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( " neo " stands for " new engine option . " ) However , development time on derivatives can vary widely depending on how much modification is being made to the existing airframes and the level of resources being devoted to the project ( which depends on market pressure . ) For a past example , the 2nd-generation Boeing 777 aircraft were announced on <URL> with the first aircraft , the 777-300ER , being certificated on <URL> , and first service entry on <URL> . This gives a time of about 4 years and 2 months from announcement to first service entry . This was likely slowed by the sharp downturn in aircraft orders following the 1999-2000 " . com bust " and , especially , the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Also important is the FAA rule for applying for a type certificate . This will apply for new programs like the 787 , but not for derivative programs like the 777X , which amend the original type certificate and do not need a new one . In <URL> : An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years ... So once Boeing applies for a new type certificate , they have 5 years to get the type cetificate approved , unless they convince the FAA upfront that more time is needed . If the time runs out they must reapply , and the new type certificate would require the aircraft to comply with all new regulations passed since their original application .
The short answer is " Yes " , if the pilot is not properly trained , does n't trust their instruments , or has an instrumentation failure . Without a visual reference ( such as the real horizon or artificial horizon ) it 's very easy for a pilot to place their aircraft in an " unusual attitude " -- something other than the expected straight-and-level flight or commanded turn . As humans we naturally rely on our inner ear and sense of balance to tell us what 's " up " or " down " , but in a moving aircraft you can move through a whole range of attitudes in " 1G maneuvers " ( where your body thinks down is where your seat is ) . Little micro-movements we unconsciously make on the controls ( or larger movements we may make consciously in response to turbulence or other perceved disturbances in the aircraft 's attitude ) based on what our ears and butts are telling us will eventually get us into trouble . It 's so easy that often instructors will have students create their own unusual attitudes in training by having the student close their eyes and simply try to fly straight and level - within a few minutes at most the student will invariably no longer be in level flight . There 's an exercise you can do on the ground to illustrate how imperfect your sense of balance and direction is , but it requires a large , flat , open area . We 'll use an American Football field for this example : Stand on one of the goal lines Have a friend stand at the 50 yard line ( about 45 meters away ) Close your eyes or put on a blindfold , count to ten , and walk directly toward your friend Stop when you reach your friend ( or your friend yells " STOP " because you 're about to walk into a goal post ) Most people will not make it to their friend on the 50 yard line , because without a visual reference it 's very hard to walk a straight line : You will veer off one way or the other , and some folks will even manage to walk in a complete circle ( which is what eventually tends to happen over a large enough distance ) . The same principles apply to flight , except there 's a third dimension ( vertical ) to contend with .
end question
start question
How high do they cut the grass on airports ?
It depends on the type of bird and mammal species in native to the area and also the type of grass used in turfing ; some of them may not survive if mowed very closely . FAA 's <URL> concedes : Species-specific responses may be expected . ... Airport managers need to work with airport wildlife biologists to determine what species of concern in regards to aircraft safety are in their area and what the habitat needs are for those species . For most airports , FAA recommends a height of 5-8 " of grass . Considering bird , mammal and vegetation limitations , mowing at least monthly at a target of 5 - 8 inches may work in many airport environments as part of a wildlife hazard management program . ... Mowing at 5 - 8 inches should also reduce small mammal abundance .
You stay vigilant by having seen things go wrong . <URL> the importance of a proper preflight is drilled into you by your primary instructor from day one in light aircraft , and that mentality carries through all the way up to heavy transport-category aircraft : You want to find any problems you can while you 're on the ground , because if you take a problem into the air with you it 's a decision you can quickly come to regret . Personally I 've found all sorts of " interesting " things on preflight inspections of light aircraft , including ( but not limited to ) : Mud wasps building a nest in the pitot tube Mud wasps building a nest in the fuel drain ( still do n't know what was up with that ) Missing screws from a fairing Flat-spot on a tire A tennis ball stuffed in between two cylinders ( a common flight instructor trick to see if students are doing a thorough preflight ) Position light lenses installed backwards ( another common CFI trick , but this one was actually a maintenance shop screw-up ) Various light bulbs burned out Water in the fuel after a heavy storm . I 've also heard some scary stories : Migrating colony of bees hanging out on the tail of the aircraft ( described as " The tail was literally dripping bees " ) Flight controls rigged backwards Big gouge in the wingtip ( acquired by the previous pilot scraping the tip against another plane 's tail taxiing in on the ramp ) The ever-classic " ran out of fuel because you did n't visually check the tanks "
Airbus aircraft have 3 hydraulic systems ( Green , Blue , Yellow ) . Green is pressurized by left engine , Yellow by right engine , and each one can be pressurized by the other using the PTU . In addition the Yellow circuit has an electric pump . The Blue circuit is a backup pressurized on demand by several means ( electric pump and RAT ) . Each circuit powers different aircraft components : <URL> Source : <URL> The choice of which engine ( s ) to use is based on the need to have pressure : For brakes For nose wheel steering system . Normal brakes and nose wheel steering are pressurized by the Green system . The brake accumulator must be pressurized , this can be done by running the an electric pump without starting an engine . . Engines are numbered 1 for left , 2 for right on twin-engined aircraft and from left to right ( 1/2 and then 3/4 ) for four-engined aircraft . From <URL> : Which Engine to Use ? A320 Family : ENG 1 A330 : ENG 1 A340 : Outer engines ( ENG 1 + 4 ) Why ? A320 Family : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) YELLOW HYD pressurized via ELEC PUMP PTU is not needed A330 : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN + BLUE HYD HYD BLUE ensures ACCU PRESS ELEC PUMP are not needed A340 ( outer engines when possible -- exception would be a narrow taxiway and FOD risk ) : ENG 1 + 4 pressurize GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) Check ACCU PRESS normal before ENG start ELEC PUMP are not needed
I like to show people videos of <URL> These videos show that wind does not have an effect on how well the aircraft stays in the air - no matter how strong it is , it only effects the path taken over the ground . A steady wind makes zero difference to the aerodynamics , whether it is a piper cub or a 747 . The aircraft does n't know what the wind is doing - comparable to you closing your eyes while floating on a smooth flowing river , you would n't think you are moving . The stated crosswind limit is only for landing , when you need to be able to fly in a straight line with precision . I think the big thing you 're forgetting is that the wind correction angle is affected by the true airspeed ( TAS ) . The faster the TAS , the less correction is needed for the same wind . Think about it , if you are travelling forward at a faster velocity , it will take a bigger force to knock you off course . 737s have a TAS of about 400-450kts , so whilst a 150kt wind is strong , it 's not all that different to a 30kt wind in a GA aircraft . 99 % of the time there will be a crosswind component of some kind , but the method of correction for jets is no different to GA - just point the noise into wind as per your calculations . Back to flying backwards for a minute . The only safety issue would be if the wind were to suddenly stop . The aircraft indicated airspeed would suddenly be 0 and a potentially unrecoverable stall could develop . But one thing many ' ground dwellers ' do n't appreciate is that the wind - in fair weather - is actually fairly constant when it is not effected by ground obstacles and friction . Generally speaking , the higher you go , the more steady and predictable the wind will be .
You start from wrong assumptions , which explains your doubts . The line the induced drag is due to the tip vortices is as true as saying that wet streets cause rain . Also , the opinion that the tip vortices strength will be as same as the bound vortex is wrong . Unfortunately , <URL> themselves and copy what <URL> without thinking the issue through . Ideally , you would forget about all what you have heard about vortices and lifting lines , but since you ask I will try to explain <URL> a little . In potential flow theory , lift is caused by vortices which are caused by the movement of a wing through air . These vortices run along a closed line : Within the wing they form the bound vortex , then they leave the wing backwards as trailing vortices and are connected at the point where the movement started by the <URL> . Now comes the important part which <URL> : There is no single vortex ; instead , potential flow assumes an infinite number of infinitesimally small vortices which form out of nowhere when lift is increased or speed is reduced . Consequently , no single vortex leaves the wing at the tips , instead , a sheet of vortices leaves the wing at the trailing edge . The change in strength of the bound vortices over span is equivalent to the strength of the vortices leaving the wing , so the vortices fade out towards the tips . My advice is : If you do not want to operate or to write a potential flow code , do yourself a favor and forget all that . It is much better to interpret lift as the consequence of a pressure field around a wing which <URL> downwards . <URL> is simply the component of the resulting pressure forces parallel to the direction of movement , while the perpendicular component is lift . Please make sure to follow at least the last link ; it gives a very good explanation what induced drag really is . Tip vortices are the consequence of air filling the void above the downward moving air behind the wing . They are not originating from the wingtips , but the consequence of the vortex sheet rolling up ( if you want to stay in that picture ) . Note that the distance between the cores of the vortices is <URL> . For an elliptic wing of span $ b $ , it is actually only $ \ frac { \ pi } { 4 } \ cdot b $ A higher wingspan allows to capture more air for lift creation , so less downward acceleration is needed . Lower downwash speed also causes a less powerful trailing vortex . Note that the mass of air affected by the wing grows with the square of the wingspan !
The first turbofan , the <URL> , had just a bypass ratio of 0.25 . It was designed for installation into the wing root of airplanes like the <URL> bomber or the <URL> transport project , so RR strived to keep the diameter small . Of course , back then nobody distinguished low - and high-bypass engines . The <URL> , which powered most of the second generation of jet airliners ( Boeing 707 and DC-8 ) , had a bypass ratio of less than 1.5 . But when the new generation of engines ( <URL> , <URL> ) with bypass ratios of around 5 were developed for the first generation of wide body jets , marketing needed a term to make clear that this was a new generation of engines , and the high-bypass ratio engine category was born . Generally , the threshold is around 5 , but note that some CF-6 versions have bypass ratios as low as 4.24 and still fall into the high bypass ratio category . Therefore , <URL> sets the limit at a bypass ratio of 4 . There is no technical difference between a low - and a high-bypass engine , and the limit is arbitrary . The jump in bypass ratio from 1.5 to 5 brought significant improvements in specific fuel consumption and noise reduction , but part of the technical progress was also from better materials and aerodynamics , which allowed higher compression ratios and turbine entry temperatures . Now , almost 50 years later , we see the first engines with <URL> entering service . Designs are being readied with bypass ratios of 12 , so marketing will need a new word to describe those creations . With " ultra high bypass " already taken by the <URL> crowd , the search is on .
Pressurization is controlled by two processes : air in and air out . Air is constantly being let out of the cabin through ( at least ) 2 outflow valves , typically located at the aft limit of the pressure vessel . Air is let into the cabin through the air cycle machines ( a.k.a the " packs " ) which are provided with very hot and high pressure air from the compressor stage of the engines and eventually output into the cabin through the air conditioning vents . During normal cruise flight , the mass flow rate of air into the cabin is constant ( because the flow rate through the engine compressor is constant ) , thus pressurization is maintained by actuating the outflow valves . Open them up a little more to raise the cabin altitude , close them up a little more to descend the cabin altitude . Note that while maintaining a constant cabin altitude the outflow vales are partially open -- the incoming air is more than adequate to pressurize the airplane . When a main cabin door or something bigger is opened , the airplane will no longer maintain pressurization and everyone must don oxygen masks to avoid unconsciousness . With a planned cabin dump , masks will be donned before the cabin is evacuated , which will happen before any doors are opened . As noted by others , the pilot oxygen is fed from cylinders of pure oxygen and will last a long time . Passenger emergency oxygen is from chemical oxygen generators and lasts 12-15 minutes . I 'm not sure what type of oxygen masks the HALO jumpers would wear , but presumably they have portable oxygen for the jump not related to the airplane oxygen facilities . When all of the jumpers are away the doors are closed and once again the airplane is capable of pressurization . The outflow valves will be commanded closed and the cabin altitude will start descending . Once the cabin altitude is back down to normal levels , the crew will remove and stow their oxygen masks . There is no need to descend to accomplish this because the air provided by the engines is much higher pressure than even sea level air . Re-pressurization is accomplished by closing up the airplane and letting air accumulate in the cabin , thus raising the pressure . Once the target pressure is realized ( ~ 8000 ft ) , then the outflow valves partially open to stop descending the cabin and to maintain the target pressure .
The DOF_README.PDF includes the following field description : Type of Lighting " R " : Red " D " : Medium intensity White Strobe &amp; Red " H " : High Intensity White Strobe &amp; Red " M " : Medium Intensity White Strobe " S " : High Intensity White Strobe " F " : Flood " C " : Dual Medium Catenary " W " : Synchronized Red Lighting " L " : Lighted ( Type Unknown ) " N " : None " U " : Unknown Since the charting would only use the " High Intensity " label if it was known , it would map to types H and S. It 's also useful to note that the <URL> adds the following note : High-intensity lights may operate parttime or by proximity activation .
Adding to what the others have mentioned , bad weather is often a combination of low visibility , low ceilings , precipitation , high winds and lightning . Visibility and ceilings As mentioned in @fooot 's answer , ILS is available to land when in these conditions . Every airliner and crew ( and just about every airport they 'd go into ) is trained and equipped for ILS operations . A standard ILS approach is good in weather down to 200 ft ceilings and 1800 or 2400 ft visibility along the runway ( RVR ) . Further airplane and airport equipment and aircrew training can allow ILS category II and III operations , which reduce these numbers ( cat II is 100 ft vertical visibility and RVR 1200 , cat III goes down to essentially no visibility ) . To takeoff , a 2 engined airliner needs 5000 ft RVR ( 1 mile vis ) normally . Airport lighting and airline opspecs can reduce this as low as RVR 300 . Wind High winds are fine , but can make the landing more challenging . When the winds are strong and particularly gusty , a lower flap setting can be used to land and a faster approach speed flown . This will , however , necessitate a long landing rollout . Exceptional crosswinds can also present problems aligning the aircraft with the runway , and if you ca n't line up , you ca n't land ( note that some larger airplanes can land in a crab and do not need to align with the runway until the main gear are on the ground ) . Runway condition You mention the wheels are not powered , and this is true . However , the friction between the runway and the contact patch on the tire is the only thing keeping the airplane on the runway in strong crosswinds , so you need friction to land ( or takeoff ) if there is a crosswind component . Anything reducing friction is problematic ( rain , snow , ice , rubber , etc ) , With high water you risk hydroplaning and this ( or snow/ice ) can lead to departures from the runway sides or an overrun if braking action is insufficient due to lack of friction . Ice needs to be chemically treated and snow must either be treated or plowed at regular intervals ( while it is snowing ) . Ground handlers at the airport must also have deice fluid and the equipment to apply it to aircraft available for operations in snow . Lightning When lightning is in the vicinity , ground crews go inside as it is a deadly hazard to be on the ramp in those conditions . Summary All of these things contribute to lowered arrival rates into the airport and as conditions deteriorate you reach a point where you are spending more time dealing with keeping the airport open than departing airplanes and it makes sense to close the airport temporarily .
Table of contents Future focii Short answer - Important : stealth , sensors ( radar &amp; IR ) , data fusion , networking , long-range weapons . Unimportant : dogfighting with guns . Future counter-detection and counter-measures - Important : RF and IR stealth , lasers , hard-kill defenses How will stealth fighters fight each other ? - including THE MOST IMPORTANT LESSON Busting myths Myth : Stealth aircraft ca n't use radars / radars reveal your location - LPI radar Myth : IR sensors render stealth obsolete - IR range is short ; shorter than radar range against nonstealthy a/c , but greater than radar range against stealthy a/c Myth : US lags behind Russia/Europe in IR tech - US had less need ( better radars ) ; US has very good IR tech Myth : Stealth makes you invisible to radar - very hard to see , not invisible Myth : Stealth is obsolete / a hoax / just marketing - vastly reduced detection range ; more efficient jamming ; dictate engagements Myth : WWII/low-freq radars make stealth obsolete / an F-117 was shot down with this one simple trick - Low-freq radars have limited use ; F-117 story is untrue . Myth : most combat is WVR dogfighting - not since the 1960s Myth : Guns are primary weapons . F-4 's were massacred by obsolete MiG-21s in Vietnam because they did n't have guns . F-4 guns myth - the F-4s did just fine Welcome to the BVR missile era - where missiles take all the credit , and you usually do n't see your enemy Resources - for modern air combat Glossary As aircraft become stealthier , we 'll rely more on the following : Non-radio sensing IR search and track ( IRST ) Optical sensing ( EO/IR are/can be combined into essentially an EO/IR telescope . Future designs will use multiple bands ( MWIR , SWIR , color HDTV ) , have wider fields of view Mid-future : laser tracking and targeting . High-powered lasers ( 100s of kW ) for fighters <URL> , but in the meantime they could obtain very high quality bearing , range , speed , and altitude information . Networking and data fusion Highly integrated aircraft sensors Off-board targeting Eg , a very stealthy sensor platform feeding targeting info to less stealthy ( even non-stealthy ) launch platforms . Advanced radars Multi-band or broadband radars ( integrated mid/high-frequency capabilities ) More powerful AESA radars Better processing Multi-static arrays to detect side-aspect radar returns . Side-looking radars . Again , VLO a/c are not equally stealthy in all directions . They are least detectable from the front aspect . For instance , the F-22 was to be upgraded with cheek-mounted , side-looking radars , but these were cancelled to reduce cost . Even better stealth Short answer Detection ranges will shrink ( against other LO fighters ) . IR sensors may become the primary means of detection . Fighters may cruise at low subsonic speeds to delay detection . Radar will still remain the primary sensor for years to come ( at least 2 decades , the minimum time for adversaries to field large numbers of LO a/c ) . Stealth remains essential . DATA FUSION and NETWORKING become hugely important ; large forces must fight as seamless units . Remote targeting will become more common . Very , very stealthy sensors ( eg , F-22 successor ) may pass targeting info to less stealthy shooters ( eg , F-22 , F-35 , F-15 , missile truck with VLRAAMs ) Future AAMs will feature datalinks and multimode seekers ( eg , IR , RF , and laser ) , improving counter-measure resistance . Many AAMs already have datalinks -- shooter guides the missile until the missile 's own seeker acquires the target . Advanced propulsion systems debut ( multi-pulse motors , ducted-rocket/ramrockets , scramjets ) , yielding longer range , higher speed , imrpoved kinematics . Defenses will improve , requiring deeper magazines ( smaller weapons and/or larger internal payload bays ) . Space , weight , power , and cooling requirements go up . Aircraft grow larger . Dogfighting will remain rare . Short-range , maneuvering combat will remain unsurvivable with the advent of reliable , high-performance , high Pk , HOBS missiles and helmet-mounted cueing systems . Also , lasers do n't miss . ( See below . ) 5th gen fighters ( F-22 , F-35 ) will thoroughly dominate over 4th gen fighters ( F-15 , Su-35 , Typhoon ) . Regarding counter-detection and counter-measures Fighters will better hide their RF and IR signature . See : engine exhaust troughs on F-117 , B-2 , YF-23 , and 6th gen fighter concepts . See : AETD , ADVENT , and F135 upgrades . Tails may disappear . EW ( eg , jamming ) will remain important ( See : ) . DIRCM ( directed IR countermeasures , an IR laser to jam/kill missile IR seekers ) will protect fighters and bombers . Already slated for the F-35 . Hard-kill missile defenses will debut ( likely small anti-missile missiles in near-term ; anti-missile lasers 20 + years hence ) . Today , we rely primarily on soft-kill defenses , like jamming and decoys . Answering the question : how will stealth fighters fight each other ? With better sensors and better stealth . With mid -
Heathrow is somewhat of a standout when it comes to volume . Your wording , that LHR " gets by " with 2 runways is apt . By movements , it is the busiest 2-runway airport in the world . By passenger volume it is second only to Dubai Intl. ( Note , though , that DXB is home to Emirates , who has the world 's largest fleet of A380 's . They are the only airport that averages over 200 passengers per movement ! ) Aircraft movement is the best way to look at it from a runway usage standpoint . The following chart is sorted by aircraft movement . * <URL> As you can see , the top 3 all have 5 or more runways . There are 7 large airports with 5 or more rwys and they all fall in the top 16 . The top 16 is rounded out by 5 airports with 4 runways , one with 3 runways and ... LHR . The next 2-rwy airport on the list is Benito Juarez Intl. in Mexico City clear down at 21st on the list . Any busy airport with 2 runways has to make those runways work as tightly as possible with little room for error . Otherwise they end up with delays . If I sort the list by movements per rwy , all of those with 2 rwys rise to the top . 10 of the top 15 have 2 rwys . <URL> So , how does LHR pull it off ? How do they manage to pack all those flights in to just two runways?There 's a downside to handling that kind of volume with so few runways . The following collage gives a clue as to what that is . <URL> Those are just a random pick of arrivals at a couple of random times yesterday morning at LHR . There was no significant weather at the times . As you can see , you just do n't arrive at LHR without being put in a holding stack . Every single flight I could find had to do at least one racetrack . At any point during the day , in places like Chesham , Effingham and Brentwood , if you look up there will be as many as 6 or 7 aircraft doing racetracks waiting to be cleared into Heathrow . That makes for very efficient runway usage when there are 20 planes waiting in line , but it 's terribly inefficient for the airlines and passengers to have to spend so much time burning fuel circling around London . On the flip side , building more runways has a down side too . It will get the planes out of the air quicker , but , as happens at Schipol - which has 6 runways - you can end up with a long taxi back to the terminal . All data was taken from Wikipedia .
Yes , such system exists , for example the <URL> . * It was <URL> and installed as an option on the Boeing 707-300 freight aircraft . Other aircraft that had a similar ( optional ) system include the L1011 and Boeing 747 . It is mostly found on freight aircraft because they have a less predictable load distribution ( centre of gravity ) than passenger aircraft . The reason they are not common is that they add cost in the form of installation , weight and maintenance . While quite accurate when in good condition , the reliability of the weighing systems used to be poor , which probably contributed to the fact they never became wide spread . Because crew are commonly operating on several aircraft types these days that have take-off weights of more than 100 metric tonne difference ( e.g. A330 and A340 , B747-400 and B747-8 ) there is an increase in take-off weight confusion related incidents . This , combined with the fact that systems are becoming more reliable , makes it likely that these weighing systems will be used more in the future . * An <URL> in a 1987 Flight issue .
I think one thing that does not get emphasized enough : Pilots do not land airplanes!In fact , we try to keep the airplane flying as long as possible ! We systematically rob the airplane of energy ( energy from engine power , energy from airspeed , energy from altitude ) until the plane can no longer fly , and settles gently on the runway . But even as the plane is landing , the pilot is still trying to coax it back into the air to remove as much energy as possible . A big student mistake is to point the airplane at the runway , and try to force it to land there . That leads to landings too fast , too high , big bounces , porpoising , and sometimes nose-in crashes . So do n't think about " how am I going to land this thing ? " Instead think about " How am I going to remove more energy from the equation to lose altitude and airspeed ? " A landing is a series of precise targets you are aiming to hit , each with less energy than the last one ( but each one still with enough energy to keep flying and be safe ) Each target consists of Position ( horizontal and altitude ) , airspeed , and descent rate . You hit each of these targets at 3 different points on a square ( abeam the numbers , downwind-to-base , and base-to-final ) Hitting a target that consists of a position + airspeed + descent rate is not easy ! But the more precisely you can hit each target , the easier the next part is . Although I hope I 'm repeating the same instructions you 've already heard , for the sake of the Site , let me re-iterate the standard instructions for a C-172 . Be level at TPA ( airport + 1000 feet ) , and at a cruise speed of approximately 100 kts . The runway should be approx 3/4 of the way up your strut . When you are abeam the numbers , Carb Heat ( if applicable ) , throttle back to approx 1,600 RPM , and pull-back as necessary to maintain altitude ( the consequence will be that you slow down ) . Watch your speed , altitude and position . Drop flaps 10 & deg ; when speed allows , and aim to hit a speed of 85 kts , an altitude loss of 250 feet , and have the numbers at 45 & deg ; behind you , all at the same time . Turn the corner to base , using approximately 30 & deg ; of bank angle . Continue to reduce speed ( by pulling back ) to hit 75 kts , and drop altitude another 250 ft. ( you 're now 500 ft above the runway ) . Add Flaps 20 when appropriate . Turn the corner to final . You can " oval " your turn if you are undershooting the centerline , but do NOT over-bank if you have overshot the centerline . Aim for the centerline , acquire a PAPI/VASI , keep an eye on your airspeed relative to approach speed ( 68 kts ) . Watch 3 and ONLY 3 things : Airspeed ( Slowing towards 68 kts ) Centerline ( left ? right ? on target ? ) Slope ( PAPI/VASI ? Light configuration ) . Keep repeating " Airspeed , Centerline , Slope " out loud , describe if you 're too far/too close on each one , and describe how you 're going to correct . For example : " Airspeed : 75 kts ; too fast ; pulling back to slow down " " Centerline : Left of center ; coming slightly right " " Slope : 3 red +1 white is too low ; adding power to slow descent " ( repeat ! ) When the runway is made , drop final flaps , engine to idle , and prepare to flare when you 're about 10-15 feet , and hopefully right at the numbers . Remember that your altitudes are 1000 , 750 , 500 , touchdown . And your airspeeds are 85 , 75 , 65 .
Left , right and centre . For example , Heathrow has 27 left ( 27L ) and right and 09 left ( 09L ) and right . <URL> <URL> Here 's an example for an airfield with a 34 left runway . <URL> If there are more than three runways more or less parallel , one or more runway numbers will be shifted by 10 degrees , e.g. 08L , 08C , 08R , 09R . From <URL> At large airports with four or more parallel runways ( for example , at Los Angeles , Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County , Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta , Denver , Dallas-Fort Worth and Orlando ) some runway identifiers are shifted by 10 degrees to avoid the ambiguity that would result with more than three parallel runways . For example , in Los Angeles , this system results in runways 6L , 6R , 7L , and 7R , even though all four runways are actually parallel ( approximately 69 degrees ) . At Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , there are five parallel runways , named 17L , 17C , 17R , 18L , and 18R , all oriented at a heading of 175.4 degrees . Occasionally , an airport with only 3 parallel runways may use different runway identifiers , for example when a third parallel runway was opened at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport in 2000 to the south of existing 8R/26L , rather than confusingly becoming the " new " 8R/26L it was instead designated 7R/25L , with the former 8R/26L becoming 7L/25R and 8L/26R becoming 8/26 .
There are a few ways to sense ice on an airframe . The <URL> here that outlines the various types of sensors . First and foremost planes have ice lights that project onto the wings so they can be visually inspected . There are <URL> that use a variety of methods to detect ice . There are also some electro mechanical devices , here are a few examples , the rest are outlined in the <URL> . Penny and Giles The Penny and Giles system uses a probe type sensor that measures ice buildup in terms of Liquid Water Content ( LWC ) . This system was designed specifically for use on helicopters and is available for all turbine-powered helicopters . Rosemount The sensing probe is driven magnetostrictively to vibrate at its resonant frequency of 40,000 Hz . As the ice detector enters an icing environment , ice collects on the sensing probe . The added mass of the accreted ice causes the frequency of the sensing probe to decrease in accordance with the laws of classical mechanics . Sunstrand The Sunstrand system uses a mounted probe with a sensing surface facing the airstream . Beta particles are released from a Strontium 90 Radiation Source and are collimated by a specially shaped window in the probe housing . These particles pass across the sensing surface to a Geiger-Muller tube . High voltage is applied to the Geiger-Muller tube to enable it to detect the radiation emitted by the Strontium 90 source . Ice accretion on the probe decreases the beta particles detected by the tube . When the particle count drops below a pre-set level , a pulse rate discriminating amplifier energizes an icing signal visible to the flight crew . At this time a heater inside the probe is activated , the ice is removed from the probe , and the probe is ready to begin another icing cycle . Some of these will work in a static situation while others may require the passage from a non icing environment to an icing situation .
You should definitely not attempt flight if there is frost on the windows that would affect visibility , or on any of the wings or flight control surfaces . Frost accumulation on such surfaces can reduce the lift generated by your wings , possibly causing a crash on takeoff . <URL> , frost the size of a grain of salt , distributed as sparsely as one per square centimeter over a wing 's upper surface , can destroy enough lift to prevent a plane from taking off . The cheapest solution is to try to re-position the plane on the ramp so that the sunlight has a chance to melt it away . You can also temporarily move the plane into a heated hangar until it melts , or ask the FBO to do so for you . If the forecast is predicting a chance of such conditions the night before , you can usually call the FBO on the night before and ask them to move your plane into their hangar just for the night , in advance of your morning flight . If you 're really anxious to go , you can ask the FBO to apply a heated deicing solution to your plane , but be prepared to pay for it ( it 's priced by the gallon and the amount needed will depend on the size and amount of frost of your plane ) . Not all FBOs will have deicing capabilities , particularly if the region does not commonly experience such conditions .
According to <URL> DFW ( <URL> ) is the largest at 4360 hectares . According to <URL> DXB ( <URL> ) has the largest terminal in terms of floorspace at 1,713,000 m2 ( 18,440,000 sq ft ) with a volume of approximately 10.0 million m ³ ( 360 million cu ft ) According to <URL> ATL ( <URL> ) has 206 gates Ca n't find this one
Very very uncommon . Goose Bay , Canada , is a diversion airport for US-Europe flights . If you search <URL> for " goose " , you will find about 2 to 3 flights divert there each year . 3 flights diverted in 2017 : Delta A330 Oct 20 , engine problem SAS A340 April 16 , low cabin pressure Air France A380 Sep 30 , engine structural failure 2 flights diverted in 2016 : Virgin B787 Nov 22 , engine oil leak United B767 Sep 15 , generator/APU failure 3 flights diverted in 2015 : American B757 Sep 30 , electrical problem Delta B767 July 31 , generator failure United B767 June 12 , flight controls 2 flights diverted in 2014 : Delta B767 Aug 9 , engine problem Delta B767 May 1 , engine shut down In all these incidents except for 2 , the report in Aviation Herald states a replacement aircraft was required . Sometimes the delay was 6 hours , sometimes the next day . In the 2 other incidents , it 's unclear if a replacement aircraft was required or not , but in both cases maintenance was required , so at least a delay occurred . This compares with a bird strike , or fumes/smoke in the cabin , almost daily somewhere . It 's much rare than even lightning strikes , of which 25 were reported in 2017 .
The facility under duress will declare " ATC Zero " and all traffic will be handed off to other controllers while that facility is offline . In the case of a control tower , this means the airport either acts as a non-towered field or as a closed field ( depending on the nature of the emergency ) . If it is a TRACON , then the ARTCC will assume control of the TRACONs airpsace . If it is an ARTCC , that might present bigger problems as continuity of radio communications may be impacted and I 'm not sure exactly how this would be handled but assume it would be re-routes around the ARTCC . I 've been inbound to IAH when their tower decided to close ( I forget why ) , and the response was to put everyone inbound to IAH into holds and handle diverts when fuel became an issue .
Do n't chase the ball . Heck if you 're VFR/VMC , you should barely be glancing at the ball or any of your instruments and should have eyes outside . Remember flying a little uncoordinated alone is not going to force a spin . Stall + Yaw = Spin So how do we mitigate this during gusty approaches ? We fly a little bit faster . I like to use 1/2 the gust factor and add that to my final approach speed . I 'm not saying accept being uncoordinated , but when it 's gusty out you do n't chase airspeed , so why chase the ball ?
end question
start question
Is freezing of windows normal in airlines ?
Was it anything to be concerned No Should I have brought it to the notice of the airline crew ? Yes , but not because it is a safety issue . Tell them so they can deal with it to give the next passenger a nicer experience . What is happening is no different than a glass of ice water sitting on your kitchen counter . The warmer side of the glass ( the outside ) becomes cooler because of the cold on the inside and it transfers that coolness to the surrounding air . That surrounding air cools enough to cause the moisture it contained to condense into liquid that sticks to your glass . If the glass were cold enough , it would freeze that condensation . The window on the aircraft is that cold so the condensation freezes . There is a mechanism under the window to keep this from happening . It is a jar of <URL> that absorbs all moisture ( dries the air ) in the window area so that there is no moisture to condense in the first place . Often , there is a tiny bit still . As the desiccant absorbs moisture from the air , it retains it . So periodically , it gets saturated to the point it ca n't absorb anymore and the desiccant needs to be changed . Either the desiccant in your window needed to be changed or moist air is bypassing the desiccant on its way to the inside surface of the window . Normally there is a seal between the outside window and that thin plastic window you can touch and the only way for air to get in or out of that inter-window area is through the desiccant . Your window may have a broken seal allowing moist air to bypass the desiccant . Either way , it is a system designed only to keep the window from forming ice so the passengers can look out the window , it has no safety or structural consequences .
C-5 Galaxy was designed to military requirements that for cargo aircraft include : operating from unpaved runways ( I am not sure in case of C-5 , but probably yes ) operating from airfields without much support operating from short runways paradrop capability These basically imply a high-wing design so that engines are high ( to minimize risk of foreign object damage ) and the deck is lower for easier loading , front and rear cargo door with loading ramps so loading is possible without any ground infrastructure and some excess thrust for sufficient performance on short fields . However that design is less efficient . It has higher operating cost . The air force is willing to pay it , because it needs the capabilities it requested . But commercial operations do n't need those things , because it has enough well equipped airports to operate from . So the higher cost of operating an L-500 ( as civil version of C-5 would be called ) makes it uninteresting . B-747 only shares one design feature with C-5 , the raised cockpit that allows full-height cargo door in the nose , but otherwise it is optimized to minimize operating cost , making it great cargo plane for operations between airports . On a side note , there is some commercial demand for transporting heavy or large cargo to less equipped airports . These are currently covered by ex-soviet-military An-124 aircraft that look very similar to Galaxy , are a bit larger , are certainly able to land on unpaved runways and were simply available when Soviet Union collapsed .
Many airlines do in fact have inflight camera feeds for Cabin surveillance so I do not think the question is relevant to most major airlines anymore . For a specific example , Emirates Airline employs the Cabin Video Monitoring Systems ( CVMS ) across its fleet of Airbus A380 aircraft . These Cabin cameras can be accessed by Cockpit crew through the System Display or the Cabin crew through the FAP ( Flight Attendant Panel ) and for any abnormal situation such as a hijacking/hostage situation on ground , the CVMS can be accessed on a laptop via the GSP ( Ground Service Panel ) . Additionally , as mentioned above , they have landscape cameras installed for an external video feed but that is more of a feature for passengers . The advantages of a CVMS in a hijacking/hostage situation such as positioning , identity , body language and weapons of the hijackers plus general operational advantages such as issues during boarding/offloading and other emergency situations such as an evacuation are great and not to be discounted .
For a proper answer we first need to define what " safe enough " is . If you want a significant reduction in risk over current standards , improving the restraint <URL> . Your observation is absolutely correct : The lap belt is the minimum the airlines get away with , and you would be much better protected in some kinds of accident by a proper 5-point harness . But fitting the harness alone will not achieve much : To stay in place in a crash , all seats need to be reinforced , so they can tolerate the increased loads at the shoulder belt attachment points . This will add weight and cut into the profits of airlines , so it will only happen when it is mandated . Please read <URL> for more details . It concerns GA aircraft , but much applies to airliner seats as well . The better the restraints are , the more deceleration load can be survived . Note that the points in the <URL> are from tests with additional leg , chest and arm restraints . If all you have is a lap belt , you might probably be able to tolerate only half as many gs . The better alternative to a 5-point harness would be to <URL> . This would help most to reduce injuries and improve chances of survival in a crash landing . Now I have to contradict @FreeMan : While the brace position will put all the load on a small strip around a person 's hips and lets the arms flail forward , a properly secured torso can take 10g for a duration of more than a second and up to 40g momentarily without ripping the head off . See below the famous sequence of Dr. John Stapp in a ride on his rocket sled " <URL> " : <URL> Dr. John Stapp in a deceleration test ( picture <URL> ) He clearly had his head bobbing about , but even though he lost dental fillings and suffered hemorrhage in his eyes , the head stayed intact . In the end , all what the lap belt is really good for is to keep you in your seat with negative acceleration due to gusts . This is by far the most common situation when a restraint is needed . The classical brace position ( torso over legs , head down ) is impossible anyway in economy class due to the ever reducing seat pitch .
I think the policy is completely justified . An analogy : You would n't allow an unsafe and unapproved car onto a highway in Europe where it presents a unjust danger to everybody else . You have to remember that the European Union is a fairly compact bunch of nations : To get to Paris from Southeast Asia or Africa , you 're probably looking at overflying at least two or three other countries . Thus , a single flight will have wider implications and involve multiple nations . The policy keeps everybody somewhat happy that they have safe airlines in their airspace . It also keeps their own citizens off the airline in question . I do not think that it is a question of ' caring ' . If they do not feel that the airline can safely fly , they ban it . Note that a fair number of the EU blacklist are automatically banned by country if they have insufficient oversight . It 's also not a permanent ' thing ' or sentence . Garuda Indonesia was on the EASA blacklist for two years until they brushed up , and are now back flying into the EU . Perhaps it might even have been good , since it pushed the company to improve their standards ? Here is a recent quote on the Iraqi Airlines ban : ATW understands from unidentified sources that 600 non-EU airlines had applied for TCO authorization . Most had been granted with few problems , but a small number of airlines were subject to greater scrutiny because of their perceived high-risk status . <URL> While perhaps less prominent , I think the United States will quickly block any unsafe airline from coming in , although perhaps on a more case-by-case basis . I believe there are other hurdles , such as airport security requirements , that have to be settled to fly into the United States and can act as barriers . I believe the same applies for any other nation . Other countries say no as well , just perhaps not being as ' vocal ' : Some Thai-registered airlines earlier faced flight restrictions by Japan , South Korea and Indonesia , following an audit of Thailand 's air operations by the UN-based International Civil Aviation Organisation . In June the agency raised a red flag over aviation safety standards and gave the country until November to tackle the issue . Meanwhile , the US Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) last Friday gave Thailand 65 days to address shortcomings it had found . <URL>
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
How the Swiss Air pilots got paid would , of course , depend on Swiss Air policy . I suspect pay policies vary greatly between airlines and countries , but for what it 's worth below are the pay policies for the four airlines I worked for in the 1980s and 1990s . At all four I would have been credited with only the time from push back until the parking brake was set on return insofar as flight time was concerned , but as you will see that would n't have made any significant difference in my pay . commuter # 1 no union -- a straight salary but with an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it never did . commuter # 2 no union -- a straight salary regardless of the number of hours flown , but they never abused that . 747 freight carrier no union -- a straight salary plus an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it occasionally did . 747 passenger carrier in-house union -- flight time hourly pay with a guaranteed minimum . You always went substantially over the minimum . They tried to get you as close as possible to the regulatory max of 1000 hours a year . Additionally , they had a policy that whenever your duty time ( as opposed to flight time ) went over 16 consecutive hours , you got paid for each hour over that at a rate of 1.5 times your regular hourly flight time rate . Also , you were paid half your regular hourly flight rate while deadheading . Then , if you had less than 8 hours ( I might not be remembering that number correctly ) between assignments , your duty time continued . My first assignment for this airline was a 32-hour duty day . I operated from JFK to AMS ( Amsterdam ) , so my duty time started at show time , 2 hours before departure . At Amsterdam 5 hours on the ground then commercialling ( riding in the back on another airline ) to SIN ( Singapore ) and then to CGK ( Jakarta ) positioning for a Hajj flight . Crew scheduling regularly abused pilots , but nobody complained because you were being so well paid when they did abuse you . The breakdown for hours at the flight time rate for that trip was approximately : 7.5 hours operating time JFK-AMS 8 hours deadheading pay AMS-SIN-CGK ( half of 16 hours riding in the back ) 24 hours extended duty pay ( 32 hours duty time minus 16 hour threshold times 1.5 ) So , 39.5 pay hours at the regular new first officer rate of 55 per hour = 2,172.50 , which looked pretty good to me since I had come from a carrier than paid me a straight 4500 per month salary as a 747 captain . I ca n't remember all the flight time/duty time details , but back then at least the international rules were much less restrictive than the domestic rules . Also , back then it was common practice to do things like scheduling a flight for , say , 11:59 for regulatory purposes , when everyone knew it would go slightly over the 12-hour international rule of the time . It may be worth noting here , that the mind-set of the crew , at least the cockpit crew , is totally different from that of passengers . The passenger wants to get from point A to point B , whereas the crew is simply ' at work ' regardless of whether they go anyplace or not . Consequently , at least in my experience and opinion , delays are n't nearly as frustrating to crew as they are to passengers .
If an airline has an accident , the chances are you ( as the next set of passengers to board that plane ) will be the least of their concerns - if there 's an incident then it tends to be a case of all hands to action stations to deal with the media , emergency services , families of any potential victims , provide assistance where possible etc. . That said , they do have some procedures they attempt to follow . These vary a little from airline to airline . Most will make an attempt to contact you via text/email if they have it or via the GDS to your travel agent , depending on how far away you are from your departure day/time . It also depends whether you gave contact information to the carrier or your travel agent , whether your travel agent passed it on or , indeed , whether you used a travel agent at all . The next set of passengers rightly tends to be second priority after dealing with the incident , however . Often if you 're on the next flight , therefore , the communication will be a little slow and the first you 'll know about it will be when you arrive at the airport - also remember that there 's a good chance you 're already at the airport , or are on a connecting flight . If you get to the airport , you 'll likely be informed by the staff there who will attempt to get you onto another flight with the same company or another carrier . As an addition from the comment below , if you 're a family member etc who 's signed up to flight alerts from the airline in order to hear about delays/diversions etc ( some airlines provide this as a service to avoid inconvenience and avoid too much waiting traffic at the terminal ) , then you 'll likely be one of the first priorities . The system is normally set up to send automated or manually-triggered pre-written messages , but in an emergency will usually be used to send a manual message to relevant family members etc. . Obviously this only applies if you 've signed up to the service , and only usually applies to the airline 's own service : if you 've signed up with a third party flight tracking service , they likely have no more information than you do .
$ V_1 $ is takeoff decision speed . It is based upon : Runway length Temperature Reduced thrust takeoff Takeoff weight Takeoff flap setting If $ V_1 $ is higher than $ V_R $ , then ( as far as I am aware ) , $ V_1 $ will be adjusted to be the same as $ V_R $ . You have to make the decision to takeoff by the time you rotate , so it does not make much sense to have $ V_1 $ higher than $ V_R $ . $ V_2 $ is takeoff safety speed . During a one engine inop takeoff we would accelerate to and climb at this airspeed to our acceleration height ( a height we could level off at and be safe from obstacles while we further accelerate ) . We also referenced certain flap transitions on takeoff to $ V_2 $ ( e.g. $ V_2 +15 $ - flaps 0 ) To address the rest of the question , $ V_1 $ and $ V_2 $ are primarily used in large aircraft . In light twins you also need to be aware of $ V _ { MC } $ . $ V _ { MC } $ is the minimum controllable airspeed with an engine inop . In particular you do not want to be slower than this airspeed during climbout in case of engine failure .
I 'll answer for the US . As long as there 's no official slot program , airlines can schedule however much they want to an airport , beyond what it should be capable of handling . Now that does n't mean ATC lets a free-for all happen . Hopefully , various traffic management units are on it and aware of how much demand is scheduled and already airborne into the airport/region/area that there 's too much demand , and will implement various flow control programs to moderate the volume to what can be accepted into a specific sector ( Certain airways can get super busy and require these types of actions ) , or airport . These control programs will either slow aircraft farther out from their destination , hold , or give small to longer delays on the ground , depending on how over scheduled or limitations of weather at the destination . [ Begin edit poriton ] Since the other part of the question was n't there when I first answered , I 'll answer now . Slot controls vary heavily from airport to airport . In the US , LGA , LGB , DCA , SNA , and at times JFK are slot controlled , with a few others threatened to go to slots due to how many delays they impact the system ( SFO , EWR , and ORD ) . How each airport deals with the slot allocation is different due to how they got slot controls . DCA is controlled partly through congress , LGA and SNA are restricted due to noise controls . In the US , once an airline gets a slot , often times it 's considered transferable property , so airlines can sell them to each other if needed . Now if a slot is n't used and goes back to the airport , the airport can put it up for bid , or allow applications for it , again depending on how their program is structured . AT DCA , some slots are transferable , some require an act of congress to change or modify , and some can only be used for certain routes or types of cities .
The F-14 manual describes the ejection system as : The aircraft is equipped with an automatic electronically sequenced command escape system incorporating two Navy aircrew common ejection seat ( SJU-17 ( V ) 3/A ( pilot ) and SJU-17 ( V ) 4/A ( RIO ) ) rocket-assisted ejection seats . That means the seats are an integral part of the system . According to <URL> , the weight is 228 pounds ( 103 kg ) and it has a " maximum thrust [ of ] 4,800 pounds for 0.25 seconds " . A cockpit seat on a Boeing 737 weighs around 40 kg if we are to trust this <URL> , so we can say the addition of the ejection elements adds 63 kg . Of course a 737 cockpit seat is much heavier than a WWII non-existent seat ( the pilots <URL> their own cushions ) . This might be useful however if you want to compare a B-52 with and without ejection seats . Below is an image for that ejection system , and as I gather , that 's a very common ( average ) model found on many US aircraft . <URL> ( Click for larger size . )
In general , the pilots are required to have good visibility to execute any maneuvers during normal operation of the aircraft . According to <URL> , during non-precipitation conditions , Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any maneuvers within the operating limitations of the airplane , including taxiing takeoff , approach , and landing The FAA advisory Circular 25.773-1 Pilot Compartment View design considerations gives certain guidelines for ensuring pilot visibility . <URL> Pilot compartment view from FAA AC 25.773-1 Pilot Compartment View design considerations The figure shows a pilot compartment view for optimum collision avoidance when seated in the left ( port ) seat . For the starboard side , all left/right dimensions are reversed . Usually , the aircrafts offer better visibility compared to the guidelines . For example , the A330 's visibility ( from <URL> ) is given here . <URL> Image from <URL> The actual visibility of the pilots will vary according to the seat position For example , the following figure shows the variation in pilot visibility in Boeing 727 when seat position is adjusted . <URL> Image from Airplane Design - Layout Design of Cockpit , Fuselage , Wing and Empennage by Jan Roskam Of course , the pilots can see things which is normally not visible though the windows through cameras mounted on the outside , like on top of vertical tail in A380 .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Cool room in a cargo terminal . The rabbit arrived fine but there was some sort of mistake and he was locked inside a freezer overnight . Goods that are perishable and human remains awaiting transport , wait in the freezer before being loaded onto flights . Different rooms for cargo handling can be <URL> , they include : Cool rooms Freezer rooms Warm rooms ( for e.g. perishable flowers ) Dangerous goods rooms There are also specialized <URL> 's that come with refrigeration units . <URL> ( <URL> ) Temperature controlled ULD . [ Depending ] on the nature of the goods to be transported , [ ULD 's ] may have built-in refrigeration units .
All my quotes for this post comes from FAA Order <URL> , the Surface Weather Observing Guide . Visibility is defined as " Visibility is a measure of the horizontal opacity of the atmosphere at the point of observation and is expressed in terms of the horizontal distance at which a person should be able to see and identify specific objects . " All METARs report Prevailing Visibility , which is : " Prevailing visibility is the greatest visibility equaled or exceeded throughout at least half the horizon circle , which does not necessarily have to be continuous . This is the visibility that is considered representative of visibility conditions at the station . " Automated stations , generally report a max visibility of 10 SM . Now if you look at stations that are completely manual , i.e. KBJC ( when I worked there it was a completely manual station ) , we 'd report anywhere up to 70SM or higher visibility , due to our visibility markers . - RA can often be easily seen through , RA or RA + do become harder to see through , and as always , it can be dependant on where the - RA is , if it 's only in a tiny quadrant of the horizon circle , it can often be a greater visibility . [ Edit Post comment about RA ] : Sorry , used a few more abbreviations . SM = Statute Miles , which is like a regular mile that most people use in their daily lives . It 's depicted as SM , due to most other things in aviation being in Nautical Miles . - RA , RA , + RA , are the various descriptors for Rain . - RA means light rain , which if just using vis concerns is defined as , " From scattered drops that , regardless of duration , do not completely wet an exposed surface up to a condition where individual drops are easily seen . " RA , is Moderate Rain , defined as : " Individual drops are not clearly identifiable ; spray is observable just above pavements and other hard surfaces " and + RA is heavy Rain , " Rain seemingly falls in sheets ; individual drops are not identifiable ; heavy spray to height of several inches is observed over hard surfaces . " Also , METAR is the type of aviation weather report . METAR 's are the hourly/standard report , and then there 's SPECI 's which if certain changes occur in conditions , from Freezing Rain , to changes in visibility or cloud ceilings , to massive wind shifts , to thunderstorms , to other factors , can be produced outside of the hourly/regular report .
Refueling with passengers onboard is quite normal and is done according to the recommendations of regulatory bodies/manufacturers and operators . Refueling with some fuel types are not permitted , while others are . From <URL> : Refueling with wide cut gasoline type fuel ( JET B , JP4 or equivalent ) or when a mixture with these types of fuel might occur , is not permitted with passengers boarding , on board or disembarking . Refueling with Kerosene ( JET A , JET A1 JP8 , TS1 , RT , TH or equivalent , as approved by the approved Aircraft Flight Manual ) , is allowed when passengers are boarding , on board , or disembarking . Some precautions are required to be followed in case refueling is done with passengers on board . The announcement you heard is simply following that . From <URL> : ( a ) An operator must establish operational procedures for e/defuelling with passengers embarking , on board or disembarking o ensure the following precautions are taken : ( 1 ) One qualified person must remain at a specified location during fuelling operations with passengers n board . This qualified person must be capable of handling emergency procedures concerning fire protection and fire-fighting , handling communications and initiating and directing an evacuation ; ( 2 ) A two-way communication shall be established and shall remain available by the aeroplane 's inter-communication system or other suitable means between the ground crew supervising the refuelling and the qualified personnel on board the aeroplane ; ( 3 ) Crew , staff and passengers must be warned that re/defuelling will take place ; ( 4 ) Fasten eat Belts ' signs must be off ; ( 5 ) ' NO SMOKING ' signs must be on , together with interior lighting to enable emergency exits to be identified ; ( 6 ) Passengers must be instructed to unfasten their seat belts and refrain from smoking ; ( 7 ) Sufficient qualified personnel must e on board and be prepared for an immediate emergency evacuation ; ( 8 ) If the presence of fuel vapour is detected inside the aeroplane , or any other hazard arises during re/defuelling , fuelling must be stopped immediately ; ( 9 ) The ground area beneath the exits intended or emergency evacuation and slide deployment areas must be kept clear ; and ( 10 ) Provision is made for a safe and rapid evacuation . You 're right about the announcement and leaving seat belt open - it is to help in quick evacuation . The flight crew is just following the procedure .
I could not find a definite definition of congested area . As mentioned <URL> : [ ... ] neither the FAA nor the NTSB has ever provided [ ... ] a precise definition of [ ... ] a " congested area . " Rather , a " congested area " is determined on a case-by-case basis . According to the Board , " the determination must take into consideration all circumstances , not only the size of an area and the number of homes or structures , but , for example , whether the buildings are occupied or people are otherwise present , such as on roads . " The same is echoed <URL> : [ For the definition of congested area , ] FAA and the NTSB have opted for taking a " case-by-case " approach in determining how to apply certain terms . AOPA <URL> : Congested areas . " Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons , an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the aircraft . " The FAA does not define congested area in the FARs or in the Aeronautical Information Manual . Interpretations in low-flight enforcement cases are not consistent for purposes of drafting a precise definition . Such a determination is usually decided on a case-by-case basis , and in the cases that we 've seen , congested has been interpreted rather broadly . For example , a highway with moderate traffic was found to be " congested , " as was a seaside area where 200 to 300 persons were sitting on the beach or bathing in the water . The same can be seen <URL> , and <URL> , and <URL> .
In page 72 you 'll find the value of µ at standard sea-level temperature ...
The fuel consumption or fuel burn rate is dependent on the aircraft type , size , engine configuration , cruise altitude , temperature , thrust setting and other factors . In general : The larger the aircraft , the less economic do short flights become due to weight/size and fuel burn on takeoff/climb . Here are some values I found for the CRJ2 , the source may not be entire citable : Approximate total burn pounds / hour Taxi : 700 ( Both engines and APU ) Takeoff : 6000-7000 ( depending on temperature , elevation , reduced/full thrust , etc ) Climb : 6000-3500 ( reducing as as altitude increases ) Cruise : 2500-3000 ( depending on altitude/weight/etc ... subtract 500 for long range , add 500 for high speed ) Holding : 1800-2400 ( depending on altitude/speed ) Normal descent : 1500 Idle descent : 600 Approach : 2000 ( fully configured ) ( Source : <URL> - Author : Flyf15 ) You can also read the following related questions to understand how altitude affects fuel efficiency : <URL> <URL>
They do in fact exist , though they often use smaller helicopters . A Google search on the term " heli taxi " yields thousands of results , and while a lot are probably irrelevant , the first few pages give hundreds of operators around the world , ranging from companies ferrying passengers between airports and major cities to companies servicing oil platforms at sea , islands too small to have airfields , etc. .
They can operate with 0 passengers , but will most likely not generate any revenue ( unless cargo is carried to generate additional revenue ) . Revenue and profit on a passenger flight ( assuming no paid cargo ) will be based upon how many tickets were sold at which price , so the number of passengers required for any given flight to break even will be variable and can not be answered in a general way .
end question
start question
Which kind of identification and authentication is used to secure an airplane ?
Most smaller propeller planes have nothing . When you 're in you can fly away . This seems to be the same for those private jets and older Boeings . I do n't fly planes , but I 've seen that Airplane Repo program on Discovery , and they just get in and fly away . How this works with the newest planes - no idea .
I suppose it depends on what you mean by " land " -- For our purposes I 'll define landing as putting the aircraft on the ground and decelerating to taxi speed , while meeting the other requirements of a " good landing " ( shiny side up ; rubber side down ; aircraft , pilot , and passengers in reusable condition ) . How fast can I go ? Generally you want to put the wheels on the ground at ( or at least very close to ) the aircraft 's stall speed and then decelerate to a safe taxi speed . You can certainly force the wheels onto the ground at higher speeds , but you 're still an aerial vehicle at that point and you have to bleed off the excess speed to transition to a ground ( taxiing ) vehicle before you can leave the runway . As a general rule of thumb your final approach speed should be about 1.3 times stall speed for your selected landing configuration so you can get down to taxi speed reasonably quickly . Putting that into some kind of context , a normal approach speed ( with full flaps ) in the Piper Cherokee I fly is around ~ 65 knots . A no-flaps approach is ~ 75 knots . Looking a little deeper , you can fly the approach as fast as you want ( within reason ) as long as you 're comfortable doing that and confident in your ability to bleed off the extra speed with precision . At my home field I 've been chased down final by jets often enough that I know I can maintain 85 + knots until about a half-mile final , at which point I can reliably dump the extra speed , put the wheels down in the touchdown zone , and decelerate to taxi speed in time to make a " normal " turn-off . I also know that if it seems like I will need to carry more than about 85 knots by the half-mile point I 'm better off telling ATC I 'll go around and land after the faster traffic because I may not be able to safely decelerate and turn off the runway with enough room for the traffic behind me to land . Keeping your speed up is really only helpful if you do n't botch the landing . What 's the procedure for doing this ? The procedure is basically " Keep your speed up until short final " -- It 's something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily . If you elect to land without flaps the procedure is the same as the " no-flap landings " you should have done in training , and in most small aircraft that should be a non-event . Again , this is something you can practice with your CFI pretty easily , and it 's a technique you should be familiar with in case your flap controls ever fail . What are the consequences ? Well , the good part is you 'll be helping out ATC and the traffic behind you : if you can keep your speed up ATC will be better able to maintain separation between you and the faster aircraft behind you , instead of having to send them around or vector / re-sequence them for spacing . It 's also fun to do this kind of thing occasionally , and helps keep your skills sharp . The bad part is that any time you 're not flying a " normal " approach you 're accepting some additional level of risk . In this case you 're also touching down faster , which means more energy to dissipate ( hopefully through braking , but if something goes wrong you 'll be dissipating that energy through impact , and as dvnrrs pointed out the energy you need to get rid of is proportional to the square of your velocity so the number goes up fast ) . Remember that ultimately flying a fast final or touching down in an alternate ( faster ) configuration is a courtesy to ATC and the traffic you 're mixing with . If you 're comfortable doing it everyone will appreciate your help , but if you are n't comfortable with it just fly a normal approach and let ATC know you are <URL> to fly faster -- the worst thing ATC will do is ask you to go around and re-sequence you with more space next time .
You want to check the Activities box . The phrasing is a little weird , and it certainly does n't line up with the regs ( see <URL> ) , but that 's what you want : ( 2 ) Submitting a completed and signed application with the FAA and satisfactorily completing one of the following renewal requirements -- ( i ) A record of training students showing that , during the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 students for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of those students passed that test on the first attempt . ( ii ) A record showing that , within the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot , chief flight instructor , company check airman , or flight instructor in a part 121 or part 135 operation , or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots . [ ... ] So , best as I can tell , that means : § 61.197 ( 2 ) ( i ) is activity - 80 % pass rate on 5 + students in the preceding 24 calendar months . § 61.197 ( 2 ) ( ii ) is duties and responsibilities - serving in a position that involves standardization flights or stage checks . Disclaimer : unfortunately , all of the AOPA material on CFI renewal is designed to get you to buy their FIRC ( eyeroll ) , and the unhelpful <URL> says squat as well . I 'm having a hard time finding a reference that proves my interpretation , but I know it 's correct !
Yes it is possible , although it is kind of hard to prove it over the internet .1 When a teenager I lived under the approach path of Westover AFB . My friends and I had no difficulty at all distinguishing among these types by sound alone : Douglas DC-3 Douglas DC-7 Boeing 707 Douglas DC-8 Lockheed L-188 Electra Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation Convair B-36 Boeing B-47 Stratojet Boeing B-52 Stratofortress Convair F-102 Delta Dagger ( singly or flights of two or four ) Lockheed F-104 Starfighter ( singly or flights of two or four ) North American F-100 Super Sabre ( singly or flights of two or four ) We only looked up when some other type flew over . 1 . This line is an homage to kevin who said it first .
Short answer Aeronautical data ( fixes , waypoints , navaids , instrument procedures ) are delivered to aircraft operators and avionics manufacturers referenced to the WGS-84 ellipsoid . To make is simple the ellipsoid is the volume enclosed by the revolution of an ellipse which best approximates the shape of the Earth , generally in a given region only . WGS ellipsoid is a global one which approximates the whole Earth shape . <URL> FAA provides rules for designing procedures , and algorithms to use to compute various elements , including the distance between two fixes and their relative azimuths . This is described in <URL> The United States Standard for Area Navigation ( RNAV ) , Appendix 2 . TERPS Standard Formulas for Geodetic Calculations : 1.0 Purpose The ellipsoidal formulas contained in this document must be used in determining RNAV flight path ( GPS , RNP , WAAS , LAAS ) fixes , courses , and distance between fixes . Notes : Algorithms and methods are described for calculating geodetic locations ( latitudes and longitudes ) on the World Geodetic System of 1984 ( WGS-84 ) ellipsoid , resulting from intersections of geodesic and non-geodesic paths . These algorithms utilize existing distance and azimuth calculation methods to compute intersections and tangent points needed for area navigation procedure construction . The methods apply corrections to an initial spherical approximation until the error is less than the maximum allowable error , as specified by the user . [ ... ] 3.4 Direct and Inverse Algorithms . The Direct and Inverse cases utilize formulae from T. Vincenty 's , Survey Review XXIII , No. 176 , April 1975 : Direct and Inverse Solutions of Geodesics on the Ellipsoid with Application of Nested Equations . FMS use <URL> to compute distances and angles , in order to match aeronautical data . A visible consequence is that , except for meridians and equator , prlongating a geodesic on an ellipsoid does n't draw a closed curve , as if it were a great circle : <URL> Detailed answer : Need for WGS-84 New modes of navigation have emerged with a significantly better accuracy than using VOR-DME and inertial : RNAV ( area navigation ) generally uses GNSS ( global navigation satellite system , one GNSS being the US GPS ) , RNP ( required navigation performance ) , and more generally performance-based navigation ( PBN ) . At the same time these new direct modes of navigation ( compared to a navaid-to-navaid paths ) can define paths extending to thousands of NM , and commonly crossing different geodetic reference systems where latitude , longitude , height and vertical can have significantly different values . As an illustration , the measure of " height " used to be referenced to local MSL ( mean sea level ) : <URL> ( <URL> ) But a GPS receiver , which is now the main instrument to locate a point , can only provide the height above an ellipsoidal simplified Earth model . Latest receivers also provide the height above the simplified sea level model ( <URL> ) , but only as the result of a transformation of the ellipsoidal height , etc. . <URL> ( <URL> ) As visible above , the direction of the local vertical is impacted by the transformation , creating another problem for airborne vehicles navigation . This can <URL> with differences for the same point up to 100m depending on the reference used : For these reasons , it appeared very early that all elements involved in mapping , navigation and ATC must use the same datum , in all countries . ICAO has selected WGS-84 . <URL> : The Council [ ... ] on 28 February 1994 , adopted Amendment 28 to Annex 15 , introducing the provisions concerning the promulgation of WGS-84-related geographical coordinates . [ ... ] WGS-84 on <URL> : The WGS 84 datum surface is an oblate spheroid ( ellipsoid ) with major ( equatorial ) radius a = 6378137 m at the equator and flattening f = 1/298 .257223563 . The polar semi-minor axis b then equals a times ( 1 − f ) , or 6356752.3142 m. Current country compliance with ICAO selected datum : See <URL> . Aeronautical databases FMS uses aeronautical data ( fixes , procedures ) in the <URL> format , where legs are WGS-84 paths . <URL> Processing of aeronautical data I 've had difficulty to get the exact authoritative document making mandatory the use of ellipsoid geometry in a FMS , however , from FAA <URL> related to RNP , FMS are part of the so called GPN means which are referenced to WGS-84 : Geographic Positioning Navigation ( GPN ) . Navigation based on geodetic calculation of geographic position referenced to the WGS-84 ellipsoid . Global positioning system ( GPS ) , wide area augentation system ( WAAS ) , local area augmentation system ( LAAS ) , flight management system ( FMS ) , RNP , and area navigation ( RNAV ) are examples of GPN . When calculating distances between fixes , or angles , a FMS computes geodesics which are shortest paths between fixes . On a sphere this would be a great circle . On an ellipsoid this has <URL> , Vincenty 's formulas are one of
You are absolutely correct , <URL> . But tradition and a subjective feeling of being treated better means that people will prefer to be seated facing forward . Some even claim that they develop motion sickness when sitting backwards . This can indeed be the case for some people in trains with their big windows , but much less so in aircraft . Just note which seats will be occupied last in a train with lounge/mixed seating . In order to cram the highest number of passengers into their planes , the airlines would need to convert all seats to the backward orientation , and you can be sure there will be some passengers who will complain . If passenger safety would be important to them , airlines could already use better seatbelts , like the 5-point-harnesses used in gliders and aerobatics planes , but they all use the minimum lap belt which is mandated and nothing more . Convenience and cost always win over safety . Now I need to mention two caveats : If passengers should be seated backwards , the industry needs to develop new seats . It will not be helpful to turn existing seats around - they would collapse at much lower loads than what a backward-sitting human can sustain . However , to fully support these higher loads , seats will be more heavy and possibly even the floor structure needs to be beefed up . Backward-facing seating will only help in the fraction of cases where deceleration loads are too high for a forward-facing person , but low enough to make the crash survivable . If the plane flies into a mountain or ditches and sinks before people get out , the better seating will not help . Some military transports have backward-facing seats . In some crashes , the survivability rate was seven times higher in those than in forward-facing seats . Early air travel also used mixed seating , e.g. on the Zeppelins or the <URL> . One airline to use mixed seating was Southwest Airlines with their <URL> , and business jets have mixed seating as standard . Thanks to @reirab for pointing out that United Business class also has some backward-facing seats . Cabin of the Do-X . No seatbelts , seats not bolted to the floor . These were the days ... Cabin of the Dassault Falcon 7X business jet .
Two things are important here : It is about a glider , so no fuel is consumed , and the mass is constant over time . The angle of attack is constant . This means also that the lift and drag coefficients are constant . If the mass and the lift coefficient are constant , and we assume a constant load factor ( implied by the description ) , the dynamic pressure is also constant , and the airspeed changes with the square root of air density . implies that the altitude decreases , so the indicated speed will be constant , but the true speed will decrease . Unfortunately , the condition e ) is not precise enough to make this distinction . e ) could be correct or not , depending on the definition of V. I would suggest that also c ) could be a correct answer : If the angle of attack and the mass are constant , so should be the drag coefficient . However , gliding down also implies that the <URL> changes because true speed decreases and temperature increases over the glide . Strictly speaking , this would also mean a very slowly changing drag coefficient . Answers b ) and d ) are false and I agree with your reasoning .
Let 's do some quick math . Air has a density of about 1.3 g/L and hydrogen has a density of about 0.09 g/L . The best case for lifting force would be storing the hydrogen at the same pressure as the surrounding air . This means that every L of hydrogen can displace 1.21 g of air , reducing the density of the aircraft . The amount of air displaced by the aircraft ( and therefore the <URL> ) would not change , but the density of the aircraft in that space would decrease . This would decrease the lift needed , but let 's see by how much . The greatest amount of free volume in an aircraft ( that is n't part of the pressurized section of the fuselage ) is the fuel tanks . An A380 has a fuel capacity of about 323,000 L . If we consider filling half of that with hydrogen , this would result in a total reduction of about 190 kg . An A380 has a max takeoff weight of 575,000 kg . This change would help but would be very small compared to the total lift needed . As David Richerby points out , <URL> would need to be pressurized ( if not liquified ) to fit enough onboard . This would increase the density above that of any displaced air , which would instead add weight to the aircraft . Perhaps the hydrogen could be produced instead of stored . Newer aircraft do have something called an <URL> , or onboard inert gas generating system . This system generates nitrogen which is used to fill the space in fuel tanks after the fuel is used . Being an inert gas , nitrogen can lower the amount of oxygen in the space below what would be required for ignition of the fuel vapors . However , this system splits nitrogen out of air , considering that our atmosphere is mostly nitrogen . Hydrogen would have to come from somewhere else , usually water , which would add more weight . Another problem with hydrogen is that when added to air <URL> , which would make the situation even worse . Considering the minor benefit , this would not be a system worth installing on an airliner . Regarding the feasibility of a hydrogen powered aircraft , <URL> and decided that this is not a good source of power for an aircraft . <URL> to store even liquid hydrogen would be too much for the aircraft to be very useful .
Traditionally , it was almost only movie projectors in the cabin , since Cathode Ray Tubes ( CRT ) were too bulky and impractical to fit . It was also very expensive . I think only with the arrival of LCD displays seatback displays that we know now were made possible . As for cockpit displays , the CRTs were widely used until LCDs were introduced and offered better performance . You can compare the 737 Classic with retrofitted CRT displays with those of the 737 Next Generation . Compare the 747-400 to the 747-8 which had LCD in place of CRT . I ca n't find pictures , but have been told that the old CRT modules were huge , very deep ( which you ca n't see ) and heavy , compare to the thin panel that now is available . You can still backwards order CRT for aircraft . I was flying with one airline that had done on a very new A320 to maintain commonality with the rest of the fleet . The pilots did n't appreciate it though , since it was bad for the eyes , needed to be dimmed and had ( I believe ) inferior resolution . Page 9 of <URL> gives some details on the display type tradeoff .
External cameras for diagnosing aircraft issues are not used on any current aircraft . As mentioned in another <URL> and <URL> , some aircraft do have external cameras , but these are more for maneuvering on the ground . One reason for this is that cheap , high definition cameras that can stream directly to a monitor in the cockpit are a fairly recent invention . Previously , such an addition would have been fairly heavy and expensive to add to an aircraft . As mentioned , some newer aircraft that have digital cockpit displays do have external cameras for other purposes . However , even in aircraft with cameras , they are generally not used for diagnosing issues . A lot of aircraft issues , especially with engines , are not readily visible from the outside . Internally placed sensors are still much better at detecting issues . Landing gear in particular may appear to be extended but not locked properly . Pilots are more concerned with how functional something is . Modern aircraft are equipped with hundreds of sensors and these are designed to give the pilots all the information they need about the functionality of the aircraft . These sensors are much more simple and precise than a camera . External cameras may give a misleading picture of the aircraft 's state , and decisions lean towards an abundance of caution . Unless there is some extremely obvious discrepancy , it 's unlikely that a camera will be trusted over the sensors . Of course there are still incidents such as fuel leaks and fires that external cameras would help to identify . However , the aircraft sensors should be able to detect these issues once they are serious enough . Pilots also get information from passengers/crew in the cabin , and from external observers in other aircraft or air traffic control . Cameras are also limited in where they can be placed to provide a good view of things , and how well they will perform at night or in bad weather . There may be a general case for cameras being helpful in identifying issues , but these situations are rare enough that is is hard to justify the expense . If something is enough of a risk that you need to point a camera at it , you 're better off just fixing it so it 's less of a risk .
Yes , there is an upper limit , but that upper limit might change with technological innovation . An airplane flies because of the lift coefficient $ L = \ frac12 \ rho v ^ 2 A C_L $ , with $ v $ the airspeed , which is a combination of the speed of the plane and the wind speed , $ \ rho \ approx 1 \ , \ text { kg m } ^ { -3 } $ at a theoretical mimimum of 5 km height ( remember that most planes reach 10 km , but I took this a little more extreme to show an upper limit ) , $ A$ the area , and $ C_L $ an coefficent with a typical value less than 2 , that might change with technological innovation . So the only factors we can influence are $ v $ and $ A$ . However , if we increase $ A$ , the mass $ m $ increases faster than the area $ A$ because there is more material needed to avoid the plane form breaking under the huge forces . Increasing $ A$ quadratically gives more than a quadratically in $ m $ , and hence in the needed $ L$ . If we increase $ v $ , we need more fuel . The amount of fuel per distance unit increases linearily in $ v $ , because it increases quadratically per unit of time in $ v $ . Hence $ L$ increases quadratically where $ m $ only increases linearily . This means that we might do something with increasing $ v $ . That means that airplanes have to go faster before liftoff , which will need drastically longer takeoff lanes . Note that we ca n't keep increasing $ v $ because we ca n't lose control . In summary , things we can improve are $ v $ , the speed , $ C_L $ , with technological innovations and $ \ rho $ by lowering flying height . However , it is not practical .
There is actually a simple answer , but it probably is n't exactly what you are looking for : Refer all questions about what is allowed to your specific airline . Each airline has to come up with their own list of allowable electronic devices , and submit that list to the FAA with appropriate documentation in order to gain approval to allow passengers to use them during flight . Some airlines allow almost everything as long as it can be put into a non transmitting mode ( airplane mode ) , while some still require ALL electronic devices to be completely powered down at all points during the flight . Because of this , every airline is a little different and you are required to follow their rules while on their flights . The GPS receiver would not cause problems , but this does n't mean that you are necessarily allowed to use it , and there are other things in your phone that could cause a problem though . In general , no electronic device that has a transmit function may be used because of possible interference though , unless specifically approved .
Two things : <URL> . This can be alleviated by carefully touching down , but you never know what exactly will happen in the next landing , so better do n't count on it to be smooth Deceleration distance : The higher mass requires a higher approach and touch down speed ( higher by the square root of the mass ratio between your actual mass and the maximum certified landing mass ) . Now you have more mass and more speed , but the landing strip and the airliner 's brakes are still the same . The risk is that you overshoot the runway with an airplane full of fuel or that you overheat the brakes ( which will result in their failure , and again an overshoot ) . Since the kinetic energy is proportional to mass times speed squared , the energy which needs to be absorbed by the brake goes up with the square of the mass increase . If the selected runway for your overweight landing is long enough and the weather is calm ( so a smooth landing is easier ) , an overweight landing is not such a problem . Now let 's look at the 777-300ER in detail . I use the figures from <URL> , because the <URL> is trying much harder to hide the relevant data . The MTOW ( maximum take-off weight , which is actually a mass ) is 351,534 kg , and the maximum landing weight is 251,290 kg , about 100 tons less . Now let 's assume that <URL> and returning to the airfield uses 5 tons of fuel , so the mass ratio is 1.379 . Therefore , the approach speed has to be 17.4 % higher and the total kinetic energy at touchdown is higher by a factor of 1.9 compared to the case at maximum allowable landing weight . If we now assume that speed is reduced linearly during the landing run and that the wheel brakes will just absorb as much energy over time as in the case at maximum landing weight , the deceleration needs to be lower by the mass ratio , so the aircraft decelerates with only 72.5 % of the deceleration at maximum landing weight . To shed its kinetic energy , the landing run will take longer by the increase in kinetic energy , i.e. 1.9 . Since the average speed is also higher by 17.4 % , the landing distance will be higher by a factor of 2.233 or 223 % of the landing distance at maximum landing weight . This neglects that the heating of the brakes is an instationary process , so you can not simply brake with the same intensity for more than twice the time they were designed for . But this little estimation should illuminate what impact a higher landing mass has on the energy and distance involved .
You did n't say which country you 're asking about , but in the US it 's legal . Your definition of service ceiling <URL> , and there 's no regulation that I know of that requires you remain below it . The only clear case I can think of would be if the POH says that the service ceiling is an actual limitation and you should n't operate above it . Exceeding limitations in the POH is a violation of <URL> : Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards The <URL> requires you to report to ATC if you ca n't maintain a 500ft/min climb rate , so I suppose that not doing that could get you in trouble somehow . But there 's no actual regulation , as far as I can see . There are other , contrived scenarios that you could invent . If exceeding the service ceiling would require specific equipment or training that you do n't have , then you could be in violation of various regulations , but that is n't because of the service ceiling itself . And finally , there 's the catch-all <URL> : No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . If you do operate above the service ceiling and something goes wrong , then the FAA could bust you on that . Trying to get over mountains at or close to your service ceiling could be an example .
I understand that the aircraft owner had sought for some time to donate the aircraft . I would presume that he had come to a time in life where he was , or felt he was , no longer able to fly the aircraft , and so was seeking to rid himself of what may have become a burden ( hangar fees , etc. ) . To quote liberally from the builder/destroyer 's daughter who created and uploaded the YouTube video ( this is quoted from what she wrote in the video description ) : It took him two years to make this decision about his plane . He did actually try to donate it to a couple of aviation schools in the area and the schools politely refused the offer . He also tried to donate to a local museum and was also refused . He knew when he built the plane he might face this decision one day , but he hoped some of the laws would have changed by that time . [ ... ] Mr. Ron Rapp , author of the article " A Tragic Pile of Twisted Metal " and noted blogger on his website The House of Rapp. , highlights many reasons my Dad made this decision among others . A couple months before my dad made his final decision , a local fellow pilot was named in a lawsuit because he sold the plane he built to a man that later crashed and killed himself in the plane . The spouse of the buyer filed the suit and also named other companies who made parts used to build the plane . Many have commented that he should have used a limited liability entity , such as a LLC or a corporation to sell the plane . However , because the plane was not , at the time of manufacturing , owned in a properly capitalized limited liability entity with a legitimate business purpose and was , in fact , used purely for personal reason , courts would in almost all cases " pierce the corporate veil . " Therefore , this does not offer adequate ( or any ) protection . I do n't think I can add a whole lot to that . Apparently , he had decided that he was unwilling to take on the liability of letting someone else fly what he had built . In the absence of a party interested in the aircraft for anything other than flight , he chose to destroy it .
Actually , for all but very long haul flights , airline aircraft only require two pilots , a Captain and a First Officer . For those long haul flights that exceed the duty time in a pilot seat , a relief pilot is also carried . Older aircraft often also had a flight engineer . Technically speaking the f.e. was n't usually required to be a pilot , but he was a very necessary crew member . You could say that airlines became more efficient crew-wise when they moved from 3-man cockpit crews to 2-man cockpit crews . For example , the 747-100/200 series uses 3-man crews , but the 747-400 uses 2-man crews . The change was made possible by using automation and instrumentation that was n't available when the first 747 models came out . Indirectly the increase in engine reliability also helped . If you lost an engine in an 3-man crew 747 , the typical manner of handling the loss was to have the first officer fly the airplane while the captain and the f.e. worked the problem . To illustrate the increase in automation , the 747-100/200 series had , typically , seven or nine fuel tanks , and there was a fuel burn schedule that had to be followed to keep the structural stresses and balances between different levels of the tanks within limits . The f.e. took care of that , doing it manually by throwing switches on his panel . The 747-400 and follow on models do that automatically by computer . Basically the number in the cockpit crew is determined by safety . There 's the basic consideration that if you had only one pilot , and that pilot died or otherwise was disabled , that might well be catastrophic . Beyond that , though , there 's the matter of what all has to be done and for how long . Pilots make mistakes , and the longer they 've on duty , the more mistakes they make . And if an emergency occurs , the work load can get very high . You ca n't reasonably compare an aircraft to a car for at least two reasons . First , a car is moving in only two dimensions , an aircraft in three . Second , a car can stop moving , an aircraft ca n't ; it has to keep moving . Let 's say your car loses power . Usually that wo n't result in anything more than inconvenience . If your aircraft loses power , you 've got a much more serious problem . Most airline aircraft have at least two engines . Losing one is n't going cause a crash in most two engine aircraft , losing all power will .
By regulation , a " weight &amp; balance " must be computed before departure to ensure that the weight is within the weight limits for a number of different conditions and that the weight is distributed such that the c.g. ( center of gravity ) of the airplane is also within the longitudinal c.g. limits for those conditions . That c.g. is typically computed assuming the the passengers are in the seats they have been assigned . If the passengers are seated elsewhere , the computed c.g. is not accurate . In other words , the pilots would n't know where the c.g. is or whether it is even within limits . The takeoff trim setting is affected by the c.g. . If the pilots set the trim according to the computed value , and the c.g. is considerably aft of that , on liftoff the nose is going to want to pitch up more than the pilots expect . If the c.g. is so far aft that it is well beyond the aft limits , serious control problems can occur . If the c.g. is far forward of what the pilots are expecting , they 're going to have to pull harder on the elevator control than expected to get the aircraft to rotate , and that is going to extend the takeoff roll . Different makes of aircraft vary widely in c.g. limitations and how tolerant they are limit wise of passenger placement in aircraft that are not full . For example , when I was flying Metroliners , if you had few passengers , you had to ask them to sit toward the rear . I once got a strange look from Rosey Grier ( Google him if you do n't know who he is ) when I had to ask him to sit in the back of the aircraft . Once you 're in the air , the movement of passengers is of lesser concern balance wise . You 're at speed , the elevator is fully effective , and the pilots or the autopilot keep the airplane in trim . In other words , the trim is what it is rather than a computed value that might not reflect reality . Also , on large aircraft , once you 're in the air in level flight and if you 're so inclined , you can work out your weight by using your fuel flow , pressure altitude , and airspeed . Then with the weight and your trim setting you can come up with your c.g. I would guess that most of the glass cockpit aircraft probably do that for you automatically if you request it . My experience stopped with the 747-200 , which is now a near relic . The c.g. limits are defined conservatively , and usually in terms of the percent of the mean aerodynamic chord . It 's not a case of that if the aft c.g. limit is 33 % mac ( a common value for 747s ) and you 're at 33.1 % you 're going to crash . It 's just a case that you 're beginning to move into an area that gives you a lesser degree of controllability than is deemed necessary for some situations . Continued movement to an extreme value would eventually make the aircraft uncontrollable . Insofar as the bags-left-behind part of the question , I do n't think their absence would cause a problem . If the computed c.g. including the bags was right right up against the aft c.g. limit , their absence could conceivably put the c.g. beyond the aft limit . The pilots might notice it , but handling it would not be difficult . However , aircraft are typically not loaded such that their c.g. is close to a limit . A preferred aiming point for 747-100s , -200 s , and -400 s is 26.6 % mac . Just for the heck of it , I did a weight &amp; balance for a 747-400 , loading it so that the takeoff c.g. was 26.6 % mac . I then took 5000 lbs ( 100 bags x 50 lbs each ) out of the most forward baggage area . This changed the the c.g. to 28.0 % mac , still within limits . On the 747 , a given weight of baggage misplacement has less potential to affect the c.g. than the same weight of passenger misplacement because the passenger seating extends over 20 feet forward of the most forward baggage compartment and over 17 feet aft of the most aft baggage compartment .
Greg covered this very well <URL> . The " miss by a surprising distance " bit is especially important here in the context of FAR 91.15 -- you would have to have a VERY large-scale paintball match for this to be viable , and some specific rules of engagement for the aircraft ( always firing " into " the arena area as you do n't want to miss and send a paintball into someone 's car or kitchen window as that would get some distinctly unfriendly attention from the FAA , and probably the local constabulary ) . Operationally , if we 're doing this with an airplane high-wing aircraft would obviously be the order of the day ( Cessna 152 ) , with a pilot ( whose sole job is to fly the airplane ) and a gunner/bombardier ( who is responsible for hitting targets on the ground ) . You really do n't want the pilot distracted by the game . Your weapons guy is going to have to be able to account for the aircraft 's speed and altitude in targeting ( which is pretty hard with an adjusted scope/bomb sight - doing it without one is going to be tough ) . As for shooting back at the plane , if we 're talking about a " regular " airplane ( something manned , like a Cessna 152 ) I would advise against allowing players to target the plane . At safe operating altitudes they 're unlikely to hit the plane , but if they do aircraft skin is very thin &amp; dent repair is very expensive : If someone is lucky enough to score a hit it could be a costly " death " . Now , as a paintball player myself I will tell you that I find the idea of death from above when I ca n't shoot back at the aircraft to be rather unsporting ! What I would suggest instead is to deploy <URL> . These can be had pretty cheaply and with some basic electronics skills they can be modified to carry/drop paint grenades ( think Squadbusters ) on your enemy . If you want to get really fancy add a GoPro or some other remote camera to help with targeting , or add a paintball gun to the thing <URL> . The FAA 's rules for " unmanned aerial systems " are still being written , but if you keep to the general rules for model aircraft ( below 400 feet , and not charging anyone money for the drone 's services ) I think you 'll be OK ( when the final rules come out you 'll have to review your drone for compliance ) . As a bonus if the drone is n't too large and you have an indoor arena with liberally-minded management you may even be able to use your drone during indoor games . ( Kill rules for the drone and its operator are left as an exercise for the players . )
It is usually required to file a flight plan for international flights ( with very few exceptions ) , and I 'll assume this is the case for Canada/US as well , but I 'm not 100 % sure of this . In this case you have two options You close your flight plan and let ATC or FSS know where you are , they 'll note it 's an international flight that landed somewhere without customs , and you 're likely to end up in trouble . You do n't close your flight plan , and you 'll trigger a search-and-rescue operation as you 'll eventually be overdue , drawing attention to yourself , and you 're equally likely to end up in trouble . Not to mention that you 'll probably be liable for the cost of the search-and-rescue . You could of course file a plan with a drastically reduced TAS , do a very quick stop , and arrive at the original destination within the grace period . I do n't know if that will trigger any surveillance systems though . If you do n't file a flight plan and cross the border anyway , I 'm guessing that you will indeed trigger some alerts though .
There are several reasons , mostly historical , or theories behind this : After World War I , most airplanes had rotary engines with left turning tendencies because it followed the torque of the engine . Therefore , turning left was easier than turning right . Because of this , pilots considered left turns as more convenient maneuver , and thus more experienced pilot started sitting on the left . Since the early days of aviation , the fact that pilot was sitting on the left , they keep the airplane on the right side along the airway . At that time , pilots often navigate visually following roads and railways . Opposite traffic following the same path then pass each other on the left . Because captain sits on the left , left-hand traffic patterns are more common . In order to avoid a head-on collision , each airplane must turn right . Since the captain sits on the left , they will have an unrestricted view of the other airplane , and therefore can assess the situation easily . In modern times , almost all airplanes ( other than single-pilot airplanes or where one pilot sits behind the other ) , both seats have full controls to fly the airplane . Regulations do not specify which seat should be occupied by the pilot-in-command ( PIC ) or the Pilot Flying ( PF ) . Please note that <URL> . Bibliography : <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What compensation a passenger has to pay an airline if a person goes unruly during flight ?
Unruly passengers can face the followings : Monetary fines Prison sentences Ban on that airline <URL> : In the United States , passengers who disrupt the duties of a flight crew member can face fines up to $ 25,000 and sometimes lengthy prison sentences . IATA has a policy for these passengers mentioned <URL> , and more information is <URL> . ICAO has a <URL> on unruly passenger prevention and management . They have adopted a <URL> to amend <URL> .
This headline made the news this week : <URL> : The passenger , Ann Kristin Balto from Tromsø , noticed the highly disconcerting leak as the plane was taxiing to the runway -- before it actually took off . After alerting the stewardess , the flight was immediately cancelled . So fuel leaks are one thing you could look out for !
The distribution of how pilots get to the majors is bimodal . If you can get a military pilot slot and give 4-10 years to the USAF , you can then get an FAA ATP and start interviewing at whatever majors are hiring and have your ex-mil buddies on the hiring board . Great way to get in at FedEx or UPS . This costs a few grand for your ATP but that 's about it . If you ca n't get a military slot , getting up to the point you can instruct from nothing can vary wildly in cost . The accelerated flight training programs will do this for around $ 70,000 . Next you instruct until you hit 135 mins and do either that or instructing . At this point you should n't be paying for time anymore . When you get on at a regional you 'll sit right seat for a few to many years then you 'll upgrade . After about 1.5-2 years in the left seat you 'll have the bare minimums to apply at a major .
The flight director is related to the autopilot system . It displays a guide on the artificial horizon , which shows the attitude of the airplane , but does nothing to control the plane . The guide represents a reference of an airplane attitude that will follow the parameters set for the autopilot . The pilot can manually fly the plane directly where the flight director indicates , and by doing so the plane will follow the parameters set for the autopilot . If the autopilot is engaged , autopilot flies the plane to follow the flight director . The flight director serves as a visual indication of where the autopilot wants the plane to go . Although a flight director typically accompanies an autopilot system , some aircraft have a flight director without an autopilot . The procedure to engage them is to first turn on the flight director , which will show where the autopilot wants the plane to be , and then to engage the autopilot , which will then automatically fly the plane . This is what the autopilot controls can look like . Here is the Boeing flight director , visible as the crossed magenta lines in the center of the screen .
Here are a couple of examples from two studies that have a lot more detail and background information on pilot incapacitation in general . From <URL> : After a normal touchdown , the first officer became unconscious at the flight controls and the aircraft began to veer to the right of the centreline . The captain took control of the aircraft to return to the centreline and completed the landing From <URL> : A 45-year-old B-737 first officer experiencing an alcohol withdrawal seizure suddenly screamed , extended his arms up rigidly , pushed full right rudder , and slumped over the yoke during an approach . The aircraft descended to 1,000 feet above ground level in an uncoordinated turn to 25 degrees angle of bank before flight attendants could pull the first officer off the controls , allowing the captain to recover the airplane
At that point it was indeed the flaps extending in preparation of takeoff ( you can see them moving through the rain ) . You would typically also be able to hear the cargo doors closing ( before the plane starts taxiing ) and the engines ramping up as you start to take off ( <URL> in the same video ) .
A lot of this has to do with whether or not you 're talking to ATC . If you 're talking to ATC and your Mode C disappears or goes insane they 'll ask you to report your altitude ( and if your Mode C altitude reporting is wildly off they 'll probably tell you something like " Stop altitude squawk - altitude differs by 500 feet " . This is your cue to take the plane to an avionics shop and have the system checked/serviced , and not to attempt to enter B or C airspace , or fly above 10,000 MSL , until its fixed . In most cases ATC will continue to work you in the system until you are clear of the Mode C veil ( possibly expediting your exit if having no altitude readout on your target is messing up their day ) because it 's better to be talking to you than not . If you 're not talking to ATC things get a bit more complex : If your Mode C altitude readout is missing ATC will generally report you as " traffic , altitude unknown " to other aircraft and apply lateral separation exclusively ( nobody is allowed within the minimum lateral separation distance of your target unless they have you in sight and can maintain visual separation ) . If/When other pilots spot you ATC will usually ask them for your type and altitude so they have some idea of who you are and what you 're doing . If your encoder or transponder is malfunctioning and reporting an incorrect altitude that 's substantially more dangerous : ATC has no way of verifying your altitude other than asking you ( or another pilot ) , so they 'll be maintaining separation based on an incorrect altitude . This is why even VFR aircraft equipped with Mode C need an encoder check . In this case ATC will find out about a malfunction when you 're called as traffic to someone and they respond with " Is that my traffic above/below me ? "
Ah that 's a good question indeed . You asked How to reduce altitude in a passenger jet Normally most of the passenger jets have <URL> They are effective and can be <URL> . Now what happens in case you do n't have spoilers for any reason . I was discussing the subject with a pilot many years ago and he told me the trick you mentioned : you apply rudder to one direction ( I assume opposite to the engine rotation to avoid unpleasant surprises ) . That increases dramatically the forward surface of the plane against the relative air flow . That results in increased drag and thus speed loss . But yaw causes roll ( and vice versa ) . Also the wing of the side you are yawing to , has less lift because it is shaded from the forebody of the plane . This is where the aileron is needed . You need aileron to maintain lateral stability and prevent the aircraft from rolling . See the image bellow . The orange lines denote the area of increased drag by the fuselage . The green area is the " shaded " area of decreased lift of the wing . <URL> Top view from <URL> . Derivative work by me . According to that pilot , this is more effective than spoilers . But there is a trap : You need to be careful not to yaw the plane too much because the shaded wing will loose too much of its lift and will result in capsizing the plane . EDIT : Finally , you mentioned emergency . There are different types of emergencies . Pressurization is an emergency situation but does not affect aircraft control ( at least not directly ) . Hydraulics problems or engine loss is an emergency as well . But that will affect the way you will handle the aircraft . Here I can not help you . A trained pilot perhaps can answer , though I believe that the answers will vary depending on each planes flight manual .
In order for a spin to develop , you need two things from the airplane : it must be stalled it must be yawing . Since the airplane is not yawing while in a slip ( it is actually flying straight ahead , although uncoordinated ) , the airplane simply wo n't spin . Instead , when the stall occurs the higher wing ( which has the higher angle of attack ) will stall first , the wing will drop , and the wings will tend level . That being said , it is still a stall and can be dangerous at low altitudes . It can also turn into a spin if you leave the rudder applied as the wings level and you come out of the slip ( and into a skid ) . The best protection for all of this is to watch your airspeed and angle of attack to make sure that you always have sufficient airspeed so that you never stall in the first place . Additional Information Since this has generated some debate , here is additional information : Spin According to <URL> ( emphasis added by me ) : Spins can be entered intentionally or unintentionally , from any flight attitude and from practically any airspeed -- all that is required is sufficient yaw rate while an aircraft is stalled . Yaw So this brings us to <URL> : The yaw axis is defined to be perpendicular to the body of the wings with its origin at the center of gravity and directed towards the bottom of the aircraft . A yaw motion is a movement of the nose of the aircraft from side to side . Skid <URL> actually covers this exact scenario : The skid is more dangerous than the slip if the airplane is close to a stall . In the slip , the raised wing -- the left one if the airplane is turning to the right -- will stall before the lowered one , and the airplane will reduce the bank angle , which prevents the stall . In the skid , the lowered wing will stall before the raised one , and the airplane will tighten the turn , and the stall can develop to a spin . Slip <URL> says : A slip is an aerodynamic state where an aircraft is moving somewhat sideways as well as forward relative to the oncoming airflow or relative wind . In other words , for a conventional aircraft , the nose will be pointing in the opposite direction to the bank of the wing ( s ) . The aircraft is not in coordinated flight and therefore is flying inefficiently . Note that the aircraft is moving sideways . The nose of the aircraft is not moving , and it is therefore not yawing . It also says : Often , if an airplane in a slip is made to stall , it displays very little of the yawing tendency that causes a skidding stall to develop into a spin . A stalling airplane in a slip may do little more than tend to roll into a wings level attitude . In fact , in some airplanes stall characteristics may even be improved .
A slot time is issued for aircraft flying through busy airspaces or to busy airports where the demand ( number of flights ) exceeds the capacity . If 50 flights are planned to arrive at an airport in 1 hour , but the airport can only handle 40 flights per hour , then the flow of traffic needs to be regulated . Many years ago , everyone would simply depart , and then traffic would enter airborne holdings ( circling in the air ) along their route as they approached their destination , until there was room to land . Obviously , this is very inefficient , since planes would use a huge amount of fuel while waiting in the air . Air traffic flow management was introduced to reduce this . Computer systems now calculate how many flights are planned to arrive at a certain airport in a certain time span . This calculation is done many hours in advance - so early , in fact , that the majority of the affected flights have not left their departure airport yet . This has the advantage that aircraft can wait on the ground , at their departure airport , soaking up the delay they will inevitable face . They will simply not be allowed to takeoff until a time where it can be assured that there is room for them when they reach their destination . To achieve this , aircraft are issued a takeoff slot time ( CTOT - Calculated TakeOff Time ) , at which time the flight must depart . If the flight misses this slot time , for one reason or the other , they are not allowed to depart - instead , they must request a new slot time . If flying to a very busy airport , the new slot time could be far in the future - sometimes several hours . This means that the plane must hold on the departure airport for several hours before being able to depart . How these CTOT times are calculated is very complex , and deserves another question if you are interested . While there are no direct costs from missing a slot time , getting delayed will cause many indirect costs for an airline - passenger compensation for delayed and missed flights , extra pay for crew ( on the plane and at the airports ) and so on . So the " thousands " it may cost an airline to miss a slot time come from these indirect costs of being delayed . Obviously , the exact amount will vary greatly from flight to flight .
This is an excellent question and at the same time , very broad . Every student and pilot can give you a ton of advice about what qualities the best <URL> must have . I will list a few qualities to look for and then guide you to a few resources which can further elaborate the topic . I presume you are going for Part 61 ( <URL> ) . I also presume that you have selected a flight school or will choose from a few around your . Once you get to a flight school , normally you will be assigned a CFI by them . They will interview you and you should do the same . Ask the CFI why are they teaching and what are their goals ? Generally speaking , one half of CFIs are doing it for their future career goals ( i.e. to get a job in an airline ) and others are doing just because they earned the CFI rating and hence are earning money by teaching . Once you start flying with a CFI , see how does they respond to your mistakes ? You are a student and are learning something new . There is no way that you will master everything taught just once . ( Maybe you can , I 'm not just that smart . ) Observe how the CFI will notice your mistake , bring it your attention , rectifies it themselves or gives you instructions to do it , and most importantly , how your mistake affects their mood ? Before and after each lesson , notice how they answers your questions and explains you what you guys will be doing and have done ? Some people ( like me ) would ask a million questions . Often times , you will find teachers/instructors who do n't like to be questioned a lot . All your questions are genuine , you just need to see how are they answered . Ask your pilot friends to guide you , or check with other students at your flight school . Your friends will can give you a very honest feedback . You can benefit from other students too , but if a CFI works for someone else , they may not work for you . You are the one to judge and make the call . Naturally , you can not know about a CFI 's style unless you take a few lessons with them . That will definitely cost you money . But spending a little money to learn a valuable lesson is not wasting money . It is an investment . I am not talking about some other details as they are discussed thoroughly in the references below . Here are some resources which have answered this same question in more detail . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( AOPA has an article about almost everything aviation-related ) <URL> <URL>
No The way that both pilots can log PIC is that the pilot using a view limiting device is logging PIC as sole manipulator and the safety pilot is logging PIC because he is acting PIC and a required crew member . If the flight is operating under an instrument clearance then the acting PIC must be instrument rated . If only the pilot with the view limiting device is rated then he is acting PIC and is the only one eligible to log PIC . The safety pilot is also not allowed to log SIC as a required crewmember without an instrument rating while operating under IFR . If you are in actual IMC then you should n't be logging anything and they other guy should n't be wearing a view limiting device . If you want the PIC time ask your friend to fly VFR or get yourself an instrument rating .
In the event of a passenger dying on an airplane during flight , each case is different depending on the location of the airplane , the duration of that flight and the wishes of family or friends traveling with the deceased passenger . What happens to the flight ? If the death occurs before takeoff or shortly after takeoff , the airplane is landed back to that airport or the nearest airport . If it happens mid-flight , normally the flight is continued to its destination . Where is the deceased passenger placed ? If there is a seat available in first or business classes , the deceased person is moved there and covered with a blanket . If it is a full flight , that person may simply be strapped in more tightly and covered . This is done to ensure that the body is out of view of other passengers . A deceased person is never placed in the lavatory . It is not respectful and a major security concern . What happens at arrival airport ? The arrival airport is informed in advance about the situation . Hence police , ambulance and coroner are available . Some airlines keep body bags on board . Normally the deceased person is placed on a stretcher and is carried from the rear exit of the airplane using a lift truck and then placed in an ambulance . This might be done after other passengers have exited the airplane . What are the regulations ? FAA have regulations addressing several emergencies , but not specifically this one . An FAA spokesperson <URL> : FAA spokesman Les Dorr said he was unaware of any policies that specifically address what should be done if someone dies in flight . The airlines make those decisions on their own . <URL> mentions some incidents of this situation happening . <URL> is a company which provides airlines with medical help from emergency care doctors on the ground . They <URL> : ... there is one death for every 8 million passengers from the airlines [ they ] serve ...
The spec-sheet range is not a fixed value -- The range of the <URL> ( BAe 146-200 ) is 1,570 NM with standard fuel capacity . Range values are only valid for certain ( marketable ) payload/fuel levels . If you have less payload and/or more fuel , you increase the range . <URL> . If there is tailwind , the [ air ] distance to destination is reduced ( apparent range is increased ) . That 's why marketed range circles are not circles , as shown below . <URL> . The wind may provide a head - or tailwind component , which in turn will increase or decrease the fuel consumption by increasing or decreasing the air distance to be flown . -- <URL> Corrected distance ( after the average-wind is taken into consideration ) is checked in the <URL> phase , and the plane is loaded accordingly ( fuel and payload ) . If the aircraft ca n't reduce the payload to reach its destination , then a technical stop to refuel is planned . <URL> shows all the airlines stopping at least once on the way . <URL> ( <URL> ) Range circles take into account the <URL> .
Emergency descent ( like during a decompression event where you need to get from cruise to 10k ft ASAP to make sure the people in the back survive ) should n't make a nice curve . It only wastes time you do n't really have . Normal operation means the pilot activates the autopilot during cruise which will fly the programmed course set by the pilot . It will stay follow that course ( or put itself in a holding pattern on the final fix ) until it runs out of fuel or the pilot intervenes when it is cleared for descent . This happened with <URL> ; both pilots were incapacitated shortly after ascent and the plane put itself in a hold and crashed when it ran out of fuel after more than an hour . A plane where there is nothing controlling the altitude ( when control is lost due to loss of hydraulics for example ) will follow a <URL> . That is a series of dives and climbs as the elevators gain and lose bite on the air with speed .
No . You do not need to create new airways . You stick up to the already existent waypoints or not , if the route flies through a segment of free-route airspace . Also , the engineering department of the airline studies the route , for instance : computes the MSA ( Minimum Safe Altitude ) for every point , engine failure and depressurization simulations are done in order to avoid possible hazards in critical points , if the aircraft is ETOPS certified they will decide which alternative airports are available for the route , fuel computations , chart generation for arrival and departure ( most of the airlines use their own charts instead of those provided by the ANSP ) , et cetera . Each airline has its own policy and the process may vary but fundamentally the procedure done is to make a study of all the parameters that can affect to guarantee safety and efficiency .
Yes , the mechanic can fly the aircraft , according to <URL> ( Williams , 2014 ) : The scenario you present is a mechanic who , as part of his duties , conducts flight tests after performing maintenance on the aircraft , and does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . The mechanic holds a private pilot certificate with a valid third class medical certificate . This situation is covered under § 61.113 ( b ) , which states that , " [ a ] private pilot may , for compensation or hire , act as pilot in command of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if ( 1 ) the flight is only incidental to that business or employment and ( 2 ) the aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire . " As these flight tests are incidental to his employment as a mechanic , the mechanic is not in violation of § 61.113 when conducting these flight tests
The Delta Interview Process I interviewed about three months ago at one of the several regionals that uses the Delta interview process . It goes a little something like this : Company Introduction You arrive in the morning , somebody meets you , shakes your hand , and you usually hear a little speech or presentation about the company . If your prospective employer uses <URL> , they 'll have you verify that all of your information is still current , and gather your paperwork . Then , it 's off to Computer-Based Testing ! Computer Based Testing CBT in the Delta interview is divided into three segments : cognitive , personality , and job knowledge . Cognitive The cognitive test is essentially reflex and memory games , of the sort you 'd see on lumosity.com . Some examples : You are shown a horizontal line , with a pointer in the center . The pointer will move from side to side at random along the line . It is your task to counteract this random movement using the arrow keys to keep the pointer as close as possible to the center of the line . Measures : Focus and concentration You are shown two words , such as and . It is your task to determine as quickly as possible if they are the same or different , and to click the appropriate same or different button on screen . Measures : Attention to detail ? You are shown a table of six numerals paired with six simple shapes . This table remains on screen . You are shown a series of these shapes . Decode , as quickly as possible , the series of shapes into the numerals they represent . Measures : Matching , working memory . You are shown a graphic of a man holding a flag in one hand . The man is either facing towards or away from you . The man is either right-side-up or upside-down . No matter his orientation , determine as quickly as possible whether the man is holding the flag in his right or left hand . Measures : Spatial awareness A line wavers back and forth in a white area between two red zones in a random fashion . When the space bar is pressed , the line will instantly be reset to the center of the white area . It is your task to press the space bar as quickly as possible after the red line leaves the white area , but not before . Measures : Attention , reflexes . You are shown the horizontal line with the pointer as well as the white area with the line . It is your task to keep the pointer centered with the arrow keys while simultaneously using the space bar to reset the line when and only when it moves outside the white area . Measures : Division of attention , reflexes You are shown a series of six simple shapes . It is your task to recall the six numerals that were paired with these shapes from earlier in the test . Measures : Recall A series of simple mental math problems is presented . " Which would you rather have , 1/4th of \ $ 200 , 1/5th of \ $ 300 , or 1/3 of \ $ 250 ? " Measures : Mental math skills You are shown four rectangles . One has a thin border , one contains a filled in arrow pointing left , one has a shaded arrow pointing right , one has a thick border . There are multiple exercises to the test . During some portions of the test , you are asked to click the rectangle whose arrow matches the direction of the one you are shown . In others , you are asked to click the one whose shading matches . In others , the border . These criteria change at random . Your task is to match the proper criteria as quickly and accurately as possible . Measures : Attention to detail , adaptation to changing conditions . Listen through your headphones . A series of notes will be played . Then a second series of notes will be played . Touch SAME or DIFFERENT . Measures : Whether you were good at <URL> as a kid . Personality You are shown approximately 130 statements , one at a time . Your task is to determine how much you agree or disagree with them on the following scale : Strongly Agree Agree Neither agree nor disagree Disagree Strongly disagree The statements are similar to : I think the new morality is no morality at all . Over the years , I have done some pretty stupid things . I have literally jumped for joy . I have a hard time resisting temptation . Job Knowledge This test measures technical knowledge . It contains questions concerning : Turbine engine theory Descent planning DME arc degree-to-nautical-mile calculations Stall recovery procedures Mach-to-TAS conversion Transport category systems knowledge Emergency procedures Aerodynamics and more ! Thank Wright that 's out of the way , next up is lunch ! Then comes the interviews : Tell me about a scary time in the cockpit <URL> ? Which is colder , -40 C or -40 F ? I see that you failed a checkride , tell me about it . And so on . The conclusion You made it ! Someone comes out and shakes your hand . Now it 's time to fill out PRIA paperwork and pee in a cup . If all goes well , you 're given a conditional offer of employment ! Congrats ! You 're a regional FO ! ( If you can make it through training )
Yes , commercial airplanes have landed or crash landed in water many times . If I am not mistaken , you are asking about scenarios when the on-board <URL> and life raft are used . <URL> is a list of water landings . Examples when a life raft was used are ( in addition to <URL> ) : On 22 October 1962 , a Northwest Airlines DC-7C with 7 crew and 95 passengers made a successful water landing in Sitka Sound . ... The plane stayed afloat for 24 minutes after coming to rest in the water , giving the occupants ample time to evacuate into life-rafts . In 1993 , <URL> , a Boeing 747 -- 409 , ended up in water after it overran runway 13 ... All of the 396 occupants donned life-vests , boarded the eight slide/rafts and no fatalities resulted .
It 's essentially a manual check for many airlines , performed as part of the pre-flight checks . However , the airline I have worked for recently upgraded from manual checks to RFID tags on each lifejacket ( a sticky tag kind of <URL> ) . The RFID tags can be read from the aisle by a handheld reader . So the person who does the checks simply walks down the aisle with the reader and is able to tell if a seat is missing a jacket and also if the jacket needs to be replaced due to the expiry date fast approaching . In addition to a tag on the actual life jacket there are also security RFID tags across the life jacket holster under the seat . So the scanner is able to tell if the life jacket has been tampered with as the security tag would have been broken . As for the frequency of checks , different regions have different requirements . Usually life jackets are only needed at all if flying over a large body of water . I believe the USA requires a check before any flight which passes over the USA ( as well as water ) . Europe requires less frequent checks .
end question
start question
What general aviation single-engine piston pressurized airplanes are there ?
The ones I know of <URL> ( out of production ) <URL> ( they claim its the only pressurized piston single on the market ) <URL> ( out of production ) <URL> ( falls under experimental but is in " production " none the less ) For what its worth this is a pretty small category of plane to begin with . The M22 was not very successful ( although it was ahead of its time ) and there are not that many left flying ( less than 20 I think ) . The P210N saw some better success and the Mirage seems to be selling but in the end of the day extra maintenance and complexity of the plane its self does not lend to a very practical plane considering there size and performance numbers . If we are talking about the less produced or experimental designs we can add , <URL> - One of the early test beds for pressurization <URL> - Altitude record plane <URL> - Another early frame used for testing
You 're correct - for cargo aircraft derived from passenger planes , the cabin is pressurized . This reduces the complexity and certification requirements . Also , this allows for easy conversion too . The thick door may be due to two reasons : To improve load carrying/transferring capacity - airbus <URL> ... the aircraft 's reinforced fuselage and doors , which increase shear and bending/running loads . . also , the thick door will help protecting the crew should the cargo move forward in flight . To act like an airtight seal between the cabin and cockpit , so that it prevents smoke ingress into cockpit and to enable the crew to extinguish fire . FAA Class E ( for cargo aircraft ) <URL> between the cargo compartment and cockpit . Another thing to note is that even a number of military ' cargo ' aircraft have pressurized cabins ( An-124 , I think is among exceptions ) , as they are also used in Medivac and causality evacuation roles - these require the cabin pressure to be set higher than normal .
One particular example I can recall is Extra 330 . Modification with electric engine have been built ( Extra 330LE ) keeping the rest of the aircraft quite similar to the original petrol-engine version as far as I know . According to <URL> electric version was measured to produce 14.5 dB less noise compared to the combustion engine aircraft . Maybe you can try too look for other combustion engine aircraft converted to electric without making other significant modifications ( I am not aware of any other than this Extra 330LE though ) as a source for data you are looking for .
I 'm going to be referring to <URL> with my links in this post . As with most of what Mike writes , it 's worth a good read . Why is Pre-Heating Important ? Pre-heating your engine in the winter is important for a bunch of reasons , but there are two main ones that should get your attention - the first is preventing metal-on-metal wear by ensuring all parts have adequate clearances to function , and the second is improving lubrication by making sure your oil is ready to flow , and the spaces it 's going to flow in to are opened up enough to let the oil in . Metal-on-Metal Wear Starting a piston engine is responsible for most of the wear the engine sees in its life - surfaces which have long since had their protective coatings of oil drip off are banging together while you crank the engine , and for a few seconds after startup until the oil pump can build up pressure and splash lubrication in the crank case can thoroughly coat the other moving parts . In the case of a truly cold start there 's an additional complication : like <URL> , different metals in your engine have different coefficients of thermal expansion , and you have steel ( probably several alloys ) , aluminum , brass , and a few others in your powerplant . <URL> , and at a certain point you may even damage the engine by attempting a start , shaving or spinning bearings and scuffing cylinder walls with the rapidly expanding pistons once the engine fires . Lubrication The other factor to consider in a cold start is lubrication - both the oil doing the lubricating , and the spaces into which it needs to flow . Take the dipstick out of a cold engine and you will marvel at how the oil just clings there in a thick layer ( this is especially true of heavy single-grade oil like 100W , but even 15W50 starts getting very sticky down in the 30 ° F-35 ° F range ) . Oil that has thickened up from the cold does n't pump very well - your engine may take a longer than normal time to develop oil pressure , and narrow spaces may get little to no lubrication until the oil has heated ( and thinned ) enough to get through the narrower oil galleys and tight spaces between some components . Those tight spaces , as I mentioned under Metal-on-Metal Wear , tend to be tighter when it 's cold , which means it 's even harder for oil to work its way in and build up a good film of fluid . Until that film is built up and doing its job your engine is really inadequately lubricated , even if it 's running . ( Check out the webinar video in 2NinerRomeo 's answer where Mike Busch goes into a lot of detail on how oil works , he has a nice explanation of the fluid film lubrication process . ) How do I make sure I do my preheat right ? <URL> It basically guarantees that every part of your aircraft has been brought up to the same temperature , and even affords you a nice place to preflight as opposed to doing it out on the ramp in the 6-but-feels-like-60 knot winter winds . A hangar preheat is n't just the best for your engine -- your gyro instruments get brought up to a nice warm temperature ( remember , mechanical gyros have to spin up , and they have the same issues as your engine did in terms of clearances being reduced by the cold ) , and the ship 's battery gets warmed up too so it 's ready to provide its best possible cranking current . I do n't have a hangar you insensitive clod ! Unfortunately some of us ( like ME ) do n't have hangars - heated or otherwise - or our local FBO charges a hefty sum to spend the night in the warm . Those of us without hangars have to make due with a ramp pre-heat of some kind . I 'm going to assume you 're in the same boat as me ( no hangar , no electricity ) , and have to use some other technique . Most ramp pre-heats where you have neither a hangar nor electricity take the form of a <URL> - either one wheeled around by the FBO , or portable ones powered by propane . <URL> which are deceptively good at the job ( and in a pinch can burn the avgas you drained checking your tanks for water ) . The general procedure for a forced-hot-air preheat is to point the heat into the cowl 's cooling inlets , letting the warm air flow over and around the engine and out the cooling outlets . Start the heater up before your preflight , and with a little luck by the time you 're done with the walk-around your engine will be ready to start . If it 's extremely cold you may want to block part of the inlets and put a blanket over the cowling during the pre-heat to help keep the heat trapped on the engine , and as 2NinerRomeo points out , when using a high-intensity heat source like a propane heater make sure you do n't pump so much heat into the cowling that you blister your paint . A gradual warm-up is what you want - we 're slow-roasting the engine , not broiling it . How do I know the preheat is " done " ? There are three common ways to tell if your preheat has had enough time to adequately warm your engine - each technique works pretty well , and you can use whichever makes the most sense for your situation . Testing by feel This is clas
By motor oil , I assume that you mean automotive motor oil . In that case , it 's a bad idea for a bunch of reasons . First , every airplane POH I 've seen has specified that the oil must qualify to a standard - either MIL-L-6082 or MIL-L-22851 ( though those have been superseded by an SAE standard ) . Modern automotive oil does n't meet that standard , and therefore is effectively forbidden by the POH . More to the point , automotive oil is bad for aviation engines . Aviation and automotive engines work on the same basic principles , but many of the details are different .1 One significant difference is that aviation engines normally burn some oil as they run , while well-performing automobile engines burn little or none . Automotive oil contains a number of additives , such as detergents and wear inhibitors , intended for use where the oil does n't burn off . Some of those additives do not burn completely , but instead stick around in the form of ash , where they can foul the engine and create deposits that lead to pre-ignition . That is why aviation oil is ashless dispersant : it cleans the engine by dispersing combustion byproducts into the oil ( to be removed on the next oil change ) , while being ashless when burned . Lycoming considers it serious enough to put in an all-caps " CAUTION " section in their <URL> document : UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD AUTOMOTIVE OIL BE USED . THE USE OF AUTOMOTIVE LUBRICANTS IN TEXTRON LYCOMING ENGINES IS NOT RECOMMENDED BECAUSE ITS USE COULD CAUSE ENGINE FAILURE . If all of that was n't enough , use of an improper oil may void your engine warranty . In short : do n't use it . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> 1 ) Note that I 'm referring to air-cooled aviation engines that burn 100LL - made by , say , Lycoming or Continental . Rotaxes and new aero-diesels are different , and more like their respective automotive counterparts ; in fact , Thielert engines are actually based on automotive diesels .
Short answer : Operational voltages on the 28 V bus may range from 22 V to 30 V. Abnormal voltages on the 28 V bus may occur from 0 V to 60 V . The detailed requirements depend on the manufacturer , the type of plane and the jurisdiction . USA : MIL-STD-704 US military standard <URL> defines electrical properties of military aircraft equipment . For instance the 28 V DC bus is specified as : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> A similar standard should exist for commercial aircraft , unless they just apply MIL-STD-704 as well . Europe : ISO 1540 In Europe there is <URL> . This standard differentiates by the actual power source : Category A : TRU ( transformer ) Category B : engine driven DC generator Category R : regulated DC power from active converter Category A and B are specified identically for their DC characteristics . Category B is the worst case for AC ripples . Category R is the best case , as it is already regulated . Nevertheless , connected equipment needs to cope with the worst case , that is category B ( engine driven generator ) . ISO 1540 specifies the 28 V DC bus characteristics ( summarized ) as : 28 V DC bus - Normal operation : 22 V - 30 V 28 V DC bus - abnormal/onset : 0 V - 60 V <URL> <URL>
The European Commission has published the <URL> under Article 14 of <URL> ( the CPDLC rule ) It contains the following table of aircraft that are permanently exempted from the CPDLC implementing rule .
Like anything else a <URL> except the engine is bolted directly to it ( <URL> ) . In a car a rolling road is simply a way to couple the tires to the dyno without having to have any custom fittings . For what its worth cars lose a bit of horse power in the transmission/drive shaft/differential so shaft horse power and wheel horsepower are not always the same . However in a plane the prop is bolted more or less to the end of the crank ( with the exception of some planes with stepper gear boxes ) . In any case shaft horsepower on a plane engine is more or less whats available at the prop . Here is a lycoming engine on a dyno <URL> ( <URL> )
There is n't a simple easy-to-use API for this , but there is a plethora of model data you can use to derive a proxy for cloud locations . Specifically the <URL> and <URL> both run global forecast models and there are various regional models ( e.g. in the US we have <URL> and various high-res WRF runs ) . The GFS , for example , provides relative humidity and cloud water mixing ratio at its vertical gridpoints and from these you could model where clouds are likely to be . It is certainly possible to model cloud bases with publicly available datasets as demonstrated by the folks at <URL> can attest to , as cloud base heights play a role in vivid colors at sunset . This wo n't be an easy-to-query API , but well within the research of someone willing to work with existing forecast and observational data ( satellite ( visible , IR , water vapor ) , soundings , profilers , radar , etc ) to build a predictive cloud location model . There may already be published literature on this and you might get more information over on <URL> if that is the case or if there is some dataset already out there that I 'm not personally aware of .
Fuel efficiency . One engine can run more efficiently than two , even if the two have the same power output combined than the one . Friction losses , inertia losses , etc. . . The same thing can be seen in commercial airliners today . Now that gas turbines have reached a very reliable state , and the regulations for overwater flight recognize this , we are seeing large two engine widebodies ( 777 ) replacing four engine widebodies ( A340 ) , partially due to lower maintenance costs ( cheaper to rebuild two large engines than four smaller ones ) but mainly for reasons of fuel consumption . The <URL> that made the round the world unrefueled flight had two engines , but only used both for takeoff and initial climb . After that , the one was shut down for the duration of the flight , for reasons of fuel consumption . Obviously , two engines are more reliable than one , and yes , a single engine long range flight is risky .
Lets take the EU for example . In the EU , <URL> . The majority of these ( 228 ) are banned because the EU CAA has determined that the country in which these carriers operate do not have enough oversight to ensure the safe operation , regulation , and maintenance of the airlines . Two of the air carriers are banned specifically because of poor maintenance standards , obsolete aircraft , or other reasons . Similarly the US has the <URL> although a much shorter list because it really only evaluates airlines that are codeshare or operated by companies that serve flights to/from the US . For the EU , this is a larger list because it does not require crossing an ocean to get there ... Typically you 'll find on these lists quite a few airlines that operate out of developing countries like the Congo or Angola . Its reasonable to draw the conclusion that countries that do not have regulatory oversight for much outside of running the government itself leaves the standards of safety to the operators themselves . This is n't to say that the operators are automatically unsafe , they just lack government regulation and observation of safety standards . So to mirror what vortaq7 said in his comment above , quantifying this is going to be difficult since the types of operations vary highly between countries . For example the US has a high accident rate looking at pure fatalities over the last 25 years compared to any other country , but this is because the US is biggest aviation market . Looking at it in the context of incidents per million flight hours may be available , but it also groups a lot of different types of flights like cargo and commuter . I 'm sure this type of data is available for more developed countries with reporting systems and formal accident investigations but may be difficult for countries that do n't have that . And now for a personal note ... I know you 're not interested in the personal aspect but Angola 's air carriers are banned in the EU , so it gives a little credibility to what I say above , plus its a good story . :) A part of my job is travelling the world and being flown out to oil rigs for work on the automation and safety systems . About 8 or 9 years ago I had to fly out to Luanda , Angola to be flown out to a rig a few hours off the Angolan coast . The flight there ( and back ) was on the <URL> , a direct flight from Houston to Angola . Upon arrival at the Luanda airport , I was taken to the heli-terminal for the flight out to the rig . Now understand that in the US Gulf of Mexico people travelling by helicopter to an oil rig are required to have egress training . In the EU , travelling out into the North Sea also must include cold water survival . In Luanda however , there were zero requirements ( I know this because I did not have egress training , nor was I asked to prove I did ) . After 3 or 4 equipment delays we were finally boarded on the helicopter , I sat across from the flight engineer and 3 or 4 other rig hands were on board . After take-off and after we flew over the coast , here is pretty much the actual words I spoke : ME - > Flight Engineer : What is dripping on the back of my neck ? Smells like fuel . FE - > ME : It is fuel . ME - > FE : Should I be concerned ? FE - > ME : Only if it stops dripping , that means we are out of fuel . Be sure I spent the remainder of the flight studying very carefully how to pop out the egress window ... When we got back to Luanda the aircraft we were supposed to take back to Houston had " mechanical problems " which delayed my return by 3 days . I could see the aircraft on the tarmac and it was sitting on cinder blocks without any tires , literally like you would imagine leaving a nice car in a bad neighborhood overnight . I spent those 3 days in a compound run by the oil company that had 16 foot tall walls with barbed wire and a very hefty front gate .
You would need a three-axis autopilot . The nature of an unusual attitude is that it needs corrections around all three axes .
Blades of wind turbines , airplanes and helicopters are essentially the same . They are all wings , roughly to do the same job . However , each one is designed or enhanced to do their special job . The differences can be : Number of revolutions Wing span Rate of flow Tip speed Density of medium Material Load Turbine blades are designed to move in large volumes of rather slow moving air ( usually 10-30 mph ) and not create turbulence that fouls the next blade . Aircraft propellers are designed to move high velocity air and avoid the turbulence by moving out of the way . Wind turbines use blade pitch to adjust the rotation speed and the generated power . Wind turbine 's control system adjusts the blade pitch to keep the rotor speed within operating limits as the wind speed changes . In aircraft , blade pitch is usually described as " coarse " for a coarser angle , and " fine " for a finer .
Yes , short range airliners are designed for up to 90.000 cycles whereas long range airliners can be designed for 40.000 cycles or less . And it is not only the pressurized cabin that needs to be designed for more load cycles , also the landing gear has a lot more work to do . This should become clear when you calculate how many miles/kilometers an airplane will taxi in its life and compare that to the design life of a regular car . Your average short range airliner will easily taxi 5 times more miles in its life than your average car will drive .
Sounds like a <URL> to me . <URL> image source : <URL> , photographer : Chris Finney
Twin enigned aircrafts without counter-rotating propellers A great many twins do n't have counter-rotating props : One such aircraft is the BeechCraft Baron 58 , as seen in <URL> . Another aircraft I can think of is the King Air 350 . It is not any more or less common to have one or the other . Contra-rotating propellers Another interesting solution to the P-factor ( prop pulling towards one direction ) , especially on single engine aircraft is contra-rotating props , two propellers on the same shaft that spin in opposite directions . This is mainly for single engine racer aircraft , but there are multi-engine aircraft known to have it , such as the Soviet Tu-95 Bear bomber . The pic shown here is a Spitfire Mk . XIV : A better explanation of the P-factor P-factor is the term for asymmetric propeller loading , that causes the airplane to yaw to the left when at high angles of attack . Assuming a clockwise rotating propeller it is caused by the descending right side of the propeller ( as seen from the rear ) having a higher angle of attack relative to the oncoming air , and thus generating a higher air flow and thrust than the ascending blade on the left side , which at the other hand will generate less airflow and thrust . This will move the propellers aerodynamic centre to the right of the planes centreline , thus inducing an increasing yaw moment to the left with increasing angle of attack or increasing power . With increasing airspeed and decreasing angle of attack less right rudder will be required to maintain coordinated flight .
Yes . <URL> Top result : <URL> Perhaps the most intriguing product floated by HBC at its NBAA press conference was a single-engine turboprop . The company says the airplane has no public name or designation but will " absolutely , " said Holcombe , be " called a King Air . " That name , of course , has never been bestowed upon a single-engine airplane before . This King Air , however , will be no scaled-back PT-6 single . Like the remarkably roomy and powerful Pilatus PC-12 , the Beechcraft single will be big . Its fuselage will be -- get this -- based on that of the Premier 1A , which , HBC claims , has the best cabin of any bizjet in its class . It will certainly be huge for a single . In addition to the voluminous cabin , the single would feature a large side loading door , room for eight to 11 occupants and industry-leading pressurization . The composite fuselage allows for efficient pressurization . HBC says it will build the fuselage in the same way it builds the Premier 1A today , using state-of-the-art winding technology for extremely light and strong composite structures . <URL>
Outside US , SI is generally used for everything except altitude , distance and speed . Altitude : 1000 ft happens to be reasonable vertical separation , which is somewhat easier to calculate with than the corresponding metric figure 300 m. Distance : There are two quantities that were never converted to decimal . Time and angle . Since we did n't switch to gradians , it makes sense to keep nautical mile , which corresponds to 1 minute along meridian or equator , as it makes calculating distances from navigational maps somewhat easier . If the maps were marked in gradian coordinates , 1 gradian would be 100 km and kilometres would be used . Speed : Obviously based on the unit of distance in use . In Russia , Commonwealth of Independent States ( most former Soviet countries ) and China ( and I am not sure whether some other Asian countries ) , metric system is used for everything . I believe in Russia they recently switched to flight levels based on feet , but they do use metres below transition altitude . Before second world war , aircraft built in continental Europe usually had instruments in metric units as well . However before the war aviation was more advanced in the USA , instrument procedures were developed in USA and after the war there was surplus of US-built planes , so most of the world just adopted the US procedures including the units they used as everybody using the same units was more important than any personal preferences . Without these reasons we 'd be probably using metric in Europe for everything too .
Well , yes . Variable shape wings ( or variable geometry ) have a number of uses , primarily in being able to optimize the shape of the wing to an ideal form for the regime of flight . The idea is n't new ; birds , bats and other flying creatures twist and warp the shape of their wings in order to maneuver and generate thrust as these pigeons demonstrate . <URL> The Wright Brothers used a warping wing box on their gliders and the 1903 flyer . Orville Wright is said to have come up with the idea while twisting a rectangular cardboard box used to ship bicycle tire inner tubes . The chief advantages to such a design are that it provides an extremely clean airframe , aerodynamic wise , without joints , separate control surfaces , moving parts , etc which create excess drag . In addition , the aircraft shape can automatically be optimized to the altitudes , speeds and Mach numbers desired without tradeoffs for weight or performance required with aircraft made from conventional materials . The downside to warping wings is solving the problem of finding materials which could be flexible and change their shape and then remain rigid and immutable under aerodynamic loads . Wood and metal airframes lacked the capability to do this successfully . Early attempts to solve this problem have been to make ' swing wing ' designs where the wing can be rotated at the wing root to an optimal sweep in flight . The Bell X-5 successfully demonstrated this concept and it has been used on a number of military aircraft including the F-111 , F-14 , MiG-23 / 27 , B-1 , and SU-22 . NASA is currently developing a morphing wing for these reasons . If successful and shown to be feasible from a manufacturing and service standpoint , it would be a game changer . <URL>
Lycoming engines have the camshaft above the crankshaft , and Continental engines have the cam below the crankshaft . This seems to keep the Conti cams better oiled and therefore less susceptible to corrosion .
end question
start question
What are the " channels " on the A320 Rudder Travel Limit Unit ?
The problem is that you 're using the Flight Operations Manual , and not the Schematic Manuals . Quite frankly , FOM 's pretty much suck in terms of technical details , but that 's not their purpose either . In regards to your question about what the channels are : Channels are really just a euphemism for system redundancy . The FAC 's are two completely separate entities ( with crosstalk capabilities ) - kind of like flight crews . The PIC ( pilot-in-command ) has primary control of the aircraft , while the SIC ( second-in-command ) has the same independent authority . The PIC and SIC can talk to one another , and monitor what each is doing . If the PIC falls ill , becomes incapacitated , etc. . the SIC can take over the functions of the PIC . The FAC 's work the same way . They both receive the same information , and have full capability of performing the work of one another . Take note of this schematic , courtesy of Airbus ( <URL> ) , and which I took the liberty of highlighting : <URL> Basically , what this schematic is saying is that the ELAC 's , under normal law , provide turn coordination and dutch roll damping to the FAC 's . They do this by receiving inputs from the rudder pedals , sidesticks , FMGC 's , ADIRU 's , SFCC , LGCIU 's , and hyd pressure . Based on those inputs , it computes the proper yaw commands and sends that to the FAC 's . It should be noted that both FAC 's receive the same information on , you guessed it , separate channels . What does that mean ? The data from ELAC 1 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires . Inside the FAC 's , those data paths are split as well ( Channel A &amp; Channel B ) and a separate processor computes the data on Channel A &amp; the data on Channel B. Never the two shall meet . Likewise , the data from ELAC 2 is sent to BOTH FAC 's on separate sets of wires , and again , those two data paths shall never meet . At the same time , both FAC 's are receiving the same FMGC , ADIRU , SFCC , LGCIU data that the ELAC is . Again ... Separate wires , separate outputs , and computed with two different processors inside the boxes . The FAC 's are also receiving hydraulic pressure , commanded rudder trim position , and SEC fault data . Guess what ? All on different channels . Now , take note of the highlighted portion in red . Ordinarily , FAC 1 is in control of the servo loop for the RTL Motors . This essentially means that based on ALL of the inputs received from the ELAC 's and other independent systems , the FAC 1 sends a signal to the rudder travel motor and says " Move here . " The motor moves , and a feedback signal from the RTLU circuitry is sent to the FAC saying " Here I am . " When the commanded position of the surface position minus the actual position of the surface is approximately ~ 0 , the surface is nulled . This is a basic feedback loop/servoloop . The FAC 2 has the exact same capabilities as FAC 1 . The two are in constant communication , making sure that neither has failed . If FAC 1 reports a self-failure , or FAC 2 detects a problem with FAC 1 and/or its servo loop , FAC 2 can immediately take over . Notice that FAC 2 is responsible for the M2 ( second motor ) of the rudder travel limit system , and FAC 1 is responsible for the M1 ( primary motor ) of the rudder travel limit system . The wiring for the motors and its associated servo loop are completely separate . Again , the idea is complete system isolation . As such , any one failure can not take out the entirety of a system . All of the above is under the presumption of NORMAL LAW . It appears that cracked solder joints , emphases on the plural form , caused failures of Channel A &amp; Channel B of the RTLU ( see page 66 of accident report ) . Basically , like I mentioned previously , FAC 2 was monitoring FAC 1 for faults with it or its associated servo loop . When RTL channel A failed ( the servo loop feeding data back to FAC 1 ; associated with Motor 1 ) , the FAC 2 picked up on it , and took over on its own separate channel . A cracked solder joint on RTL channel B caused FAC 2 to trigger a failure . At some point during these failures , the flight crew pulled the circuit breakers , presumably to reset the faults . The loss of both FAC 's put the aircraft into alternate law . Once the aircraft was in alternate law , it seemed that there was a lot of confusion as to what was happening . From there , things went from bad to disastrous .
For a transport category airplane with 20 more more seats the minimum aisle width is 15 inches from the floor to a height of 25 inches , and 20 inches width above a height of 25 inches . § 25.815 Width of aisle . The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table : 1A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator .
For the same reason you should turn your wipers off when you shut off your car ( since very few people go through a power-up checklist in their car ... ) : Running the wipers on a dry windshield can damage both the wiper and the windshield as the dry blades drag small particles of dirt , grit , rocks , etc across the windshield . These particles can tear up the rubber of the wiper , and they can scratch the windshield . Dragging dirt and rock particles across a wet windshield is n't inherently good for either wiper or screen , but the water acts as a lubricant and significantly reduces the damage potential . It 's far cheaper to print an extra line in the check list and have the pilots take 5 seconds to check it than it is to replace wiper blades and windscreens .
The attachment rail/track width ( gauge ) is not fixed . It differs from plane to plane , and the chosen seat manufacturer obliges . 21 " or 55 cm seems the average though . <URL> Source : <URL> Above image shows B717 cross section , you can notice the 3-abreast and 2-abreast both are on two rails . No high-res available . Different plane models : <URL> Some are wall mounted .
Looking at the hurricane manuals for a few airports , evacuating flyable aircraft to a safer location tends to be the most common choice . From the <URL> Effective with the issuance of a Storm WARNING and/or Hurricane WARNING : Relocate flyable aircraft to other geographical areas , place under suitable shelter , or secure as appropriate . Also , from the <URL> Upon receipt of a Hurricane Warning , Airside Operations will : Initiate evacuation of all flyable aircraft and post Airfield Operations Senior Agents and Agents in detail to insure compliance and report results .
They use the airport power . The airport and its important equipment have backup power and/or a dedicated power plant ( which itself will have backup plans ) . This is what the FAA says : The FAA recognizes the need to have a reliable power source to operate NAVAIDs , even during utility power outages . Order 6030.20 establishes Continuous Power Airports ( CPAs ) that provide continuous operations in the event of an area-wide utility failure . Backup power to designated runways at these airports must be able to supply power for at least 4 hours for runway lighting as well as navigation , landing and communication equipment . In addition , FAA policy also requires that power systems used for support of Category ( CAT ) II and CAT-III operations must be capable of transferring to an alternate source within one second . Source : <URL> Basically it 's to avoid having to <URL> . Select airports and runways have to be able to operate . ICAO recommends the same thing and lists the criteria airports need to meet in Annex 14 , section 8.1 Secondary power supply . For example : 8.1.5 Recommendation . -- Requirements for a secondary power supply should be met by either of the following : -- independent public power , which is a source of power supplying the aerodrome service from a substation other than the normal substation through a transmission line following a route different from the normal power supply route and such that the possibility of a simultaneous failure of the normal and independent public power supplies is extremely remote ; or -- standby power unit ( s ) , which are engine generators , batteries , etc. , from which electric power can be obtained . For navaids in general that are not within an airport , then ICAO Annex 10 , Volume I , Part I , Chapter 2 handles the recommendations .
FAA Advisory Circular ( AC ) <URL> covers " standards and recommendations for airport design . " It does not include any restrictions on proximity to bodies of water , but it does make the following recommendation in paragraph 319 ( a ) : It is recommended that the entire RSA and RPZ be accessible to rescue and fire-fighting vehicles such that no part of the RSA or RPZ is more than 330 feet ( 100 m ) from either an all-weather road or a paved operational surface . Where an airport is adjacent to a body of water where access by rescue personnel from airport property is desirable , it is recommended that boat launch ramps with appropriate access roads be provided . The actual FARs ( <URL> ) also do not state a limit . The only reference to bodies of water of any kind is in § 139.325 ( Airport emergency plan ) paragraph ( e ) : The plan required by this section shall contain provisions , to the extent practicable , for the rescue of aircraft accident victims from significant bodies of water or marsh lands adjacent to the airport which are crossed by the approach and departure flight paths of air carriers . A body of water or marsh land is significant if the area exceeds one-quarter square mile and can not be traversed by conventional land rescue vehicles . To the extent practicable , the plan shall provide for rescue vehicles with a combined capacity for handling the maximum number of persons that can be carried on board the largest air carrier aircraft that the airport reasonably can be expected to serve . So , bottom line : there is no limit , but airports are required to take water into due consideration when developing emergency plans , and the FAA looks at each airport and plan on a case-by-case basis during airport certification . As for the rest of the world , I have no authoritative information ; but as others have posted , it certainly seems like the situation is the same , there being numerous examples of airports worldwide built on natural or reclaimed land very close to water .
I went poking around the FAA <URL> until I found <URL> , which states : Sec . 139.307 Unpaved areas . ( a ) In a manner authorized by the Administrator , each certificate holder [ must ] maintain and promptly repair the surface of each gravel , turf , or other unpaved runway , taxiway , or loading ramp and parking area on the airport that is available for air carrier use as follows : ... ( b ) FAA Advisory Circulars contain methods and procedures for the maintenance and configuration of unpaved areas that are acceptable to the Administrator . So I went looking for those advisory circulars . There are probably more that I have n't found , but <URL> beginning at page 82 seems to have the sort of thing you 're looking for .
A circle makes sense because a physical attitude indicator is round . ( A physical one has to be round because it consists of a ball moving behind a window . ) It makes the screen display look more like the instrument it replaces , which is good for recognition and familiarity , and makes it easier to judge things like bank angles . A rectangle makes sense because it has to fit on a rectangular screen . You can tile rectangular instruments/displays on a screen efficiently , with no wasted space between them , as your example shows with the tapes . Rounding the corners delineates the edges of the display better than just having abutting rectangles . The full process by which physical cockpit instruments and glass-cockpit displays are designed and laid out is too long to explain here . The main focus is on making it hard to make mistakes , and after that to make it quick to see the most important information . To support this , each instrument has to be easy to identify and to read correctly . Despite the shape difference , the two designs look very similar . Even if you 've never flown any of these aircraft before , you 'd immediately recognise it as an attitude indicator , and you would n't confuse it with a different instrument .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
The control surfaces of airliners are not connected to the pilots ' control via cables ; they are operated by a hydraulic pump . When the engines are shut down , there is no hydraulic pressure in the pipes , and the control surface is free to move . The rudder is moved from the center position by wind . If you observe the gates , you should note that all airplanes have their rudder deflected to the same direction . In a perfect no-wind scenario , the rudder would stay neutral . There are no gust locks which the pilot must arm before leaving the cockpit on Boeing aircraft ( and I presume Airbus too ) . Gust locks are , however , common in general aviation aircraft . They can also be found on some small business jets . The reason being , control surfaces on small aircraft work " both ways " - if you move the elevator by hand , the yoke in the cockpit will move as well . These are called " reversible flight control systems " . Therefore , when the control surfaces are moved by wind , the entire system - yoke , cables , wheels , bearings etc. are all moved back and forth . This brings a significant amount of wear and stress to the system . Strong wind may also cause the surfaces to deflect past their designed maximum , causing damage . The control surfaces on airliners are much heavier and much stronger . Also , they are not " directly " connected to the cockpit 's controls - when there is no hydraulic power , pretty much every component is disconnected . Unless you 're facing gale force winds , it is safe to just let them swing free with wind and gravity .
Oxygen in passenger masks is either generated by oxygen generator or released from pressurized container via reduction valve . In either case it is released at fixed rate . But human breath is discontinous . So the bag acts as a buffer . You inhale the oxygen accumulated in it and then it slowly refills while you are exhaling .
The magnetron is a high-powered vacuum tube , that works as self-excited microwave oscillator . They are used mainly in radar transmitters as either pulsed or cw oscillators at frequencies . In ( civil ) aircraft , they are mostly used in weather radars . They have relatively simple construction but have been replaced in almost all aircraft due to their disadvantages : They can usually work only on a constructively fixed frequency . They have poor reliability . They have high power consumption and have noise issues . They have finite life , considerably lesser than solid state devices . Most of the aircraft operating today use solid state devices in their Radars . It may be still used in some older aircraft and helicopters , but they are becoming increasingly rare . Weather radars are regularly used by pilots to detect the weather conditions in front of them . According to Airbus Flight Operations Briefing Notes : Optimum Use of the Weather Radar The weather radar only detects : Rainfall Wet hail and wet turbulence Ice crystals , dry hail and dry snow . However , these three elements give small reflections compared to water droplets . It does not detect clouds , fog or clear air turbulence . Most of the aircraft in the list were designed 25 + years ago and have ( mostly ) switched over to solid state devices . Aircrafts are rarely used after 30 years as maintenance becomes expensive . However magnetrons are still used in some aircraft due to their simple construction and high power output . For example , the WU-880 Radar Receiver Transmitter Antenna in Honeywell Primus 880 radar used in Falcon 2000EX uses magnetron . Note : Almost all commercial aircraft use convection ovens to heat food ( they wo n't have aluminum foils if they microwave ovens were being used ) ; however , microwave ovens are available for aircraft and are used in some executive aircraft .
Wind affects your flight path angle by affecting how far you travel while you 're descending . With no thrust from the engine an airplane is falling out of the sky at a roughly constant rate of descent . The wind direction affects the groundspeed , and thus the distance covered between when the engine failed &amp; when the aircraft hits the ground . This is more directly observable from outside the airplane . Consider these 4 scenarios on a post-it note : The airplane has lost its engine , and the pilot is flying at best-glide airspeed while holding a constant magnetic heading ( making no wind corrections ) : <URL> No Wind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( about 45 degrees in my drawing ) , and travels in a straight line over the ground ( the " ground track " ) while doing so . Headwind The aircraft descends along a steeper glide path ( about 60 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate the headwind is slowing its progress over the ground . Since it 's a direct headwind ( right on the nose ) the ground track is still straight . Tailwind The aircraft descends along a shallower glide path ( about 30 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate it has a tailwind , which is making it move faster over the ground . Since it 's a direct tailwind the ground track is still straight here too . Crosswind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( because it has neither a headwind nor a tailwind ) , but the crosswind pushes the ground track ( in this case into the inconveniently-placed tree ) . Your endurance ( time aloft ) will be similarly unaffected : If you 've set the aircraft up at its optimum glide angle-of-attack ( best glide airspeed ) the descent rate is pretty much the same regardless of whether you have a headwind , tailwind , or crosswind . You will fall the same distance in the same amount of time , it 's just a matter of how far you travel while you 're falling ( which determines where you land ) . You can test this for yourself in an airplane by doing engine-out drills : Line up with a headwind , pull the throttle out , and pitch for the aircraft 's best glide speed . Note your vertical speed ( rate of descent ) , and then repeat the test in the opposite direction ( tailwind ) or at 90 degrees to your original course ( direct crosswind ) : The vertical speed will be effectively the same .
It depends on the aircraft , but in general the answer is that there are no regulatory age limitations , and indeed we have many aircraft flying that are 50 + years old . A notable exception is the Robinson line of piston helicopters . <URL> , whichever comes first , at which point the entire airframe must be completely overhauled . Some of the airframes are indeed rebuilt , but some are also scrapped , depending on level of wear and corrosion . Since the airframe lifetime is in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH , it is governed by : § 91.9 Civil aircraft flight manual , marking , and placard requirements . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry .
Downward aileron travel must be restricted when flaps are deflected . Since flaps change the local incidence on the flapped part of the wing , the outer wing will experience an increase in its local angle of attack . The increased suction over the inner wing will accelerate not only the air flowing over the inner wing , but also that air which will flow over the outer wing as well . Left to itself , the outer wing would stall if powerful Fowler flaps are deployed on the inner wing . <URL> , and now the outer wing is back in business . However , if the aileron is deflected downwards , the stall angle of attack is reduced again . The outer wing could stall simply due to the aileron deflection ! I do not need to point out that an asymmetric stall on approach is extremely undesirable . Now roll control could still be achieved by only moving one aileron upwards . But this would decrease the induced drag at the wingtip at low speed . Remember , at low speed the induced drag is dominant ( it is proportional to the inverse of the flight speed squared ) , so the drag change due to an aileron deflection will cause an inverse yawing moment at a time when the pilot wants to keep the aircraft lined up with the runway . Using the spoilers instead will incur a higher lift loss for the same rolling moment , but will also increase local drag , which creates a helpful yawing moment into the opposite direction of the one created by upward aileron deflection . THAT 's why spoilers are preferred for roll control on approach . I am surprised , however , that you observed no aileron motion at all . Normally , the ailerons are still used , but with a much restricted travel range , as @DeltaLima mentions in his answer .
The concept of lift force per unit span comes from <URL> . It will need some background information to explain what it means , so bear with me . In the early years of flight , electricity was new and exciting , and it just happened that the <URL> worked equally well when calculating the local flow change effected by a wing . What is the electrical current in a wire became the vorticity in a vortex , and the strength and orientation of the induced magnetic field were equivalent to the induced flow changes . So the vocabulary of electricity was copied over to aerodynamics , just like brain research used vocabulary from computer science when that was a hot topic . Now we are left with abstract concepts like induced drag or lift per unit span . It would be so much more descriptive to use proper names , but the authors of technical books learned it that way and are much too lazy to explain aerodynamics any better . In <URL> , you have sources , sinks and vortices . Sources and sinks are used to generate the displacement effect of a physical body moving through air , and vortices are used to explain why wings bend the flow and create lift . In order to calculate the lift force $ L$ of a single vortex in two-dimensional flow , the circulation strength $ \ Gamma $ of the vortex is multiplied by the airspeed $ u _ { \ infty } $ and air density $ \ rho $ . You will find an equation like $ L = - \ Gamma \ cdot u _ { \ infty } \ cdot \ rho $ in many treatises about numerical aerodynamics . To expand that into the third dimension ( and , consequently , into reality ) , you need to add something measured in spanwise direction - but you have already lift , and adding the third dimension would give a moment ( lift times distance ) where only lift would make sense . Therefore , this two-dimensional lift is now called " lift per unit of span " so there is still space for a third dimension where two-dimensional flow did already produce lift ( counter to any sound intuition ) . And no , this is never constant over span . In all cases the vorticity is gradually reduced towards the tips , or explained in a better way , the suction force acting on the wing is gradually reduced when you approach the tips because when the wing ends , nothing can prevent the air from flowing from the high-pressure region below to the low-pressure region on the upper surface of the wing . While the potential flow mentioned above is the mathematical way of looking at aircraft , lift coefficients are the engineer 's way of expressing things . From tests it was soon clear that the lift force of a wing scales with the dynamic pressure $ q $ of the flow , that is the product of air density and the square of airspeed : $ q = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ . The next observation of engineers was that lift also scales with wing area $ S$ . To make the lifting force independent of wing size and dynamic pressure , they stripped both from the lift ( physical unit of Kilopond , Newton or pound-force ) so they arrived at a dimensionless figure which they called lift coefficient $ c_L $ . Doing so made it much easier to compare measurements or scale up known designs for the next , better design . The lift equation now becomes $ L = c_L \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $
The document you cite actually goes on to explain what the procedure is for calculators , and when testing centers can prevent you from using your own ( you 'll be provided a loaner ) : Testing centers may provide a calculator to you and/or deny use of your personal calculator based on the following limitations : a. Prior to , and upon completion of the test , while in the presence of the Unit Member ( formerly referred to as proctor ) , you must actuate the ON/OFF switch and perform any other function that ensures erasure of any data stored in memory circuits . b . The use of electronic calculators incorporating permanent or continuous type memory circuits without erasure capability is prohibited . The Unit Member may refuse the use of your calculator when unable to determine the calculator 's erasure capability . [ ... ] Basically , you can bring a graphing calculator and wipe it , but unless the center is able to confirm that you 've removed all stored memory , they 're probably just gon na say " nah " and hand you a basic calculator . There 's a pretty good chance that your graphing calculator falls under the " permanent or continuous type memory circuits " category anyway .
The system never ' votes ' on anything . Which input to use is decided by manual configuration . Even for the triply redundant systems ( airspeed , baro-altitude , attitude ) the system will only degrade and show appropriate ECAM warning and the pilots must verify which system is fauly and disconnect it . So this is no different for radio altimeter . Only because there is just two of them , it is even more important to cross-reference the other systems to identify which is faulty . The radio altimeter does not affect auto-thrust . AFAIK , it is only used for : altitude callouts , scaling autopilot response to ILS deviation and flare during auto-land . For thrust , the only feature is that if thrust levers are not in idle by 20 ft AGL , it will call out the famous " retard , retard " instead of altitude to remind the pilots of that condition . And since Halifax runway 5 has only localiser , but no glideslope , ACA 624 was not doing ILS approach , so radio altimeter only affected the callouts .
The latest revision of the MMEL for the A320 family was approved a month ago by EASA . The <URL> only contains a PDF document with the <URL> for Airbus aircraft . For some manufacturers ( e.g. Cessna ) the full MMEL is included on the EASA website . The <URL> on MMELs says : Each MMEL document is the property of the ( S ) TC holder , and only made available here in full if requested by the ( S ) TC holder . If a full copy is not available here then please contact the ( S ) TC Holder to get a copy of the document in question . So you have to contact Airbus in this case .
end question
start question
Is there a formula to calculate how big a ventral fin should be ?
There is no single formula - the number of factors to consider are too numerous and the load cases are too diverse . Here is an incomplete list : Directional stability : Depending on fuselage size and shape , the tail must be sized to pull the aircraft into the wind direction . The fuselage is destabilising in yaw and the tail is needed to counteract that . Depending on factors like <URL> , some of that stabilisation can be <URL> of the airframe . In multi-engined aircraft : Yaw from <URL> . If one engine fails , the fin must be large enough to create an equal but opposite yawing moment to that of the still running engine on the other side . Multi-engined aircraft have a <URL> below which directional control with one engine inoperative is lost . In high aspect ratio designs : Counteract <URL> . When ailerons are deflected and the aircraft rolls , the direction of lift on the side with the trailing-edge-up aileron tilts forward and vice versa . This horizontal lift component creates an undesired yawing moment that the tail needs to neutralize . This effect varies with speed , so if you want good low-speed maneuverability , this load case determines vertical tail size ( mostly of gliders ) . Dutch roll damping : Sometimes static stability in yaw is not sufficient and <URL> sizes the tail . Maximum flight Mach number : At high Mach , the upper side of the plane flies in less dense air and a traditional vertical tail <URL> . Here a ventral tailfin can help to reduce tail size considerably . Add to this the fact that the destabilizing effect of the fuselage increases with sideslip angle and the fact that the vertical tail as the higher aspect ratio surface of the two will reach its maximum lift first and suffer a noticeable decrease in effectiveness at larger sideslip angles . Now details like a <URL> are needed to maintain tail effectiveness at high sideslip angles . Finally , it depends which of the load cases is sizing your tail , and that can be determined by factors like fuselage length . Tail effectiveness for directional control grows linearly with fuselage length and for yaw damping with the square of fuselage length . If you want to fly the same tail on fuselages of different length ( like most airliner models do ) , your tail might be sized by a different load case on a different aircraft than the one it is mounted on . If you want to fly low and fast , it might be that the loads on the vertical <URL> that the efficiency of the vertical tail is greatly reduced . In that case it does not help to make the tail bigger , instead ventral fins must be added . Now you need not only to look at the best tail size but at the best overall tail configuration as well .
Smelling exhaust in the cockpit is not normal . Tell your instructor and squawk the problem . Bonus - turn it into a learning experience by arranging to be with the A&amp;P when he decowls and inspects . You can learn a lot about the engine that way . If you are getting a headache from this you may have mild CO poisoning . This does need to be checked out .
There is no single formula - the number of factors to consider are too numerous and the load cases are too diverse . Here is an incomplete list : Directional stability : Depending on fuselage size and shape , the tail must be sized to pull the aircraft into the wind direction . The fuselage is destabilising in yaw and the tail is needed to counteract that . Depending on factors like <URL> , some of that stabilisation can be <URL> of the airframe . In multi-engined aircraft : Yaw from <URL> . If one engine fails , the fin must be large enough to create an equal but opposite yawing moment to that of the still running engine on the other side . Multi-engined aircraft have a <URL> below which directional control with one engine inoperative is lost . In high aspect ratio designs : Counteract <URL> . When ailerons are deflected and the aircraft rolls , the direction of lift on the side with the trailing-edge-up aileron tilts forward and vice versa . This horizontal lift component creates an undesired yawing moment that the tail needs to neutralize . This effect varies with speed , so if you want good low-speed maneuverability , this load case determines vertical tail size ( mostly of gliders ) . Dutch roll damping : Sometimes static stability in yaw is not sufficient and <URL> sizes the tail . Maximum flight Mach number : At high Mach , the upper side of the plane flies in less dense air and a traditional vertical tail <URL> . Here a ventral tailfin can help to reduce tail size considerably . Add to this the fact that the destabilizing effect of the fuselage increases with sideslip angle and the fact that the vertical tail as the higher aspect ratio surface of the two will reach its maximum lift first and suffer a noticeable decrease in effectiveness at larger sideslip angles . Now details like a <URL> are needed to maintain tail effectiveness at high sideslip angles . Finally , it depends which of the load cases is sizing your tail , and that can be determined by factors like fuselage length . Tail effectiveness for directional control grows linearly with fuselage length and for yaw damping with the square of fuselage length . If you want to fly the same tail on fuselages of different length ( like most airliner models do ) , your tail might be sized by a different load case on a different aircraft than the one it is mounted on . If you want to fly low and fast , it might be that the loads on the vertical <URL> that the efficiency of the vertical tail is greatly reduced . In that case it does not help to make the tail bigger , instead ventral fins must be added . Now you need not only to look at the best tail size but at the best overall tail configuration as well .
The DC-4 was a totally new design in all respects , as can be seen from the planform diagrams ( wiki ) <URL> The DC-4 was larger , and structurally totally different : Straight tapered wing ( no sweepback ) Straight tubular fuselage , not the aerodynamic teardrop shape Round fuselage cross-section . The original DC-4E was going to have a pressurised cabin . The later DC-4A did not implement this but retained the circular cross section necessary for pressurisation . MTOW = 33,100 kg for the DC-4 , 11,430 kg for the DC-3 Four engines of 1,081 kW each , while DC-3 had 2 engines of 890 kW each . Tricycle landing gear instead of a tail dragger , as @Gerry points out . All in all a larger aircraft , designed from scratch , implementing more modern features of a later age .
For something like a movable camera in a gimbal , or even a gyroscopic attitude indicator , it means that it is physically locked into place so that it ca n't move . On the gimbals ( such as the camera pod in a predator , or other ISR asset ) that can mean the camera is rotated into a stowed position , and then a pin is mechanically moved into place to keep the payload from moving . This is usually done to prevent damage . For a gyroscopic attitude indicator , you can generally cage it by pulling out a knob , and rotating it to a specific setting . Again , this physically locks it into place so that it does n't move . This is usually done prior to shutting down as the mechanisms keeping the gyros spinning are powered down . This is to prevent damage as well as give it a safe position from which to start from when power is re , applied to the aircraft .
The simplest equation uses an assumed propeller efficiency $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ and converts power P into thrust T like $ $ T = \ frac { P } { v } \ cdot \ eta _ { Prop } $ $ The tricky thing is to get $ \ eta _ { Prop } $ right . Use 85 % for lightly-loaded * propellers working at their design point . And make sure you subtract the power offtake from the engine for driving the accessories , so you only use the effective power at the propeller , not the rated engine power . The equation only works if the propeller is in motion , so airspeed $ v $ is not zero . For covering the static case , please see <URL> . * The load on a propeller can be expressed by the ratio of thrust to the propeller disc area , made dimensionless by dividing by the dynamic pressure $ \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ . If $ T$ is thrust and $ d $ is the diameter , the dimensionless thrust loading coefficient $ c_T $ is $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 8 } \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Sometimes this is simplified to $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot v ^ 2 } $ $ Note that this definition needs the propeller thrust at a specific speed . A different way of expressing the propeller loading , which lends itself to using the easy to measure static thrust , is by dividing thrust by the disc area and the dynamic pressure of the propeller tip at rest , with $ n $ as the RPM of the prop : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n \ cdot \ pi \ cdot d } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ frac { d ^ 2 } { 4 } } $ $ and again a simplified form of this can be found in literature : $ $ c_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { n } { 60 } \ right ) ^ 2 \ cdot d ^ 4 } $ $ Generally , a lightly loaded prop has a big diameter and flies at low to moderate speed . While WW II warbirds are still in the lightly loaded realm , all large turboprops ( C-130 , P-3 ) are firmly outside of it .
The engine does not move , the air flow is only redirected . The method of redirecting the flow varies with the size , configuration , and manufacturer of the engine . The flow does not need to be directed completely forward ; the flow is generally mostly outwards and partially foward . This is still enough to create significant drag and slow the aircraft down . In smaller and older engines , the entire flow is redirected . This corresponds to the first to configurations below . Buckets or clamshell doors close over the jet flow to redirect the air . In larger engines , particularly high-bypass turbofans , only part of the air is redirected . This corresponds to the last configuration below . The core air from the engine still exits normall , but the bypass air from the fan is redirected . Since the bypass air on these engines is a much greater flow than the engine core air , this results in a net reverse thrust . There are multiple mechanisms , but the general idea is to deploy doors that block the bypass air and send it through the sides of the engine cowl . Turboprop aircraft just change the pitch of the propeller blades such that the propeller pushes air forward instead of backward . The pitch in which the blades provide reverse thrust is called the " beta range . " In civil aircraft , reverse thrust is only used when on the ground . There are typically interlocks in the system that prevent the thrust reversers from deploying if the aircraft does not sense that it is on the ground . Once the aircraft touches down , the pilot will deploy the reverse thrust . Some military aircraft like the C-17 can use reverse thrust in the air . This enables them to perform very steep descents . Reverse thrust is more of an " optional " method of braking ( see this <URL> ) , only to provide extra stopping power when needed . This particularly helps when braking force is less effective , such as in rain or snow . Before landing , pilots will take into account the wind , aircraft weight , runway length , and any contamination of the runway ( rain or snow ) . Based on this they will know what kind of braking force is needed and whether they should use thrust reversers . The thrust reversers do n't always have to be operational for an aircraft to fly . Some operators choose to disable them , which decreases maintenance costs . The thrust reversers can also break , in which case they will be mechanically locked to prevent them from deploying until they can be fixed . Pilots will consider this when they are computing their landing distance .
There 's no legal limit of how high you 're allowed to fly by law : there 's no law that says It is illegal to fly above X ,000 ft In some juristictions there are more specific laws , eg It is illegal to operate an unpressurised aircraft above 25,000 ft However , each aircraft has a service ceiling when it is certified , and it would be generally illegal to operate the aircraft above this altitude ( because it 's unsafe ) . I 'm fairly confident that you were n't at 55,000 ft. No commercial airliner I know of has a service ceiling higher than 45,000 ft ( the newer version of the 747 ) and they almost never operate above 41,000 ft. A few private jets can go a little higher , up to around 50,000 ft , but I know of no non-military/experimental aircraft which is currently capable of going much above 50,000 ft , even if you were daft enough to try .
No . The regulations that apply to a student pilot do not apply to the private pilot working on a new category or class rating . § 61.81 Applicability . This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of student pilot certificates , the conditions under which those certificates are necessary , and the general operating rules and limitations for the holders of those certificates . The required endorsements for a private pilot working on a new category or class rating are also different . Student pilots are required to have endorsements for pre-solo flight training , a solo endorsement each 90 days and an endorsement for each cross country . The student pilot must also abide by all the limitations placed on those endorsements by the recommending instructor . A private / commercial / ATP pilot working on a new category or class rating is required to have one endorsement . Again , any limitations placed on the endorsement by the recommending instructor must be followed . To act as pilot in command of an aircraft in solo operations when the pilot does not hold an appropriate category/class rating . I certify that ( First name , MI , Last name ) has received the training as required by § 61.31 ( d ) ( 2 ) to serve as a PIC in a ( specific category and class of aircraft ) . I have determined that he/she is prepared to serve as PIC in that ( make and model ) aircraft . Limitations : ( optional ) . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-19 Required endorsements for FAA certificated pilots are found in <URL> .
Aircraft incidents are an extremely remote event ( they say that you 're more likely to be killed in a car accident on your way to the airport than a plane crash ) . Within all the incidents that engineers foresee , some are more likely than others . These incidents are included in pilot training ( and passenger briefing if applicable ) to increase the likelihood that it can be handled properly . Loss of cabin pressure is one of them . Technically air pressure inside the cabin can not be " lost " , but the term is used to describe a significant drop in air pressure . The masks deploy when cabin altitude is around 14,000 feet . Cabin pressure is provided by two methods : The engine actively pumping air into the cabin The fuselage is sufficiently sealed to contain air pressure inside ( it is not 100 % sealed , but the pump is powerful enough to overcome the small leakage ) Failure of any of these two components would lead to a loss of cabin pressure . Historically , causes of cabin depressurization has included : Failure of all engines , whether due to <URL> , <URL> , or any other reasons Failure of all air conditioning units on the aircraft <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Any control surface changes both local camber and local incidence , so it would be best if you change the coefficients accordingly . If you use a panel code , it would be enough to change the local surface inclination ( = the flow direction at the local control point ) by the deflection angle . If you need formulas for the coefficients : A control surface with a cord length fraction d ( of total chord length ) will change the local lift coefficient $ c_l $ with $ $ \ Delta c_l = \ sqrt { d } \ cdot c _ { l \ alpha } \ cdot sin ( \ eta ) , $ $ where $ \ eta $ is the deflection angle in radians and $ c _ { l \ alpha } $ is the lift coefficient gradient over angle of attack of the original airfoil . The additional lift will act at a point between 50 % and 25 % of wing chord . The higher value is for very short flaps , the lower for all-flying surfaces ( technically 100 % flap chord ) , so a control surface deflection will add a torsional load . Drag will not be affected for small deflection angles , but when they get bigger , first drag rises and then the lift increase becomes nonlinear . If you stay in the linear range ( 15 ° with 30 % flap chord , 25 ° with 15 % flap chord at moderate angle of attack ) you can linearly add the flap effect ( offset the coefficients ) . Going beyond that in both deflection angle and angle of attack will need a reduction in flap effectivity which can ( in extreme cases ) even become control reversal . Also note that the aileron especially will twist the wing such that its effectivity is reduced at higher dynamic pressure . The details of this effect depend on the stiffness of the wing . Your example of a NACA 0024 is already so thick that it will not tolerate big flap deflection angles and show separation on the suction side . Good wing thicknesses for subsonic flight are between 12 % and 15 % , and the most extreme ones ( like the root of highly loaded high aspect ratio wings ) will still be below 20 % . Supersonic wing thicknesses are generally between 4 % and 6 % .
First , you have to remember on some configurations , the lower stages of flap will mostly add drag and very little lift . Sometimes that extra notch of full flaps is only there to change the camber of the wing to add a bit of a nose down attitude to help with visibility on landing . Both are items you do not require on takeoff . Now , when selecting flaps for take-off there are two things to consider : runway length and obstacles to clear after the runway : Runway Length Generally when lowering flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ ( the speed at which you become airborne , " minimum unstick speed " ) will decrease . This means a shorter runway for normal stages of flaps . As you continue to add more flaps your $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ will be lower , but because of the added drag , which decreases acceleration , it will actually take a longer distance to reach that lower $ V _ { \ text { mu } } $ . There is a sweet spot in-between , though . " Take-off Flaps " is not always designed to give you the shortest takeoff roll . Obstacle Clearance And that is because once airborne , the more flaps you have deployed , the higher the drag , the less excess thrust available , thus the less you can climb . Simply put , you are now flying at a low speed and barely climbing . Not a good idea if there are tall trees waiting for you at the end of the runway . It would be illegal to take-off on full flaps if : POH says it is prohibited , or For commercial flying , if the flap setting does not provide the minimum required gross obstacle clearance climb gradient ( depending on the type of operation and number of engines , between 2.4 % -3.0 % ) .
The <URL> was designed to provide a standard model of data exchange for things like : Aerodrome/Heliport including movement areas , services , facilities , etc. . Airspace structures Organisations and units , including services Points and Navaids Procedures Routes Flying restrictions The <URL> on the AIXM site is pretty responsive but relatively quiet . The data available through AIXM seems to be mostly European based but the system was not designed to be restricted to EU .
From the <URL> referenced by mongo , Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.425 - 121.475 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.525 - 121.575 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 It seems that these frequencies exist only to be silent space around Guard/121 .5 . No one should transmit on them , and you should probably hear total silence there . I think these are an excellent place to look for quiet space .
For a transport category airplane with 20 more more seats the minimum aisle width is 15 inches from the floor to a height of 25 inches , and 20 inches width above a height of 25 inches . § 25.815 Width of aisle . The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table : 1A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator .
For the first step try <URL> . Line of sight is an imaginary line that exists between two objects . Radio transmissions require a clear path between antennas known as radio line of sight . Formula : Line of Sight = √ ( 2 * height1 ) + √ ( 2 * height2 ) in Miles
Whether you have the ROW or not , it is your responsibility to " see and avoid " even if the other pilot is n't . This is the aviation analog to defensive driving ; call it " defensive flying " . There are no hard-and-fast rules for collision avoidance maneuvers . You basically have six options and their combinations , any of which will put you at a different point than you would be at the expected intercept ( collision ) point : climb , descend , turn left , turn right , speed up , slow down . There was a study conducted by students at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , results available <URL> , which might be helpful . The primary purpose of the study was to determine the usefulness of a computer traffic display in aiding the pilot to spot and avoid the traffic , but a secondary goal was to determine the most likely ( and safest ) collision avoidance maneuvers when presented with " intruders " on a collision course in each of 12 basic intercept paths ( overtaking , crossing , or approaching , from the left or the right side , and climbing , level or descending ) . Among the lessons learned were : Pilots ( CFIs were used ) were most likely to maneuver purely in the vertical to avoid traffic , moving opposite the vertical direction of the plane in sight and preferring to climb if the intruding traffic was holding altitude . Despite the pilots ' preference for the vertical , the maneuvers that cleared the " conflict " in the shortest time were in the horizontal plane , either turning opposite the plane 's relative direction of travel to move behind , or slowing to let the traffic pass in front . Pilots tended to do what was " easiest " at the time the conflict arose , especially if the intruder was sighted late ( because the traffic did n't appear on the computer display ; another of the variables they tested ) . Thus , single-axis maneuvers were most common ( not counting the use of throttle to adjust power while performing a maneuver , such as cutting power to dive or increasing it to climb or turn ) . Taking all this under advisement , the maneuver most likely to avoid a collision with another plane in otherwise clear skies is a level 30-45 ° turn in the direction of the intruding aircraft 's tail , coupled with a reduction in airspeed if the intruder is on a crossing or approaching route ( if he 's coming up behind you , maintain airspeed ) . If the other pilot sees you and reacts at the same time , his most likely move will be a climb , which is fine ; if he does n't see you or react at all , you 'll pass safely behind him at the same altitude hopefully avoiding his wake ( if he 's bigger than you ) . However , there 's some interesting game theory here . Any maneuver I tell you to make , except one , will keep you on a potential collision course if the other pilot reacts in the same way at the same time . As you supposed in your question , If you both climb , or dive , or speed up , or slow down , or try to turn behind each other , you 'll crash ( or at least get way too close for comfort ) . So , anything I tell you to do because it 's unlikely the other pilot will do the same will be self-defeating , because eventually other pilots will do the same thing because it works . The one move that wo n't result in a collision if mirrored is a 90 ° turn in the same direction as the intruder 's movement across your vision . If he 's on your left moving right , turn right 90 ° . If he 's on your right , turn left . If the other pilot mirrors your maneuver , worst-case ( an aircraft overtaking you directly from behind who turns the same way as you ) you 'll end up on parallel flight paths at whatever distance you first noticed each other . Best-case , you 'll be heading away from each other and after a couple of minutes you can both reverse your turn and continue along your original heading . But , this move is the worst thing you can do in several scenarios if the other plane holds its course . In high-offset crossing routes ( close to 90 ° ) , turning away from the intruder will keep you out in front of him and probably too close for comfort , especially if he 's faster than you ( turning the crossing-route collision course into an overtaking collision ) . Lastly , any formulaic maneuver we dream up in a two-plane scenario is going to break down when you add more planes , or restricted airspace , or weather . The maneuver may work in cross-country flight , but when dealing with merging Victor airways near a population center , there will be too many aircraft for any single avoidance maneuver to guarantee you 'll get out of trouble without getting into more . So , ultimately , your call .
ATC is , broadly speaking , required to ensure that pilots hear , understand , and acknowledge information that is delivered . The way they do that is via read-backs , and although the AIM mentions a few of the things that are required it 's a good idea to read back anything that 's important ( If you 're not sure , err on the side of " It 's important " ) , with your aircraft callsign ( No callsign ? Does n't count ! ) . What are some important things controllers usually expect you to read back ? Clearances ( headings , vectors , altitudes , transponder codes , and radio frequencies ) . Like the AIM says , mutual verification . Runway assignments , hold short instructions , line-up-and-wait , and takeoff clearances . Taxi routes Instructions , ESPECIALLY runway crossings &amp; hold-short instructions . Wake Turbulence advisories . Traffic point-outs . The magic words here , by the by , are " Negative Contact " and " Traffic In Sight " . I think if you say " Tally Ho ! " you 're required to buy everyone on the frequency a bottle of 30-year-old scotch . Instructions to " Maintain visual separation with " some traffic ATC is handing off collision avoidance responsibility to you as the pilot . They need to hear " Will maintain visual separation with " the traffic in question . They also need you to tell them if you lose visual contact . Airport Point-Outs ( Especially if there are several airports close to each other ) You can also pre-empt this by calling the controller : " Cessna 12345 has Podunk Municipal in sight " , possibly with a bearing and approximate distance . Landing Clearances If you 're in a busy pattern and they give you a sequence ( " Number 3 , cleared to land " ) they want to hear that part too . That altimeter setting you get after a handoff . ( I blame <URL> for getting me into this habit , but it IS a good one unless the frequency is crazy ) This list is by no means exhaustive , but it 's most of the big stuff .
AOPA has <URL> on exactly this question ( written by an attorney ) . Their advice is basically that it 's a judgement call on your part and one that you should think about carefully . Not calling may antagonize the FAA , but calling if it 's a major safety issue may be unwise : That does n't necessarily mean , however , that you should call the telephone number or respond to the FAA 's letter , and blather the most expansive defense you can conjure up . A little judgment is called for here -- and , unfortunately , there are no hard and fast rules . If you think the FAA may be inclined to just admonish you orally or content itself with administrative action , then a humble , cooperative approach may be best . Saying you wo n't talk without a lawyer , when the likely outcome if you do talk is minor , may only prompt the FAA to propose sterner action . Before you talk , however , think carefully about what you want to say , how much to say , what questions the FAA is likely to ask and how you 'll answer them . If , on the other hand , there is a substantial chance the FAA will take certificate action against you or will propose a fine , the best course of action , as I said above , is to hire an attorney . Do n't ignore the FAA ; be polite , but do n't provide more information than the bare outlines of what is already known and obvious to all . State quietly that you understand the FAA 's desire to investigate possible violations , that you take your obligations to fly safely very seriously , and that you will be happy to cooperate . Also say that , unless the FAA is not contemplating action against you , you feel it best to consult a lawyer before proceeding . Since the FAA likely wo n't give you any guarantees , its representative will be the one overreaching if he presses you to respond anyway . Politely decline if he does . I also had a look through the AOPA discussion forums ( members only , so no links ) and my summary of their comments would be : File a <URL> within the 10-day limit , whatever happened If you know what you did wrong and you know it was minor , then make the call If you do n't know what you did wrong then call but be prepared to end the conversation immediately if you have no good response or you realize it 's more serious than you thought If you know you caused a major safety issue ( actual or potential ) then do n't call and get a lawyer instead If you know the person you have to call - e.g. if it 's the tower controller at your home airport - then you should give more weight to calling In general , it 's better to call and have to cut off the conversation than not to call in the first place Whatever you say , keep it short and factual When you find out what you did wrong , get some ground and/or flight training from an instructor to address that specific issue and have him endorse it in your logbook ; this shows the FAA that you 've taken the issue seriously and you 've actively taken steps to make sure you wo n't do it again
Spoofing GPS means broadcasting a false GPS signal - This is harder than jamming GPS which can be done relatively easily by broadcasting a strong random signal at the relevent carrier frequencies . GPS receivers use GPS ephemeris tables which tell them where exactly they should expect each satellite to be . So the false GPS signal has to look enough like a real GPS signal that the receiver will accept it and use it 's transmitted data in it 's calculations . Of course , if , for example , the expansionist president of a country with advanced avionics capability decided to supply sophisticated equipment and the associated personnel to a separatist group in a neighbouring country , it might be possible for them to bring about this kind of result . There have been <URL> of this kind of spoofing actually happening , so it appears to be possible . The U of Texas students built a GPS spoofing device for about $ 3,000 . A pair of students , the " attackers , " then sat aboard the upper deck of the White Rose , where their GPS spoofer emitted a counterfeit signal slightly stronger than the real GPS signal . This was a yacht at sea , presumably out of sight of land on a featureless ocean . It may be more difficult to achieve this with an airliner , which have a variety of navigational instruments , including radio navigation beacon receivers . Inconsistent indications may alert the pilot to a problem . Non-GPS navigational instruments/systems that may be found in an aircraft include : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Do IFR flight plans ever get rejected for operational reasons ?
Generally speaking , the only reasons for which a flight plan would be actually rejected would fall under what you referred to as " errors or omissions " . But , the operational reasons you cite might lead to an amendment to your flight plan ( which the pilot would most likely receive as an amended clearance ) . IFR flight plans filed electronically are rejected by the flight plan processing computer if the filer files an impossible flight plan . I would presume that a flight plan filed verbally or in person through ATC or FSS would also be rejected for the same reasons , probably by the same computer , but with the rejection relayed to you through the third party . See these rejection examples that AOPA lays out in <URL> : If you plan a " direct " flight , point-to-point , follow the rules and enter the correct equipment . For example , if " / G " ( or " slash Golf , " meaning that your airplane is equipped with an IFR-approved GPS and a Mode C transponder ) or " / I " ( you have loran or VOR/DME and a Mode C transponder ) are not entered for these kinds of flights , the air traffic control computer will reject your flight plan because that route ca n't be flown with less capable equipment . and , File fixes that are actually on the airways that you file in your IFR flight plan . Pilot error causes flight plans to be rejected when the filed points are not on the routes that are filed . Depending on how you file , other possible rejection reasons might include formatting errors , a non-existent clearance limit , or might depend on the specific filing means ; I am certainly not familiar with all means of filing . I have filed in person with a sheet of paper when standing in the office at the bottom of a control tower , over the phone , and online , and over the aircraft radio ; I 've never had an IFR flight plan actually rejected . Beyond such reasons , a flight plan will typically not be rejected as such , but may well be amended . The reasons you propose -- traffic density , route issues , etc -- are usually negotiable , or are circumvented by amendments to your clearance . Certainly , these issues may present challenges , but they can usually be worked around . These flight plans do receive scrutiny ; IFR clearances are all about traffic separation , and this is ATC 's primary task . Understand that to file an IFR flight plan is , essentially , to apply for a specific routing for specific time frame ; you may or may not be given your requested routing when you receive your actual clearance . Receiving a clearance different from the route filed , or receiving a clearance amendment while en-route are both common . Note that an amendment need not be ATC initiated : the pilot can request an amendment , either before or during a flight . One final note on TFRs : you can sometimes ( often ? ) fly through these , even under VFR ; you just have to get approval . For example , I 've flown through the Grand Forks TFR while flying VFR with ATC approval .
Everything will expire one day , including our Sun . Flight recorders are no exception . Older flight recorders used magnetic tapes . They used to work like any other <URL> . At present , <URL> boards are used . These are considered much more reliable than magnetic tapes , because no moving parts are involved like magnetic tapes . Data from both recorders is stored on stacked memory boards inside the crash-survivable memory unit ( CSMU ) . A <URL> : ... is collectively the solid-state memory chips and a hardened metal container filled with specially designed heat insulating material . It is this container that provides the survivability , for it is able to withstand massive crushing loads , intense heat , and exceptionally high G forces , all of which is proven by crash survivability testing . <URL> You can see that the memory boards are inside stainless steel shell , which is designed to withstand the crash . Although there is a limit of writes on solid state memory , after a crash there are no more writes . When the FDRs/CVRs are recovered from a crash scene , there are various methods to retrieve data , depending on the condition of flight recorders . This process can take weeks or months to complete . Further reading : <URL>
After a new captain is done with schoolhouse training ( classroom and simulator ) they will fly on-line as a captain and will have a training captain in the right seat . After some number of flights ( for me it was a 4-day pairing ) you will be joined by a check airman in the jumpseat and have a line check . Once you pass the line check if you are a first time captain you are a high minimums captain for your first 100 hours and then a normal captain . During high mins time you are subject to a few restrictions in approaches you can fly . All the flying after the line check is with normal ( low time ) first officers .
How the Swiss Air pilots got paid would , of course , depend on Swiss Air policy . I suspect pay policies vary greatly between airlines and countries , but for what it 's worth below are the pay policies for the four airlines I worked for in the 1980s and 1990s . At all four I would have been credited with only the time from push back until the parking brake was set on return insofar as flight time was concerned , but as you will see that would n't have made any significant difference in my pay . commuter # 1 no union -- a straight salary but with an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it never did . commuter # 2 no union -- a straight salary regardless of the number of hours flown , but they never abused that . 747 freight carrier no union -- a straight salary plus an hourly addition if your flight time went over a minimum , which it occasionally did . 747 passenger carrier in-house union -- flight time hourly pay with a guaranteed minimum . You always went substantially over the minimum . They tried to get you as close as possible to the regulatory max of 1000 hours a year . Additionally , they had a policy that whenever your duty time ( as opposed to flight time ) went over 16 consecutive hours , you got paid for each hour over that at a rate of 1.5 times your regular hourly flight time rate . Also , you were paid half your regular hourly flight rate while deadheading . Then , if you had less than 8 hours ( I might not be remembering that number correctly ) between assignments , your duty time continued . My first assignment for this airline was a 32-hour duty day . I operated from JFK to AMS ( Amsterdam ) , so my duty time started at show time , 2 hours before departure . At Amsterdam 5 hours on the ground then commercialling ( riding in the back on another airline ) to SIN ( Singapore ) and then to CGK ( Jakarta ) positioning for a Hajj flight . Crew scheduling regularly abused pilots , but nobody complained because you were being so well paid when they did abuse you . The breakdown for hours at the flight time rate for that trip was approximately : 7.5 hours operating time JFK-AMS 8 hours deadheading pay AMS-SIN-CGK ( half of 16 hours riding in the back ) 24 hours extended duty pay ( 32 hours duty time minus 16 hour threshold times 1.5 ) So , 39.5 pay hours at the regular new first officer rate of 55 per hour = 2,172.50 , which looked pretty good to me since I had come from a carrier than paid me a straight 4500 per month salary as a 747 captain . I ca n't remember all the flight time/duty time details , but back then at least the international rules were much less restrictive than the domestic rules . Also , back then it was common practice to do things like scheduling a flight for , say , 11:59 for regulatory purposes , when everyone knew it would go slightly over the 12-hour international rule of the time . It may be worth noting here , that the mind-set of the crew , at least the cockpit crew , is totally different from that of passengers . The passenger wants to get from point A to point B , whereas the crew is simply ' at work ' regardless of whether they go anyplace or not . Consequently , at least in my experience and opinion , delays are n't nearly as frustrating to crew as they are to passengers .
Yes these codes are used . Only 7700 is used to denote emergencies , and usually only if you are n't in contact with ATC , or ca n't get their attention ( frequency is packed ) . Codes in this range are allocated according to the National Beacon Assignment Plan in the US . There are other codes that are assigned for various issues , 7777 as mentioned in the comments is assigned , and I 've assigned others in that range before , same with the 7600 and 7500 ranges . If you 're already in contact with ATC , and they have you tagged , it is very easy to mark you as an emergency and have it light up on everyone in the facility 's scope .
1 ) ADS-B will stop working when the transponder is switched off at the gate after arrival in Tokyo . Airliners use the 1090 MHz Extended Squitter variety of ADS-B which is the worldwide standard . 2 ) I do n't have hard numbers but I guess it is approximately 90 percent of the flights . At most economical cruise flight levels , ADS-C is mandatory . 3 ) ADS-C is a common system . For aircraft not equipped , position reporting of HF is the alternative . And soon space based ADS-B will be available as well .
It 's perfectly legal , but check the Chart Supplement ( or AFD , or instrument approaches ) to see if there are special exceptions for that airport . If it is a non-towered airport and you are n't assigned a runway , you should of course try to use the prevailing runway that is already in use by other traffic in the pattern when it makes sense . Some airports have obstructions in one direction of their runways that make it necessary ( or safer ) to always land or depart in a certain direction . Some runways have a steep incline in one direction , making it preferable to land upslope and depart downslope . ( For example <URL> ) It 's also common for larger airports to have preferred directions for arrival or departures in order to keep the flight volume high , even when the wind prefers other runways . However , that usually relates to operating with intentional crosswinds at an airport that has parallel runways in a primary direction ( allowing them to conduct more simultaneous flight operations ) , but not in the intersecting direction .
ATC is always responsible for IFR-IFR separation , regardless of weather conditions . That is their primary mandate , and all other services are provided on a workload-permitting basis . In visual meteorological conditions , pilots of IFR aircraft are also responsible for seeing and avoiding other aircraft . But for IFR traffic of course this is not always possible , since the aircraft may be going in and out of the clouds . If a loss of separation ( at worst , a collision ) occurs between two IFR aircraft , ATC would be held responsible ( assuming the pilots followed ATC 's instructions ) . If analysis indicates the pilots could have seen each other , they would also be held responsible .
<URL> makes some full motion sims that are capable of inverted flight and infinite barrel rolls . These sims fall into the entertainment category more than the training category , but they are full motion , in cockpit sims . I have also been in a similar type of sim at a Harris/Boeing sponsored party in Seattle made by a company whose name I can not remember that did the same thing . That one in fact was capable not only of rolls but also loops and could be pretty violent ( I wanted to see if it would spin ... it did ) . Here 's a <URL> of one of the Pulseworks models . They have some at the Udvar-Hazy center at IAD ( free admission , and a shuttle from the terminal ) . They cost a bit of money to get into . They are also often setup in pairs so you can go into a dogfighting scenario with the box next to you . Bring a friend .
The clock needs to be positioned such that you can see it easily as part of your instrument scan , and the sweep second hand needs to be there to make it easy to time intervals that are not whole minutes . The regulation has been there for a long time , so the requirement should be considered in the light of how things used to be as well as what they are now . A very practical example from 1969 follows . The regulation predates that by many years , I am sure , but the 1969 environment shows the need . You 're in a light single engine airplane ( think Cessna 150 and later a Cessna 172 ) . You 're working on your instrument rating in actual conditions in the Pacific Northwest in a non-radar environment . You 're in moderate turbulence and having to keep on eye on the icing . And , though it seems ridiculous now , we did n't use headsets but instead picked up a mic for each transmission , of which there were many because in the non-radar environment there were lots of reports . You 're inbound to the VOR on the airport , after which you 'll proceed outbound to the NDB that is the final approach fix . Once at the NDB , you will fly 30 seconds farther outbound on the Rwy 16 ILS , which by the way since you have no HSI you 're having to navigate by reverse sensing on the old VOR/ILS CDI with its swinging left/right needle . At the 30 second point , you 're to turn right to the procedure turn outbound course and fly for 45 seconds ( but maybe if that wind is from the east you should go for 60 seconds - better watch that CDI needle to see how fast you get full deflection ) . Oh , damn , the instructor just covered up the directional gyro to simulate its failure . Now your only heading reference is the wet compass , which is bouncing around in the turbulence , and , besides , you ca n't remember whether it 's going to precede or lag ( and by how much ) in the turn you have to make to reverse course for the inbound leg of the procedure turn . Ah , but wait , all you have have to do is fly a standard-rate turn for 60 seconds and you 'll be in good shape . So , thus far , we 've had three separate needs to time things to seconds in a situation where we have our hands full - left hand on the yoke , right hand for throttle , carb heat , microphone . Given all that , do you really want to have to keep pulling back the sleeve on your left arm to monitor a relatively small clock face ? Much better to have a larger clock face right in front of you on the instrument panel . Do we really need such a clock now ? Perhaps not , but it does n't hurt , and regulations are notoriously resistant to change . And does anybody actually fly procedure turns anymore ?
As long as you remain VFR then the equipment requirements for the airplane and the flight are VFR . § 61.57 says " Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device ... " . It does n't say anything about having an IFR certified airplane or having a current pitot/static and altimeter check . If you are maintaining SEL IFR currency , then all you need is a SEL airplane . MEL IFR , then a multi-engine plane , etc. . And if you are missing some of the 6-pack instruments , all the better for practicing partial panel .
ok two questios there really : entering vapp as speed constraint at the FAF . After the FAF you want to be flying a constant 3deg path ( or whatever the approach gs is ) . Changing configurations and deploying flaps while on final will make the aeroplane baloon and deviate from that flightpath . To minimize those ( uncorectable ) deviations , the SOPs will call for the aircraft to be fully configured ( flaps full , gear down and Vapp ) at the FAF when starting the final descent . By entering the vapp in fmgc at the faf you are basically telling the computers I want to slow down early and configure to full flaps before thr FAF . The fmgc will then compute your descent to allow for that deceleration segment . It 's not SOP as far as I can tell , just a gimmick people use to tell computer you want early stabilized . Switching FDs off Two points here : you are not switching them off at the FAF . You are changing them to a TRK/FPA mode ( usually 1nm from FAF ) to better control your glidepath angle durring final . Yes , you could use v/s to do that , and use trigonometry to compute the v/s required to maintain 3 deg for a given groundspeed , but why would you . Changing winds will change your groundspeed , and thermals will mess up your flight path . Setting -3 deg in the FCU is much easier . I can then set -3.2 deg if I get , say 20 feet high , and I should be back on profile in about 1nm . Second point : FDs will be switched off ( completely ) after disconecting A/P and at least at reaching minimas . Reason is the ap guidance is not certified to guide you after that so it is manual/visual flying using PAPI if available . Note : this is all about flying a manually-selected non-precision approach ( eg in NAV/FPA or TRK/FPA ) mode with AP on . Using a fully managed approach is a different story
The FAA 's <URL> : Is an FAA-issued pilot certificate required to operate a civil UAS under an experimental airworthiness certificate or a grant of exemption under Section 333 ? If the aircraft is issued an airworthiness certificate , a pilot certificate is required .5 Pilot certification requirements for petitions for exemption under Section 333 are evaluated on a case-by-case basis . The footnote links to this <URL> called Airworthiness Certification of Unmanned Aircraft Systems and Optionally Piloted Aircraft , which says : b. UA PIC Certification and Ratings Requirements . ( 1 ) The PIC must hold and be in possession of , at a minimum , an FAA private pilot certificate , with either an airplane , rotorcraft , or powered-lift category ; with single - or multiengine class ratings , appropriate to the type of UA being operated . ( 2 ) The PIC must have and be in possession of a valid second-class ( or higher ) airman medical certificate issued under 14 CFR part 67 , Medical Standards and Certification . So , it looks like there are two possibilities : Your UAS has an airworthiness certificate , therefore you need a pilot 's license per the Order ( private at least , not sport or recreational ) Your UAS does n't have an airworthiness certificate , therefore your section 333 petition will be evaluated individually and the FAA will tell you if you need a license or not
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
It has happened before . There are definite cases of light civilian aircraft landing on a carrier , the most well known was in April 1975 when South Vietnamese Air Force Major Buang Lee landed an O-1 Bird Dog on the deck of the USS Midway trying to escape with his wife and 5 children from the fall of Saigon to North Vietnamese forces . Landing aboard an aircraft carrier presents several difficulties , namely limited landing roll and available deck space . A Nimitz Class carrier is just shy of 1100 feet in total length and 250 ft at its widest point . The designated landing area or LA is approx 75 x 650 ft. The ship is capable of steaming at 30 + kts so it can develop quite a bit of wind over the flight deck reducing the effective unarrested landing roll . Then you need to stop the aircraft once it 's on the deck . Carrier based fixed wing jets use tailhooks designed to work with the arresting gear and reduce the landing roll to about 330 feet . The largest carrier aircraft in service were the Douglas A-3 and the Grumman C-2 and E-2 , each one about the size of a regional jet . The largest aircraft which I am aware of which made a successful unarrested landing was a Lockheed C-130 . Large commercial aircraft like a Boeing 747 or an Airbus A-380 simply can not fit on the deck without the wings clipping the island or other deck antennas , etc , not to mention requiring landing rolls of over 3000 ft even in the most extreme short field attempts . So HAS a carrier aided a civilian passenger flight via recovery operations ? Yes but only with small aircraft . COULD a carrier aid in recovering larger commercial aircraft ? Possible depending on the size of the aircraft , its loadout and fuel state and performance capabilities .
If the aircraft is subject to the ADS-B mandate of Europe , it will not be allowed to operate in European airspace after June 7 , 2020 if it does not have a certified EUROCAE ED-102A ( equivalent to RTCA DO-260B ) compliant ADS-B transmitter . Aircraft with a maximum take-off weight exceeding 5700 kg or maximum operating true airspeed exceeding 250 knots are subject to the mandate . The USA rule is a bit different , as it allows ADS-B on universal access transceivers ( UAT ) below 18 000 ft which is different from the 1090ES technology used in DO-260 . You can do without ADS-B in the USA after January 1 , 2020 , if you never fly higher than 10 000ft MSL ( exceeding 10 000ft MSL is allowed as long as you do n't exceed 2 500ft AGL ) , you do not enter or overfly class C airspace and keep further than 30 NM from class B airspace . If your aircraft is 1090ES ADS-B equipped it must be DO-260B compliant ; if it UAT ADS-B equipped it must be DO-282B compliant . The difference between DO-260A and DO-260B are many small changes . This list is not exhaustive : change in the way position integrity is encoded , addition of barometric pressure setting , new encoding aircraft length / width change in encoding of speed on surface Typically the update from DO-260A to DO-260B requires a firmware update and some configuration changes . However , note that the mandates include more requirements than just the ADS-B protocol version . There are requirements on the integrity of your position source ( GPS ) as well , and the maximum latency in the position transmission chain . In the worst case you are up for a rewiring of the GPS or even installing a new GPS .
Lightning strikes airplanes <URL> , and for modern airplanes , it is not a big deal . Although , to put a definite number is not realistic , as it is not analogues to how many miles a car runs with a full tank . On average , <URL> that lightning strikes an airplane once every 1000 hours of flight time . Although , <URL> : The frequency of lightning strikes that an airplane experiences is affected by several factors , including the geographic area where the airplane operates and how often the airplane passes through takeoff and landing altitudes , which is where lightning activity is most prevalent .
The short answer : It depends . Either 10 , 20 or 30 hours of simulator/FTD/ATD time may be used , but all of it must be with an approved instructor . None of it may be solo . None of the requirements you posted are related to simulator time . 50 hours of Pilot in Command cross country This can be done solo , as you are a rated pilot and thus PIC . This need not be solo XC and can be done with a passenger or CFI . 40 hours of simulated or actual instrument time In this quote , simulated instrument time refers to time spent in the airplane during flight in visual meteorological conditions ( VMC ) that you are wearing a view-limiting device to simulate IMC . While wearing a view-limiting device you must be accompanied by another pilot who acts as your safety pilot . Thus , none of this time may be accomplished solo . You will always need another pilot either in simulated or actual instrument conditions . 15 hours of flight instruction towards Instrument Rating This time may overlap with the above ( actually , must overlap ) , the regulation reads ( <URL> ( d ) ( 2 ) ) : ( 2 ) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed in paragraph ( c ) of this section , of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating ... Now back to your question , what about simulator time ? For this we look further down to <URL> ( h ) and ( i ) ( h ) Use of flight simulators or flight training devices . If the instrument time was provided by an authorized instructor in a flight simulator or flight training device -- ( 1 ) A maximum of 30 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter ; or ( 2 ) A maximum of 20 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was not completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter . and ( i ) Use of an aviation training device . A maximum of 10 hours of instrument time received in an aviation training device may be credited for the instrument time requirements of this section if -- ( 1 ) The device is approved and authorized by the FAA ; ( 2 ) An authorized instructor provides the instrument time in the device ; ( 3 ) No more than 10 hours of instrument time in a flight simulator or flight training device was credited for the instrument time requirements of this section ; ( 4 ) A view-limiting device was worn by the applicant when logging instrument time in the device ; and ( 5 ) The FAA approved the instrument training and instrument tasks performed in the device . The use of simulators and flight training devices is covered by ( h ) above , and the limit of 20 or 30 hours depends on how the training is conducted . In either case , note that time must be " provided by an authorized instructor " . Section ( i ) deals with lesser training devices that are limited to 10 hours but is also required to be conducted by an authorized instructor . Reprising the short answer , any time spent in a simulator , flight training device or aviation training device where you are solo or without an authorized instructor does not count toward anything . Sim time is only valid when conducted by an authorized instructor .
Simply put , ExpertFlyer gets its data from purchasing it from the GDSs ( global distribution systems for airlines ) these are the same systems that travel agents ( online and off ) use to book tickets/travel for their customers . This has a cost but has advantages vs free but less reliable means of acquiring flight data . Other services may screen scrape ( take ) information from public airline websites , however airlines frown upon that . We have seen active campaigns by airlines to go after services that collect data in this manor . Please note , this post is not meant to be " promotional " however fully answering the question posed requires explaining how different services may acquire flight data . Also , if the name " ExpertFlyer Voice " did n't indicate to you , I am a representative of ExpertFlyer.com
First , can a pilot without an HP endorsement act as safety pilot in an HP aircraft ? Since <URL> only requires a safety pilot to have category and class ratings , there 's no need to have any additional endorsements . That 's confirmed in <URL> : there is no regulatory requirement that a safety pilot have a high performance endorsement to act as safety pilot The same document says that safety pilots are " encouraged to be thoroughly familiar and current in the aircraft that is used " - which is great advice - but that 's it . As for the flight conditions ( IMC/VMC ) and rules ( IFR/VFR ) , I 'm not sure what you 're asking . Is either pilot IFR current ? If not , then the flight can only be VFR . <URL> might be relevant .
end question
start question
Why does the 1090 ES use the same frequency for both uplink and downlink ?
There is no uplink in ADS-B . The aircraft is broadcasting information which is received by parties unknown to the ADS-B transmitter . There is no reply and there is no uplink like there is in Mode-S . The receiving parties listen on 1090MHz for ADS-B broadcast . A technology related to ADS-B is TIS-B ( Traffic Information Service - Broadcast ) . This is used in the USA to transmit positions of aircraft that are not equipped with 1090ES ADS-B but are detected by FAA radar or UAT ADS-B in an ADS-B like format on 1090MHz . This allows parties listening on 1090MHz for ADS-B traffic to identify non 1090ES equipped aircraft with the same receiver . TIS-B could be seen as form of uplink , but uses the 1090MHz frequency nevertheless as it allows the same ADS-B receiver to be used .
The uses of the HP air of the pneumatic system are in the FCOM : air conditioning engine starting wing anti-icing ( <URL> ) water pressurization hydraulic reservoir pressurization The HP air sources are engine bleed , APU , and HP ground connection . The Bleed Monitoring Computers ( BMC ) do not recognize if the ground cart is connected or not . The BMC of the engines can detect overpressure and overheat and act accordingly ( check FCOM for logic schematic ) . However , the APU logic does not check for overpressure and overheat ( see below ) . Having APU and ground as dual HP sources can lead to overheat and/or overpressure of the pneumatic system . Even when starting an engine with external pneumatic power , engine bleeds <URL> ( no need letting the BCM catch an error for you ) . <URL>
Yes , increased maneuverability and redundancy are the main benefits of this layout . Another is a wider possible range of the center of gravity . In the video linked in Federico 's comment you can see that the canards reach high negative deflection angles in high-alfa attitudes : This means they will still operate in attached flow when wing and tail are already fully stalled . A canard-less airplane would only have thrust vectoring for control in this situation . Also noticeable in the video is the negative static stability which becomes evident in the lively elevator movements during the landing approach towards the end of the video . When you need agile pitch controls for artificial stability , it helps to have a second pair of them in highly dynamic maneuvers . The small size of the canards might be misleading : Since they will affect the flow over the inner wing , they are quite effective and powerful control surfaces . A multirole , long-range aircraft will have to deal with a wide variety of ordnance and fuel loads , so the addition of canards will allow to trim a wider range of c.g. positions . Without them , some load configurations , and consequently some missions , might not be possible .
Zeppelins had a rigid skeleton and several internal gas bags . None of them are still in operation . Airships today are blimps , that is , one big gas bag which is kept in shape by internal pressure , which in turn is regulated by <URL> . The only airships flying today are used for Advertising ( <URL> ) Military observation ( <URL> ) Sightseeing tours ( <URL> ) All attempts ( and there were many ) to use airships for cargo transport have eventually failed , sometimes <URL> .
This situation is due to usually 2 + sectors being worked . Each sector will use its own frequency when split . When these sectors get combined , one of 2 things will happen . 1 ) The controller will just work with both sectors frequencies keyed up and be listening on both and transmitting on both and have everyone go to the approrpriate frequency for the sector they 're in or near . 2 ) The controller wants everyone on one frequency and has everyone going into those sector 's that they are working to be on just one frequency . Frequency congestion and capability ( if the transmitters/receivers are different locations for the different frequencies ) are also factors .
The B737 Next Generation models ( 737-600 , -700 , -800 , and -900 ) all use a digital cabin pressure controller , which has AUTO , ALTN , and Manual modes . Older 737 's may use this digital controller or an analog controller with Auto , Standby , Manual AC and Manual DC modes . <URL> From <URL> , which also has a depiction of the older , analog panel . In the digital panel , the Auto mode selects between two digital controllers which swap every flight so that if # 1 is primary ( in control in the Auto mode ) this flight , # 2 will be primary next flight . The ALTN mode makes the " other " controller primary , so that if the primary controller fails , the other one can be selected . With both the digital and the analog controllers , the Manual mode gives the pilots direct control over the outflow valve . There are several reasons that this control is sometimes desirable ; none of them are particularly common . First , if you need to perform a ground pressurization check , the pilot or mechanic uses the manual mode to close the outflow valve and allow the aircraft to pressurize on the ground . It is n't common , but there are some checks that require it . Second , the manual mode is used to verify that the outflow valve DOES open and close . This used to be a check performed by the pilots , but ( in large part due to the Helios accident mentioned ) , it is now a maintenance-only function for many operators . Third , if the flight must be conducted unpressurized , the manual mode allows this -- open the outflow valve fully , and there is no pressure differential -- say if you had a damaged window that needs to not be pressurized while the aircraft is ferried to where the window can be replaced . Fourth , in the case of an emergency evacuation , it may be necessary to quickly depressurize the aircraft , and the manual mode allows the crew to open the outflow valve with only DC ( i.e. only battery ) power available . ( The automatic modes need AC power to operate . ) Finally , if both digital controllers fail in flight , then the crew needs a way to control the pressurization , and the manual mode is used for this . Getting to this point is quite rare , but it can happen . Controlling the pressurization manually takes a lot of time &amp; attention by the First Officer , so it is n't something that 's practiced in the aircraft , and because the really big cues that you 're doing it well or poorly come from what your ears feel , it is n't something that 's done in the simulator either . But there has to be a way to manually control the pressurization , so the Manual mode is it . ( Loss of all generators in flight could also put you in this position -- with no AC power the Automatic mode is unavailable . Again , an extremely rare event . ) With the removal of the outflow valve check from the pilots ' preflight , the switch is typically left in the AUTO position always , unless maintenance is doing their checks . More than a few times , crews got distracted in the middle of the outflow valve check , left the switch in manual , and never got back to it . The usual result was a Cabin Altitude Warning shortly after climbing above 10,000 ' ; if the crew recognized their error , they could simply switch back to Auto and continue . If they did n't realize that they 'd done , they 'd shortly get a call from the back asking why the masks had dropped , and that was usually the big clue that things had gone wrong &amp; they needed to go back &amp; land . One might wonder why the Manual mode is annunciated by a green light rather than an amber one -- the amber light would show up when checking the Master Caution . That was a design decision by Boeing a few decades ago , and I do n't have insight into their thinking there . ( Much like , why did they use the same horn for Takeoff Configuration Warning as for Cabin Altitude Warning ... it evidently seemed like a reasonable idea at the time . )
Landing distance is a function of the formula Any change that will increase kinetic energy will require longer landing distances . When we land , the kinetic energy needs to go somewhere . It can be converted into heat with the brakes , opposed with drag from the thrust reversers or deployed spoilers Higher landing speed will cause an increase kinetic energy that must be converted on landing and thus you will have a longer landing distance . Braking , thrust reverser or spoiler issues will increase the landing distance because they will not be as effective ( take more time ) in converting kinetic energy . In a hydraulic issue , most likely the manufacturer has chosen to fly the airplane at a speed greater than needed for a normal landing ( VREF + 20 ) and will most likely not have the ability to use normal braking . Most jets use hydraulic fluid to stop the brakes . In the jets I fly , without normal braking means we use the emergency brakes which are not routed through the anti-skid system so precaution must be taken to not skid the tires . This all adds up to a substantial landing distance penalty . Hare the landing distances for some airplanes . Learjet family : Factor of 3.15 Learjet 45 family : Factor of 2.2 Challenger 604 family : Factor of 1.7 ( braking ) times 1.8 ( airspeed ) for a total of 3.06
The short answer is that it 's what the market wanted . There is always a lot of discussions between the airlines and manufacturer 's before Airbus or Boeing commits to building a new aircraft . In this case both Boeing and Airbus came to the same decision -- the airlines were being driven by one single factor to replace their A320 or B737 fleets , they just wanted to reduce fuel expenses . That 's why the Airbus is the ' neo ' new engine option . The airlines made it clear that any new aircraft purchases would be based on operational savings and that 's primarily driven by fuel burn and the resulting costs . The solution to that is a new engine . Putting in a new flight deck is a huge expense for the manufacturers which would drive costs up and the airlines wo n't pay extra for something that does n't save them money . There 's no cost benefit to a new flight deck , especially when ( as others noted ) you have a huge investment in an existing fleet . In fact , all it 's likely to do is add costs . With a new flight deck you 'll have a huge increase in maintenance and spares costs due to the need for stocking more parts with new part numbers ( just adding a part number to a logistics system costs significant money . ) You 'll also need new crew training simulators due to the different displays and controls , whereas the neo option can be handled with software upgrades . And if it drives a need for new type ratings , that would mean more training costs and making sure you have the crews with the right rating at the right time . In my experience in 20 years dealing with this market , airlines only spend money for two reasons : It will increase their profit margins The FAA ( or other regulatory agency ) mandates that they have it . Aside from that , you should consider Airbus ' side . They 're trying to sell airplanes and they have to compete with Boeing . Since the avionics architecture is quite different between the A320/A330 and the A350 , moving to it would add huge costs and a couple years delay in entry into service . They also have to deal with the fact that airlines do n't want to see a big price increase . Prices for the A320neo and B737MAX are not significantly higher than the current/older versions . If the competition can offer a 7 to 9 % reduction in fuel burn for approximately current prices , spending an extra 2 or 3 years to match that with a new flight deck means a lot of lost sales in the interim . And you probably wo n't make enough margin to recoup the new flight deck costs .
Some countries do n't get the most powerful engines and have to use what is available in the market . To avoid upsetting China too much , the US would not sell the <URL> or the <URL> to Taiwan , and a derivative of a <URL> had to be developed . A second reason is redundancy : When the US Navy had to decide between the <URL> and what <URL> , they preferred the design with two engines , because losing your only engine over water is a much more life-threatening experience than losing it over land . Similarly , the Eurofighter was designed more for peace than for war - having two engines will reduce training losses . Generally , a single , bigger engine will be more powerful and more efficient per unit of mass , because manufacturing tolerances will be relatively smaller in the bigger engine , if the same technology is used for both . Single engines need to have more system redundancy than one of a pair of engines , so some of that advantage can not be transferred into the finished design . Nevertheless , from a performance standpoint the single engine fighter will look better .
There is actually quite a lot of difference between ARINC-429 and MIL-STD-1553 . They are different because they were developed by two different groups with different needs . Both started in the 1970 's . Before then there was almost no digital data of any kind on a an aircraft . It was almost all analog or discrete . The biggest issue was noise and interference of the signals . The introduction of microprocessors in the early 70 's opened up the option for reasonably priced digital bus technology . The MIL-STD-1553 bus was a major component of the F-16 . Like most military programs , this was a push for maximum performance . ARINC-429 came out of the Boeing 757/767 development effort . Civilian aircraft certification does n't like a lot of risk and the simpler bus architecture made it easier to design , analyze , and certify . Since then there have been a number of new buses introduced into aviation . Some have lasted longer than others . B777 introduced ARINC-629 and Fibrechannel . B787 uses ARINC 664 for the main buses with a large mix of ARINC-429 and ARINC-825 ( CAN bus ) as well . There are a number of data concentrators/converters on the aircraft to get data where it needs to go . The primary reason for moving away from ARINC-429 is that it is a single transmitter/multiple receiver architecture . This results in a large amount of physical wire . That adds weight and requires maintenance . A bus such as ARINC-664 , which is based on Ethernet , can significantly reduce wire . The down side is that it costs a lot more and is n't very efficient when all you need is a small , low rate connection to an odd corner of the aircraft . So you end up with a mix of buses . And B787 opted for fiber optic cable for the ARINC-664 network to reduce interference from high-intensity radio frequency ( HIRF ) and lightning . MIL-STD-1553 is a powerful bus , but it 's not as good a fit as many of the newer buses available in the commercial market . The military keeps using it because they have a huge installed base of equipment , it 's flexible enough to support their newer functional needs , and commonality reduces their logistics costs . ARINC-429 sticks around because it 's cheap and it has its own large installed base as well .
My experience transitioning from airplanes to helicopters and then to gliders is that I never forget what I 'm flying . I know that sounds obvious , but its no different than the difference between driving a car with automatic transmission and manual , riding a motorcycle which has all the controls in a different place than a car and <URL> , and flying an airplane . I do n't reach for the throttle when I want to slow down in a car , and I do n't turn the wheel in the direction of the turn when I 'm riding a motorcycle . Similarly , when taking off in an airplane , I know I have to add power and pull back a bit to get it off the ground , and in a helicopter I inch the nose forward to gain <URL> . The reason I do n't act/react improperly when flying different aircraft is that it 's all been trained into my muscle memory to do the right thing depending on the circumstances . I do n't think of the horn in a helicopter as a stall horn , just like the buzzer in my alarm clock and smoke alarm are not stall horns . The horn in the heli is a low-rpm horn , and I ease the stick back not forward . Another complication is instrument flight . Although I am an instrument rated airplane pilot , I have a little hood time in a helicopter . I 'm so used to flying pitch and power against the AI that all my instincts under the hood in the heli were completely wrong . Nevertheless , I do n't think I 'll ultimately have any trouble flying instruments well in a heli .
Day and Night for Pilots As pilots we often talk about night flying and daytime flying meaning when it is dark or light , but for logging time and for currency there are specific definitions that we must pay attention to . FAR 1.1 General Definitions Night means the time between the end of evening civil twilight and the beginning of morning civil twilight , as published by the American Air Almanac , converted to local time . Day is not defined in the FARs but the definition of night implies that it is the time between the beginning of morning civil twilight and the end of evening civil twilight . The Air Almanac is published annually on CD-ROM but you can find sunset , sunrise , and civil twilight times for specific locations at the US Naval Observatory website . The time between sunrise/sunset and twilight is 26-30 minutes depending on the time of year . Since you can easily find sunrise/sunset information in newspapers , the weather channel , etc. you can estimate twilight fairly easily . Currency § 61.57 ( b ) ( 1 ) ... no person may act as pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers during the period beginning 1 hour after sunset and ending 1 hour before sunrise , unless within the preceding 90 days that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop during the period beginning 1 hour after sunset and ending 1 hour before sunrise , and ... VFR Weather Minimums Only Class G airspace has different minimums depending on night and day and they use the standard night definition -- end of evening twilight to the beginning of morning twilight . Aircraft Lights Aircraft lighting is required between sunset and sunrise . § 91.209 During the period between sunset and sunrise no person may 1 . operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights , 2 . park or move an aircraft in an area of an airport where night operations are being conducted unless it is clearly illuminated , has position lights , or is in an area marked by obstruction lights . Aeronautical Experience Requirement In order to obtain a private pilot certificate night training is required . The commercial pilot certificate requires solo night flights . In these cases the standard night definition -- end of evening twilight to the beginning of morning twilight -- applies . Special VFR AIM 4-4-6 g. Special VFR operations are prohibited between sunset and sunrise unless the pilot is instrument rated and the aircraft equipped for IFR flight . Logging Night Flying Time Logging of night flight should be made in accordance with Part 1 definitions , which is from the end of evening civil twilight to the start of morning civil twilight . This differs from the definition used for night currency . Summary Position lights -- sunset to sunrise Special VFR -- sunrise to sunset unless instrument rated Carry Passengers -- 1 hour after sunset to 1 hour before Everything else -- twilight to twilight
No , Tower has final authority over which runway to use . Tower controllers have direct line-of-sight with the runway . Tower has better knowledge about equipment outages , obstacles and other special situations happening on or around the runway . Tower is the one who is granting landing clearances . They have authority to reject planes that are coming in from the wrong direction . The job of Terminal Control is to " pass " the airplane to Tower . From that point onwards , the responsibility of Terminal Control has ended ; Tower will direct the plane until it leaves Tower 's responsibility ( miss approached / on the ground ) . For example , a pilot can approach an airport with an published instrument approach , then circle to land on a different runway . The runway is located at the airport . Therefore the responsibility lies with whoever has control at the airport , not the surrounding airspace . The airspace directly at the airport belongs to Tower , not Terminal Control . Your concern of conflicting traffic is , to a certain extend , invalid , because they have been addressed by the airport designers . See , for example , the approach for VMMC : <URL> The approach begins from the South or South West . An approach from the East would have conflicted 07 approaches for VHHH . Missed approach requires a climb to at least 5,500 feet . That keeps the plane separated vertically from departing or arriving traffic at the West of VHHH . For reference , 07R approach for VHHH : <URL> You can find similar cases for airports like KLAX , KJFK and EGLL .
The slope of a runway is n't always constant . In some cases , for example , if you stand at one end of the runway , you ca n't see the opposite end , because the runway goes up then down . In this case , the ICAO ( in the airport design manual ) computes the runway slope as follows : the runway is divided into four equal segments . The average slope of each segment is computed and the total slope follows this formula : [ ( slope of 1st quarter ) + 1.33 * ( slope of 2nd quarter ) + 2.33 * ( slope of 3rd quarter ) + 3.33 * ( slope of 4th quarter ) ] / 8 The runway slope has a greater influence when the aircraft has a greater speed . Therefore , the slope at the end of the runway is given a greater weight . In the case that you mention , if you walk from the west side of the runway to the east side of the runway , you will go up a little , then down , and end up at a lower altitude than when you started .
You 're not wrong , but a fixed pitch two-blade prop has a pretty big advantage : it 's cheap . Cheap to buy , cheap to install , cheap to maintain , cheap to repair . 172s are predominantly trainers in FBO fleets , and cheap is the winner . The efficiencies of a better prop are lost when you 're just doing pattern work and short cross countries . Also , <URL> as it 's creating less drag . According to the linked Hartzell FAQ : Depending on the combination of [ engine power , operating RPM for the propeller , diameter limitations , design requirements , etc ] a 2-blade propeller may be most efficient , but as power increases additional blades are generally required to efficiently utilize the increased power . This means that on a 160 horsepower engine like the 172 is rocking , you are n't going to see particularly tangible benefits from increasing the number of blades . Going to a constant speed prop would , on the other hand , give you greater utilization of power across the entire flight envelope . For example ... An overhauled McCauley fixed pitch 2-blade propeller that fits a Cessna 172 is $ 2,100 on ebay . It has no moving parts ( I mean , aside from itself ) and is relatively easy to balance . A ( non-overhauled ? ) Hartzell 3-blade constant speed prop off a Piper PA-46-350 Malibu Mirage is $ 15,000 on ebay with no logs , which is usually a bad sign . It 's not a direct comparison to , say , the prop on a C182 , but it 's probably in the ballpark . It 's harder to balance , and requires more maintenance to make sure the constant speed mechanism is up to snuff . I was only able to find prices on ebay , which is n't the most scientific comparison ever , but it 's a start .
There are a number of reasons why pilot do n't use autoland all the time , even if the airport and aircraft are equipped with the right equipment . To name the two most important ones : Pilots need to practise their flying technique . If they would always fly autopilot , they would lose the skills to fly . Skills that they need when the autopilot does fail . There are phases of flight where it is better or even required to let the autopilot do its job , but landing is one the things pilot are allowed to and need to be capable of doing themselves . Of course autoland needs to be practised as well . Auto land requires very accurate ILS guidance . Even if the airport is equipped with calibrated ILS Cat IIIb equipment ( required for autoland ) , the signals will be degraded by traffic that is operating near the ILS antennas . Under low visibility circumstances , when pilots can not land visually , traffic spacing is increased and ground vehicles are not allowed anywhere near the ILS antennas to ensure the best possible signal quality . This is a standard part of the Low Visibility Procedures ( LVP ) of all airports . The downside of this is that the capacity of the airport is reduced . If autoland would be performed while there is no ILS signal protection , the effects can be <URL> at best or fatal at worst . Photo by BFU , incident report <URL>
As long as the vertical tail surface sits above the centerline ( more precisely the longitudinal axis of inertia - for now we can assume both fall together ) , any side force will also create a rolling moment . This is undesirable because now a yaw command will not only create the intended yawing moment , but also a rolling moment . If you want to yaw in order to turn , the vertical tail above the centerline will even roll the aircraft in the wrong direction , so you need more coordinated aileron command than with a symmetrical vertical tail . So the short answer to your question is : Terry is right : Extending the vertical tail below is clearly a benefit . This can be seen by the widespread use of ventral fins in combat aircraft . Adding area below the centerline helps to reduce the roll contribution of the vertical tail in a sideslip , which improves handling characteristics ( more directional stability AND lower yaw-induced roll ) . See the picture below for an example where the effects of additional vertical tail area are compared to the effects of a ventral fin of the same area . At supersonic speeds , the low aspect ratio ventral fin has a nearly constant contribution to directional stability , whereas the wing-like vertical tail loses effectivity in proportion to the Prandtl-Glauert factor $ \ frac { 1 } { \ sqrt { Ma ^ 2-1 } } $ . The small ventral fin of the F-104 raised directional stability by 30 % at Mach 2 . At high angles of attack , the vertical tail is in the wake of the fuselage which reduces local dynamic pressure and , consequently , effectivity . The ventral fin then is in ideal flow conditions , so it can help to stabilize the aircraft at high angle of attack , just when the fuselage contribution to instability is largest .
Proving that an aircraft is flyable with one or more engines inoperative is part of the certification programme . The Airbus A380 is certified under FAR ( Federal Aviation Regulations , USA ) part 25 and JAR ( Joint Aviation Regulations , Europe ) part 25 . One of the requirements of FAR/JAR 25 is that the directional control can be maintained when two critical engines ( that means under the same wing ) fail . The following is selectively extracted from <URL> ( JAR is similar , there are some differences ) . Emphasis added by me . Controllability and Maneuverability § 25.143 General . ... b ) It must be possible to make a smooth transition from one flight condition to any other flight condition without exceptional piloting skill , alertness , or strength , and without danger of exceeding the airplane limit-load factor under any probable operating conditions , including -- The sudden failure of the critical engine ; For airplanes with three or more engines , the sudden failure of the second critical engine when the airplane is in the en route , approach , or landing configuration and is trimmed with the critical engine inoperative ; ... $ $ § 25.147 Directional and lateral control . a ) Directional control ; general . It must be possible , with the wings level , to yaw into the operative engine and to safely make a reasonably sudden change in heading of up to 15 degrees in the direction of the critical inoperative engine . This must be shown at 1.3 VSR1 for heading changes up to 15 degrees ( except that the heading change at which the rudder pedal force is 150 pounds need not be exceeded ) , and with -- The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position ; The power required for level flight at 1.3 VSR1 , but not more than maximum continuous power ; The most unfavorable center of gravity ; Landing gear retracted ; Flaps in the approach position ; and Maximum landing weight . b ) Directional control ; airplanes with four or more engines . Airplanes with four or more engines must meet the requirements of paragraph ( a ) of this section except that -- The two critical engines must be inoperative with their propellers ( if applicable ) in the minimum drag position ; [ Reserved ] The flaps must be in the most favorable climb position . c ) ... ... d ) ... e ) Lateral control ; airplanes with four or more engines . Airplanes with four or more engines must be able to make 20 ° banked turns , with and against the inoperative engines , from steady flight at a speed equal to 1.3 VSR1 , with maximum continuous power , and with the airplane in the configuration prescribed by paragraph ( b ) of this section . f ) ... $ $ § 25.149 Minimum control speed . ... g ) For airplanes with three or more engines , VMCL-2 , the minimum control speed during approach and landing with one critical engine inoperative , is the calibrated airspeed at which , when a second critical engine is suddenly made inoperative , it is possible to maintain control of the airplane with both engines still inoperative , and maintain straight flight with an angle of bank of not more than 5 degrees . VMCL-2 must be established with -- ... ... $ $ § 25.161 Trim . ... e ) Airplanes with four or more engines . Each airplane with four or more engines must also maintain trim in rectilinear flight with the most unfavorable center of gravity and at the climb speed , configuration , and power required by § 25.123 ( a ) for the purpose of establishing the en route flight paths with two engines inoperative .
Bugs simply make instruments easier to read with a very quick glance . If I need to steer exactly 162 degrees , which is easier ? To read where the needle is pointing or just see if the needle is pointing to the bug which I manually set to 162 degrees ? The bugs are set by rotating knobs on the gauges . Here , the heading bug knob is in the lower right corner . <URL> The way I often use it is to turn onto the next heading required according to my plan , then set the bug to that heading so that I can simply glance at the needle ( still pointing to the bug , good ) to keep me on course . Other uses : If ATC gives you a " next heading " , you will read back the instruction , then you can set the bug to that next heading so that a ) , you do n't forget it and need to call back and b ) can simply turn onto the bug when it 's time to turn . Set it to the departure runway heading on take off . To " fly runway heading " , just keep the bug at the top of the gauge . On arrival , set it to the landing runway heading . As a " gross error " check . You would not believe how many inexperienced pilots set off in entirely the wrong direction . As well as setting the heading bug to " first leg of the plan " , you check this along with " and the road should be on my left with the river on my right " . On some simple autopilot systems , the autopilot follows the altitude and heading bugs rather than having controls for these settings on the autopilot itself .
They need the throughput . Got to use what you have . They utilize their crossing runways to the full under any conditions that allow it . Major commercial airports try to have as many parallel runways as possible , as crossing runways are a hassle . ( See DFW , ATL , LAX , many other examples of new or remodelled major airports using almost exclusively parallel runways ) . But sometimes ( for any number of reasons , a main one at LGA being space ) parallel runways have n't been built , so they ca n't be used .
end question
start question
Do pilots on approach receive automated warnings of sudden windshear or seismic motion ?
Windshear , yes . Seismic events , no . Most major U.S. airports have a <URL> -- Low-level Windshear Alert System , which is essentially an array of anemometers around the airport which detect wind speed and direction . The values from each station are processed by a computer that uses algorithms to detect a windshear or microburst event , and it notifies controllers in the tower . As a simple example , if the anemometers around the perimeter of the airport are all pointing toward the center of the airport , that 's a strong indication that there is a microburst over the center of the airport , with air descending into the ground and then spreading out in all directions . Obviously , the algorithms can detect cases beyond just that . And , many airports supplement that system with <URL> as well . Regardless of how they 're generated ( LLWAS with anemometers , Doppler , pilot reports , visual observations of blowing dust , etc ) , the warnings are broadcast by the tower controllers , rather than by any automatic system . In the aircraft , aural warnings from the GPWS ( reactive windshear -- noting changes in groundspeed and sink ) and the EGPWS ( predictive windshear -- returns from the aircraft weather radar ) are automatic , but they do n't block a radio frequency . Automated alerts over the tower frequency might block an even more important transmission , so it 's left to the controller 's judgement when to broadcast the alerts . ( They 're usually pretty prompt ! ) No airport I 'm aware of has a system similar to what the OP described for seismic events . I would assume that the risks to a high-speed train from an imminent earthquake -- i.e. the train may derail at high speed with catastrophic results -- are far greater than the risks to aircraft . I 've never read anything about what happens when you 're landing or taking off in an earthquake , but I 'd doubt that anything other than the most severe would have much effect . And if the earth is shifting enough that you ca n't keep the aircraft on the runway , well , it 's a really bad day for pretty much everybody in that state that day !
Induction motors turn at a speed proportional to frequency , so a high frequency power supply allows more power to be obtained for the same motor volume and mass . Transformers and motors for 400 Hz are much smaller and lighter than at 50 or 60 Hz , which is an advantage in aircraft ( and ships ) . Transformers can be made smaller because the magnetic core can be much smaller for the same power level . Thus , a United States military standard MIL-STD-704 exists for aircraft use of 400 Hz power . So why not use 400 Hz everywhere ? Such high frequencies can not be economically transmitted long distances , since the increased frequency greatly increases series impedance due to the inductance of transmission lines , making power transmission difficult . Consequently , 400 Hz power systems are usually confined to a building or vehicle . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Using TLAR ( That Looks About Right ) . Pilot turns off a runway onto a taxiway spur and sees the runway safety area lines and just estimates a point beyond roughly equal to or greater than the length of the fuselage and places the cockpit over that point . Other methods include geo-referenced airport diagrams on a moving map display showing the position of the aircraft .
The question you 're asking roughly translates to . The answer is " About 15-20 seconds , once the pressure bleeds off . " The FAA has a handy table for this : From Chapter 16 of the Pilot Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge . <URL> , or <URL> The Time of Useful Consciousness will vary depending on personal physiological factors ( e.g. if you 're a smoker your blood does n't oxygenate as well - you will probably have less time . If you 're a mountain climber in excellent shape and used to breathing rarified air on your climbs you 'll probably have a little more time ) . In the case of a non-explosive decompression ( say a pressurization system failure ) you 'll probably have more time than this from the start of the event to the point where everyone is unconscious : the cabin pressure will take time to bleed off . Whether that time is seconds or minutes depends on the nature of the leak . Presumably while the pressure is bleeding off the aircraft 's systems will complain about the loss of cabin pressure and give the pilots a chance to address the problem ( fix the pressurization system or descend to a safe altitude ) . Unfortunately the effects of hypoxia can start setting in before the crew realizes what 's going on ( which is one of the contributing factors in the loss of <URL> , which suffered just this kind of gradual depressurization ) .
Airline pilots generally arrive at the airport 2 hours before departure . Typically , a pilot will gather in a meeting with other pilots flying the same flight ( who he/she may have never met before ; but that is not a problem as there are Standard Operational Procedures which every pilot follow ) . They will discuss the flight plan ( including expected delays , departure / arrival routes and procedures ) , weather , review the loading sheet &amp; fuel etc. . After the pilots ' meeting , they will also meet the flight crew and have a brief discussion about the flight . Matters such as expected delays , transport of patient ( sick passengers ) needing medical attention etc. will also be brought out . Around 30 ~ 45 minutes before departure , the pilots will board the plane . One pilot will program the Flight Management Computer in the cockpit while the other will conduct a walk-around . There are " stand-by " pilots ready to takeover whoever is unable to report to duty at the airport . They can be anywhere and doing anything while on call , however they must be able to arrive at the airport typically 1 ~ 2 hours after receiving a call . Also , they must not consume alcohol while on call as this will invalidate their flying status .
The short answer is that at negative 2 G , the airframe limit for the A7-E , it took little effort to keep your feet on the rudder pedals . In controlled flight there are aircraft limitations on both positive and negative G. I flew the A7-E for the US Navy and have some operational experience that might offer some context to the question . I believe the positive G was limited to somewhere between 7-9 G. Ca n't quite remember the exact number , and it did depend on the external store configuration as well . Newer aircraft have higher G loading capabilities , although the human body has its own limit . Fitness and training can extend the pilots envelope to high G . As mentioned negative G in the A7-E was limited to -2 . There was no issue at these sorts of values keeping your feet on the rudder pedals . It is worth mentioning that the rudder is controlled by the AFCS ( Automatic Flight Control System ) system and so there is no real need to keep your feet on the pedals , although I did use them at times . Negative 2 G 's was hard on the body , and a pilot would come back to the ship with bloodshot eyes after undergoing maneuvers that required this sort of thing . I can think of 3 times that a pilot would find themselves in a negative G environment . I am not including standard acrobatic maneuvers , but more tactical situations . One , and this was n't typical , was during training . At a high altitude you unloaded the aircraft to -2 G 's and set a 45 degree dive . As the airspeed increased it entered an area on the IAS instrument that was no longer valid , and this was close to Mach . The goal was to observe the characteristics of the aircraft when it went supersonic . There was a gentle pitch down as you broke the sound barrier . I did this maneuver once , although I commonly practiced 45 degree dive bombing deliveries . The second , and quite common , situation was a maneuver called a bug out . A bug out was used by a flight to engage other aircraft in air-to-air combat . It was at once a defensive and offensive maneuver . The lead called " Bug out . Bug out , " and the flight went to -2 G 's , unloading the aircraft , and giving up altitude for airspeed . As your adversary turned towards your 6-o'clock the flight would " Pitch back , " and pulling positive G 's , gaining altitude . Trading airspeed for altitude got the aircraft into slower flight where its turn rate could be maximized . The bug out placed the aircraft immediately in free fall with military thrust applied . Rolling inverted and applying positive G 's is like being in a turn in the sense that the positive G bleeds energy . The third situation was a defensive maneuver . At low airspeed and with someone directly on your 6 o'clock the pilot might try to " jink . " Jinking was a last ditch maneuver where the pilot randomly pulled maximum G , and then went full negative G. I used this against an F-14 in a fight , and afterwards the pilot came and told me he could n't get a firing solution . As for uncontrolled flight there is the flat spin which can exert substantial negative G on the pilot . If I remember correctly a flat spin had never been positively observed in an A7-E . It was postulated , however , that given asymmetric wing loading it might be possible . On the other hand the F-14 could enter a flat spin . Talking with pilots who had knowledge about this sort of flight I was told that the negative G could be large enough where it would not be possible to get your hands on the ejection handle , either low or high . Not sure about the feet :) An interesting side note . At times a pilot will find themselves in a high g turn , grunting against the inflated g-suit , and fighting the encroaching tunnel vision . When I found myself here I would pull on the stick a bit more and watch my peripheral vision go dark ( tunnel vision ) . A bit more g and the tunnel got even narrower , until it was like I was looking through a hole . Then I would ease the stick and watch the hole get bigger . Pull back and smaller . Kind of interesting .
That is normal for an ARINC 429 receiver . The clocking for ARINC 429 is built into the transmission data , with the bipolar Return to Zero format having a Null for the last half of each bit time and requiring 4 bit times of null ( 0 ) voltage between labels . This lets the receiver adjust to the data rate automatically .
Yes they do , and <URL> they 're better than paper ones . All sorts of aircraft can have electronic checklists , from large airliners to small Cessnas : modern avionics like the G1000 <URL> and the older but very common GNS430 <URL> . In the US at least there 's no legal requirement to use checklists in any form - electronic or paper - with some caveats : They 're considered a fundamental best practice in aviation , so if you do n't use them then someone could argue that you 're acting <URL> Incorrect - especially missing or incomplete - checklist use <URL> ( see <URL> too ) so clearly it 's in your own best interests to use them properly If you 're flying for an airline then your <URL> probably requires use of checklists , in which case they 're mandatory As for mobile devices , there are already many <URL> and <URL> that support <URL> . In some cases the app provides a template for a specific aircraft type , in others you have to enter it all yourself . There may be some copyright considerations , but third-party checklists are <URL> so obviously it is n't a huge issue . Finally , it 's worth noting that many pilots - especially those who own their own aircraft - <URL> for their own needs .
The night currency requirements are in <URL> , which does provide exceptions for pilots flying for an air carrier : Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers [ at night ] 61.57 ( e ) ( 2 ) has this exception for part 121 : ( 2 ) This section does not apply to a pilot in command who is employed by a part 119 certificate holder authorized to conduct operations under part 121 when the pilot is engaged in a flight operation under part 91 or 121 for that certificate holder if the pilot in command complies with § § 121.436 and 121.439 of this chapter . <URL> has general PIC requirements for part 121 , and <URL> has recency requirements , which are 3 takeoffs and landings in the last 90 days in the same aircraft type , or an equivalent simulator . So part 121 pilots need three takeoffs and landings in type in the last 90 days , with no specific requirement for them to be at night . That 's all based on just reading the regulations , someone who 's actually been there and done that could probably add some more information .
From all that I have seen on that type of aircraft , there is merely a filter . If one was operating in a dusty environment ( eg the bush ) then I would add those to a 100 hour check . But honestly , I have never seen one clogged to the point it would not work . They are not suspectable to icing as there is a low pressure drop across them , and they get their air from inside the cabin , where there is not a cold mist . It 's usually rather dry and at low temperatures , it is probably heated . The alternate air is for the static port , which is exterior , and will ice up , although it is a rather infrequent occurrence . The altimeter , airspeed and VSI are not gyro instruments , and are impacted by the static port . Keep in mind that if your altimeter is not reading correctly because of static port ice , then most likely your encoding altimeter is similarly off , and your mode C ( or other ) readout at ATC will be off . In my experience , the Cessna models you listed tend to ice less than the PA28 models , but again , it is rare , even for weather flyers . And if it is happening to you , you need to reexamine your weather choices . While we are talking blockages , the pitot tube is the most frequent , and there have been times that I have had to remove a bug from the tube on the Cessnas . Let a mechanic do it the first time , so that you get some of the tricks . I usually use a straightened paper clip or a piece of safety wire , with a sharp hook , about 0.3 mm bent in it . That will help you scoop out the bug . Again , this does n't happen often , as usually we have covers on pitot tubes , but I have had it happen in remote areas ( like Central American hilltop unimproved airports ) so if you are flying to those places you need to make friends with your mechanic so that you can manage the lots of different things that come up . In summary , the vacuum gyros have a filter , and they do n't tend to clog often . Some of them are rather coarse , but modern ones have 10 micron filters or better . If you are in an extremely dusty area , they should be periodically inspected . For most people , they will never have a problem with them . ( If you have that much dust in the cockpit , then you will have other problems , including avionics switches , dirt creeping into displays , etc. )
Most airplanes have a POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) with a table on aircraft distances . <URL> .
The responsibility of checking the FMA after a mode-change is not the PM 's alone . If the PF calls for VNAV , the PM will select VNAV , now both of them need to check VNAV is active . Regarding aural alerts , there are already alerts to when the flight deviates from the norm , for example an altitude warning ( which doubles as approaching target altitude ) , stick shaker , low-speed / over-speed , etc. . But , your question is about changing the flight-mode , say from VNAV PTH to VNAV SPD , or VNAV to FLCH . As mode changes are a direct consequence of crew commands , I do n't see a benefit . One downside I can think of is that the ATC will hear a lot more aural warnings as the crew changes the modes while reading back an instruction . As for the effectiveness of such system , say in case the crew pressed the wrong button and they were too tired to double-check the FMA , they should n't be flying in the first place . The analysis of accidents and numerous scientific publications have demonstrated that operational stress and fatigue can result in pilots neglecting crucial information , such as visual and aural warnings . This phenomenon , called channelized attention is defined as being " the allocation of attention to a particular channel of information , diagnostic hypothesis or task goal , for a duration that is longer than optimal , given the expected cost of neglecting events on other channels , failing to consider other hypotheses , or failing to perform other tasks " ( Wickens , 2005 ) . It seems possible that this phenomenon might occur during the go-around phase which is often unexpected , uncertain and of sudden onset , and may take place after many hours of flight . ( Emphasis mine . ) That 's from a BEA study on <URL> . Too many alerts and any human will become used to the regular sound with mode changes regardless of what the aural warning says . Eventually it 'll become background noise . The ideal level of warnings is not to overload all the senses , and let the aural warning be when something is crucial , so the training can kick in with speedy recovery actions versus a relatively slow diagnosis of the situation .
Honestly ? It 's probably because they heard someone else do it , and thought it sounded cool ( or otherwise just got it stuck in their head ) . You 're 100 % right - saying the runway name is , if slightly longer , certainly a bit more informative . It 's the kind of thing that can help arriving pilots know which runway is in use , keeping later radio clutter ( " Um , uhh , Jeffco Traffic , um , say runway in use ? " ) to a minimum for pilots already on frequency . Even a ' one runway airport ' still has two runways ( 09/27 , for example ) , and it 's nice to know which one you should set up for when winds are light . The preferred terminology is more like " Jeffco Traffic , 3AC , clear 29 " .
The " packs " ( or A/C on the aircraft ) are powered by engine bleed air . When bleed air is extracted from the engines , less thrust can be produced . This may be a problem if the airplane is taking off at a high elevation airport or the departure path requires a certain climb gradient to clear obstacles . This action does create some discomfort in the cabin so it 's usually not preferred unless required for safety . Some newer airplanes are manufactured with an " APU to pack " configuration - i.e. the pilots leave the APU running during takeoff , which provides bleed air to power the packs . The workload on the engines are now reduced .
Windshear , yes . Seismic events , no . Most major U.S. airports have a <URL> -- Low-level Windshear Alert System , which is essentially an array of anemometers around the airport which detect wind speed and direction . The values from each station are processed by a computer that uses algorithms to detect a windshear or microburst event , and it notifies controllers in the tower . As a simple example , if the anemometers around the perimeter of the airport are all pointing toward the center of the airport , that 's a strong indication that there is a microburst over the center of the airport , with air descending into the ground and then spreading out in all directions . Obviously , the algorithms can detect cases beyond just that . And , many airports supplement that system with <URL> as well . Regardless of how they 're generated ( LLWAS with anemometers , Doppler , pilot reports , visual observations of blowing dust , etc ) , the warnings are broadcast by the tower controllers , rather than by any automatic system . In the aircraft , aural warnings from the GPWS ( reactive windshear -- noting changes in groundspeed and sink ) and the EGPWS ( predictive windshear -- returns from the aircraft weather radar ) are automatic , but they do n't block a radio frequency . Automated alerts over the tower frequency might block an even more important transmission , so it 's left to the controller 's judgement when to broadcast the alerts . ( They 're usually pretty prompt ! ) No airport I 'm aware of has a system similar to what the OP described for seismic events . I would assume that the risks to a high-speed train from an imminent earthquake -- i.e. the train may derail at high speed with catastrophic results -- are far greater than the risks to aircraft . I 've never read anything about what happens when you 're landing or taking off in an earthquake , but I 'd doubt that anything other than the most severe would have much effect . And if the earth is shifting enough that you ca n't keep the aircraft on the runway , well , it 's a really bad day for pretty much everybody in that state that day !
Lufthansa does . They actually prefer people they can train themselves , so they never learned things which Lufthansa considers bad practice . This becomes impossible if the airline grows quickly . Therefore , all the new carriers ( Etihad or Vueling , for example ) need to rely on hiring certified pilots . See <URL> ( only in German but speaking German is a requirement anyway ) . Thanks , Danny , for the link . Lufthansa has now adopted English as their corporate language , so I wonder how firm the German language requirement still is .
The FAA provides an <URL> I would say it falls under " aviation concern " . In your description if you include tail number and time they should be able to figure out who was flying ( or in the cockpit if its a 2 man situation ) . You can also contact your <URL> and report the tail number and time of incident . Aircraft owners/renters ( the people the tail number will trace back to ) will more than likely know who was flying a given tail number at a certain time so as long as you know when it happened you should be ok its not necessarily on you to know who was flying but the tail number and incident time is key .
No real reason other than it keeps people from bugging the flight attendants by asking " how high are we ?? " . It also lets the flight attendants know that the aircraft is at cruise so wo n't be climbing and making the carts harder for them to push around .
They are n't " almost uniformly sheepskin " , but they are absolutely uniformly flame-resistant ( or self-extinguishing ) as required for aircraft certification . Sheepskin ( and other natural wool fabrics ) are both flame resistant and self-extinguishing ( which is why <URL> are often made of wool ) , and sheepskin tends to wear well , so it 's a good choice for the two seats that will absolutely always be occupied when an aircraft is being operated . In terms of comfort , sheepskin covers also breathe well ( so the pilots are n't sweating profusely while operating the aircraft - one of the reasons they 're popular accessories for cars ) . Other popular fabric choices are natural leather , flame-resistant synthetic leather ( vinyl ) , and various other textiles which pass the FAA " burn test " requirements ( test procedures are described in <URL> for light aircraft , <URL> for transport category aircraft ) .
You just fly your profile . Initially its with an instructor , but eventually you move on to training by yourself/copilot . You can practice full autos ( to a landing ) , but some airframes practice to a hover or in early stages . In the TH-57B ( Bell 206 ) , you can take it a full power-off landing during training since it is light enough . However , moving up to the TH-57C you do power-on recoveries , where you run the twistgrip back up to full open while you 're in the flare . You then initiate the recovery to arrive at a standard 5-foot hover . The C model has significantly more weight , which is the main reason . In the MH-60S its all power-on , recovery to a hover . Except we do not go to idle like in the 57s , we just rapidly lower the collective to get the needle split . Same process in practicing your scan , initiating the flare , and then pulling in power at the appropriate height once you 've leveled . Finish at 10 feet with some forward speed . ( Rumor is that Army does full practice autos in their 60s , but never confirmed that ) . Navy prohibits it in the MH-60S and almost certainly in the MH-60R as well . The explanation I received is that the airframe is meant to absorb the impact similar to your car during a full auto , and thus full practices can structurally compromise the bird . Source : MH-60S driver
end question
start question
What do I request when contacting tower of an airspace I 'm transiting over ?
It 's the standard initial contact : who you are talking to , who you are , where you are , what you want . " Madison Approach , Cessna 123AB , 15 miles south at 3000 feet , request to transition your airspace to the north . " If it 's class B , C , or a TRSA your call will be to Approach and they will give you a squawk code and the local altimeter . For class D , there is no approach so call the tower with the same request .
Since gliders have no engines , they are often permitted to operate under special agreements called Letters of Authorization , which permit them to operate where other aircraft may not . These agreements may permit them to fly VFR in Class A airspace to capture mountain wave lift , through TFRs , through Restricted airspace , depending on the terms of the agreement with the FAA . In particular , in the airspace you mention near the Capitol , <URL> . This Waiver supersedes the TFR rules and the associated NOTAMs . Furthermore , it permits gliders to even thermal inside the TFR if necessary for safety of flight .
Actually , " stay in the pattern " is non-standard phraseology and should n't be used , even though it means the same thing as " <URL> . Specifying the direction is n't required but it is a good idea to ensure that everybody is thinking the same thing .
If I wish to downgrade my software 's design assurance level ( DAL ) from Level A to Level C , what do I need to do ? DAL level A software is software which , if it fails , may have " catastrophic " results , defined as " Failure may cause multiple fatalities , usually with loss of airplane . " DAL level C , " Failure significantly reduces the safety margin or significantly increases crew workload . May result in passenger discomfort ( or even minor injuries ) . " So , to move your software from DAL level A to DAL level C , you 'll have to reduce the responsibility of your software . Your software 's operation or failure to operate can not : result in passenger major injury or fatality produce a large negative impact on safety or performance of the aircraft reduce the ability of the crew to operate the aircraft due to physical distress or higher workload ( though significant increases in workload is acceptable at Level C ) At most , your software 's operation or failure to operate may : Significantly reduce safety margins Significantly increase crew workload Result in passenger discomfort or minor injury If you can change your software , or change your customer 's use of the software ( ie , can not be used or installed as part of a safety critical control system ) , then the certifying authorities may allow your software to be certified at Level C . What are the benefits and drawbacks of doing this ? There are only 62 objectives that have to be met , and of those only 8 have to be verified by someone independent of the person who implemented the code that falls under that objective . While the number of objectives is only reduced a little ( 71 vs 62 ) , the number requiring independent verification is cut by over 75 % from 33 to 8 . This significantly reduces the amount of work required to meet certification requirements , mostly in traceability . The major drawback is that your software can not be used or incorporated into systems which require a higher level of compliance . So if your software is designed to control actuators and is currently certified to Level A , you might find that it 's being used to control flight surfaces on some planes . The move to Level C may , in that case , not require any software changes at all . If you stop performing the full traceability , tests , and meeting objectives with independence at Level A , and only perform those necessary for Level C , then your release under this new system will necessarily only be certified under Level C . The software can no longer be used to control flight surfaces , but if a new plane comes out with electronically adjustable air nozzles in the passenger compartment , it may be eligible for inclusion there where failure would , at worst , cause passenger discomfort and increase crew workload managing complaints about air vents being misdirected or opened/closed when the opposite is desired . If your software is an autopilot , though , then it will never be used if it does n't meet Level A . In this case , there 's no way to change your software or process to a lower level and expect it to be used - the usage of the software defines the level to which it must comply . In most cases , the usage will drive which level the software must be certified to , and there 's no real way ( or reason ) for you to change your level . It would cease to be useful software at the wrong level .
I guess this will vary from airport and scenarios . Say if you are in a small Cessna on a little grass-strip : They will most likely always listen to you . However , In a passenger jet , on a busy airport : Things fast get a little more complicated . It is very expensive for an airliner to hold a plane , and even more to ground it . And it affects more people than it would with the Cessna scenario . If you tell , say the flight attendant while the plane is rolling down the taxiway that you hear abnormal sounds : They will likely misinterpret you as nervous and will most likely ignore it . But if you can somehow socially convince them : It is still the captain that makes the end decision about turning around . I do n't know if this has actually happened before other than in the article mentioned in the question . If there is something wrong about the plane : The captain will likely know well before you do . The engines have so many sensors and fail-safes that the captain will likely have the fault displayed in the cockpit before you even notice something unusual , and he will probably make the decision before you even reach a flight attendant .
The FAR section that you are looking for is available on the ecfr website : <URL> More specifically , it is <URL> The main regulations that apply are ( see the above link for the full text of the regulations ) : § 101.23 General operating limitations . ( a ) You must operate an amateur rocket in such a manner that it : ( 1 ) Is launched on a suborbital trajectory ; ( 2 ) When launched , must not cross into the territory of a foreign country unless an agreement is in place between the United States and the country of concern ; ( 3 ) Is unmanned ; and ( 4 ) Does not create a hazard to persons , property , or other aircraft . ( b ) The FAA may specify additional operating limitations necessary to ensure that air traffic is not adversely affected , and public safety is not jeopardized . § 101.25 Operating limitations for Class 2-High Power Rockets and Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets . When operating Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets , you must comply with the General Operating Limitations of § 101.23 . In addition , you must not operate Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets -- ( a ) At any altitude where clouds or obscuring phenomena of more than five-tenths coverage prevails ; ( b ) At any altitude where the horizontal visibility is less than five miles ; ( c ) Into any cloud ; ( d ) Between sunset and sunrise without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( e ) Within 9.26 kilometers ( 5 nautical miles ) of any airport boundary without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( f ) In controlled airspace without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( g ) Unless you observe the greater of the following separation distances from any person or property that is not associated with the operations : ( 1 ) Not less than one-quarter the maximum expected altitude ; ( 2 ) 457 meters ( 1,500 ft. ) ; ( h ) Unless a person at least eighteen years old is present , is charged with ensuring the safety of the operation , and has final approval authority for initiating high-power rocket flight ; and ( i ) Unless reasonable precautions are provided to report and control a fire caused by rocket activities . § 101.27 ATC notification for all launches . No person may operate an unmanned rocket other than a Class 1 -- Model Rocket unless that person gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility nearest to the place of intended operation no less than 24 hours before and no more than three days before beginning the operation : ... § 101.29 Information requirements . . ...
There 's no mention that I can find of " landing long " ( " landing deep " is sometimes used outside the US ) in the FAA 's <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . So it 's fairly safe to say that it 's an unofficial instruction ( assuming I did n't miss it somewhere ) . The main reason for doing it is to avoid a long taxi after landing , but I suppose there could be other reasons too , like coming in too high on a long runway or avoiding wake turbulence . The point of requesting it - and not just doing it - is that it may mess up sequencing at a busy airport because you take more time to clear the runway , with the result that the tower has to instruct the aircraft following you to go around . As my first instructor said , " once you 're cleared to land it 's your runway " . I 've never been asked by ATC to do it but I have been asked by the tower to " land short " , to minimize my time on the runway and let an airline flight take off ASAP . However , it was clearly phrased as an informal request , not an instruction ; something like this : N12345 Clear to land 36L , appreciate a short landing if you can manage it So I think the conclusion is that landing " short " or " long " is simply an informal way for pilots and ATC to make things work a bit more smoothly .
Helicopters are able to do something called <URL> if all thrust is lost . In a helicopter , an autorotative descent is a power-off maneuver in which the engine is disengaged from the main rotor system and the rotor blades are driven solely by the upward flow of air through the rotor . In other words , the engine is no longer supplying power to the main rotor . ( Look in particular at the direction of flight arrows . Remember there 's a lift vector coming of the blades as well in both cases . ) Basically , the collective is decreased immediately when thrust is lost for whatever reason . This allows the airflow coming through the blades to push them around , like a reverse windmill in a way , keeping the blades spinning . This also generates lift , keeping the helicopter generating some lift ( while descending of course ) . At the instant of engine failure , the main rotor blades are producing lift and thrust from their angle of attack ( AOA ) and velocity . By lowering the collective pitch , which must be done immediately in case of an engine failure , lift and drag are reduced , and the helicopter begins an immediate descent , thus producing an upward flow of air through the rotor system . This upward flow of air through the rotor provides sufficient thrust to maintain rotor rpm throughout the descent . Since the tail rotor is driven by the main rotor transmission during autorotation , heading control is maintained with the antitorque pedals as in normal flight . Once the helicopter reaches ground , the pilot will pull up . Since the blades were spinning a bit faster than needed for a hover since he was flying forward the whole procedure , he simply pulls up and levels out carefully close to the ground until the helicopter touches down . This being said , you have to be careful , since if you 're flying to slow you ca n't pull it off . When landing from an autorotation , the only energy available to arrest the descent rate and ensure a soft landing is the kinetic energy stored in the rotor blades . Tip weights can greatly increase this stored energy . A greater amount of rotor energy is required to stop a helicopter with a high rate of descent than is required to stop a helicopter that is descending more slowly . Therefore , autorotative descents at very low or very high airspeeds are more critical than those performed at the minimum rate of descent airspeed . This dangerous conditions are shown in a height-velocity diagram as is seen below , in this case apparently <URL> . <URL> Here 's a little video to get an idea of how it looks for the pilot : Autorotation is often time critical and has to be done right as there 's only one shot and as such is practised by pilots on a regular basis . All extracts in this section are from <URL> by the FAA , an excellent and very extensive publication on the topic .
See Chapter 4 of this IATA document for flight crew management of unruly passengers . <URL> In general , they will weed a lot of the negative behavior out on the ground prior to boarding by looking for signs of agitation or aggressiveness towards other passengers or crew . Should a passenger becom unruly while enroute , the following is generally done . Assess the situation and level threat : what 's happening ? who is doing it ? what are their grievances ? Are the legitimate e.g. . A family member having a medical emergency or trivial e.g. Passenger in 22B is drunk and aggressive ? If there are other than legitimate reasons for the disruption , action in taken using the use-of-force continuum : Physical presence - flight crew will be nearby watching subject . Verbal commands - confront subject . Inform them of both the airline 's and Law Enforcemnt 's zero tolerance policy toward their exhibited behavior . Inform them if they continue with this behavior the aircraft will be landed , they will be placed under arrest by LE on the ground , and that penalties for their actions are severe . Try to calm them down as well , but do NOT serve them alcohol , even if requested . If behavior continues , quietly inform the cockpit crew of the disruption and they will make arrangements to divert to nearby airport and inform local airport police and other LE agencies to be ready on the ground . If passenger has become so unruly that they are posing an immediate threat to other passengers around them , physical force can be used to restrain them by the flight crew . This poses a high risk and should only be done as a last resort to regain control of the cabin . If there is a federal Sky Marshall ( s ) on board they can assist the crew here as well . Restraints such as handcuffs and the waist belts may be used to immobilize subject until LE can take over . Divert will become urgent . Electro Muscular Disruptors - flight crews are now being equipped with and trained on the use of the TASER EMD systems to immobilize unruly passengers in order to restrain them . If subject 's actions pose an immediate threat to life and limb of passengers and threaten the safety of the aircraft and crew ( VERY low probability but it is is a contingency ) , deadly force may be used to neutralize the threat . Near as I know some Capt. / FOs do carry firearms as do Sky Marshals . I 'm not aware of guns being issued to flight attendants .
Please forgive me for asking if you are a " flat earth truther " . We sometimes get those numpties passing by trying to justify their theories ( especially the one about <URL> t to make sure no-one learns the secret ) . There have been many flights over the geographic South Pole , the first documented one being in 1935 by <URL> . See also the <URL> . <URL> , using a Boeing 747SP , also flew over both poles . No scheduled commercial flights over fly the South Pole since there are <URL> . Flights from New Zealand to South Africa would fly over Antarctica but no airline currently flies that route . As to problems with the compass , modern aircraft have no problems since the primary navigation source is GPS . If you were using a compass only , as you got close to the magnetic South pole ( remember , this is not even in Antarctica ) , the compass would become increasingly unreliable . Simply maintain a straight course though , over the pole , and the compass will become increasingly reliable . However , navigating over the magnetic poles using only a compass is the preserve of explorers and the fool-hardy . <URL> regarding navigation . It talks mainly about the North magnetic pole but is applicable to both . A couple of other considerations when asking about commercial flights is the need for <URL> and the need to carry special survival equipment when flying south of latitude 72 degrees which is very considerable and would require the removal of revenue seats to carry it . There is a big difference between the nearest suitable diversion airport flying over the Arctic and flying over the Antarctic .
The Class C outer area is the airspace surrounding Class C airspace out to 20nm , and from the lower limit of radar coverage to the top of the controller 's airspace . The outer area is not charted , although you can see in the white boxes ( in the chart below ) adjacent to Class C airports that you can initiate communication within 20nm . ATC offers Class C services ( e.g. , flight following ) on a workload-permitting basis to participating aircraft operating in the outer area , and aircraft in 2-way radio communication will receive IFR/VFR aircraft separation services . So you can think of Class C airspace as 3 concentric rings : the 20nm outer area , the 10nm shelf area , and the 5nm surface area . Source <URL>
When a US registered pilot is operating in international airspace , he is bound by both the US aviation regulations ( 14 CFR ) and ICAO Annex 2 , as required by 14 CFR 91.703 . It also requires compliance with MNPS and RVSM airspace rules where appropriate . Sec . 91.703 - Operations of civil aircraft of U.S. registry outside of the United States . ( a ) Each person operating a civil aircraft of U.S. registry outside of the United States shall -- ( 1 ) When over the high seas , comply with annex 2 ( Rules of the Air ) to the Convention on International Civil Aviation and with Secs . 91.117 ( c ) , 91.127 , 91.129 , and 91.131 ; ( 2 ) When within a foreign country , comply with the regulations relating to the flight and maneuver of aircraft there in force ; [ ( 3 ) Except for Sec . Sec . 91.117 ( a ) , 91.307 ( b ) , 91.309 , 91.323 , and 91.711 , comply with this part so far as it is not inconsistent with applicable regulations of the foreign country where the aircraft is operated or annex 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation ; and ] ( 4 ) When operating within airspace designated as Minimum Navigation Performance Specifications ( MNPS ) airspace , comply with Sec . 91.705 . When operating within airspace designated as Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum ( RVSM ) airspace , comply with Sec . 91.706 . ( b ) Annex 2 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation , Ninth Edition -- July 1990 , with Amendments through Amendment 32 effective February 19 , 1996 , to which reference is made in this part , is incorporated into this part and made a part hereof as provided in 5 U.S.C. Sec . 552 and pursuant to 1 CFR part 51 . Annex 2 ( including a complete historic file of changes thereto ) is available for public inspection at the Rules Docket , AGC-200 , Federal Aviation Administration , 800 Independence Avenue SW. , Washington , DC 20591 ; or at the Office of the Federal Register , 800 North Capitol Street , NW. , Suite 700 , Washington , DC . In addition , Annex 2 may be purchased from the International Civil Aviation Organization ( Attention : Distribution Officer ) , P.O. Box 400 , Succursale , Place de L'Aviation Internationale , 1000 Sherbrooke Street West , Montreal , Quebec , Canada H3A 2R2 . <URL> explains it in plain language : International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) ICAO is an agency of the United Nations that originated from the signing of the Convention on International Civil Aviation in December 1944 ( referred to as the Chicago Convention ) . This organization was formed to promote the safe and orderly development of international civil aviation . The Chicago Convention produced International Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) aimed at standardizing international civil aviation operational practices and services . Currently , these SARP 's are contained in 18 annexes to the Chicago Convention . In particular , Annex 2 , Rules of the Air , and Annex 11 , Air Traffic Services , are pertinent to this paper as they relate to civil aircraft operations , the establishment of airspace , and air traffic control ( ATC ) services in international airspace . Although not addressed in this paper , it should be noted that the SARP 's are augmented by various ICAO documents containing Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) that amplify the basic principles in the SARP 's . Further , to supplement the worldwide procedures contained in the annexes and PANS , ICAO develops Regional Supplementary Procedures , which are part of the Air Navigation Plans agreed upon to meet the needs of specific geographical areas . Two articles of the Chicago Convention also have a bearing on the subject of this paper : Article 3 : Exempts state-owned aircraft ( which includes military aircraft ) from the provisions of Annex 11 and its Standards and Recommended Practices . ( Note : As an ICAO Contracting State , the U.S. has agreed that its state aircraft will be operated in international airspace with due regard for the safety of civil aircraft . ) Article 12 : Obligates each ICAO Contracting State to adopt measures to insure that persons operating an aircraft within its territory shall comply with that state 's air traffic rules ; or with Annex 2 , Rules of the Air , when operating over the high seas . The U.S. satisfied this responsibility through Title 14 , Code of Federal Regulations ( CFR ) Part 91 which requires that operators of aircraft comply with U.S. operating rules when in the U.S. , and that U.S.-registered aircraft comply with Annex 2 when over the high seas ( see section 91.703 ) . However , section 91.703 applies only to civil aircraft , and state aircraft operating outside the U.S. are only subject to the " due regard " provisions of Article 3 of the Convention . Under ICAO agreements , the SARP 's in Annex 11 apply to airspace under the jurisdiction of a contracting state which has accepted the responsibility of providing air traffic services
AOPA has a <URL> about this , and it basically says : Since you failed the oral , more studying is probably in order . You will need to receive training in the area ( s ) of the checkride that you failed from a flight instructor . Once the flight instructor feels that you are proficient and able to pass the checkride , they will sign your logbook so that you may take it again . Schedule your checkride again . If you take it within 60 days , you will only need to test on the areas that you failed . After 60 days you have to take the entire checkride over again . Take your Notice of Disapproval ( 8060-5 ) with you to the checkride ( you did n't burn it did you ?? ) Like the article says , it is n't the end of the world ! About 20 % of first time applicants fail their checkride , but all you have to do is use it as a learning experience and let it make you an even better pilot . If you have questions about specific subjects , you can also ask questions here and we will be happy to help you out !
The " departure cable " refers to an arresting gear cable on the departure end of the runway , similar to the one used for landing on aircraft carriers . Airports that often have fighter jet traffic may have an arresting system installed near each end of the runway . Fighter jets tend to take off and land at higher speeds than other aircraft , and do n't have the same braking power that other jets do . The speed brakes may not provide substantial drag , and the engines typically do not have reverse thrust capability . Since there is more room on a runway than on an aircraft carrier , land-based systems take more distance to stop aircraft . <URL> , but is useful to have in certain situations . For normal landings or aborted takeoffs , the system on the departure end will be used to prevent a runway overrun . If an aircraft needs to make an emergency landing , it will use the system closest to the approach threshold . Some cable systems are able to retract into a recess in the runway when not in use , <URL> . When the system is deployed in normal use , the tower will advise aircraft that the departure end cable is up . The departing aircraft will generally be in the air by the time it reaches the cable , but in case of a late rotation or aborted takeoff , the pilots can anticipate running over the cable . Arresting gear is indicated on the FAA airport diagram as follows : <URL> The cable is marked by <URL> on the runway . Source : Google Maps
In general , aircraft are handed over on frequency to the next controller via a simple instruction to change the frequency : R : " Lufthansa One Two Tree , contact Langen Radar 128.550 " A : " Contact 128.550 , Lufthansa One Two Tree " The simplified order of contacted stations for a commercial flight , depending on availability and airspace structure is : Delivery ( if available ) Apron/Ground ( if available ) Tower Departure ( if available , sometimes handled by Approach ) Enroute ACC/Center ( multiple stations along the route ) Arrival/Approach Director ( if available / in use ) Tower Ground ( if available ) The point and altitude or flightlevel where the handoff is initiated is agreed upon in Letters of Agreement between the different sectors or ACC/ARTCC stations . <URL> ( Source : SentryRaven - Own Work ) The above picture shows the airspace around Köln / Bonn ( EDDK ) Airport , with the Köln Arrival East ( KAE ) sector being actively displayed in black . The STAR entry / clearance limit fixes are GULKO and KOPAG , in the east . Most traffic not arriving via NOR VOR in the west will terminate at these two fixes , which also serve as the handoff fix between the center controller ( Paderborn High , Taunus and/or Rhein Radar Upper Control ) and the arrival controller responsible for Köln East Sector . The Letter of Agreement between those sectors states that traffic arriving to Köln / Bonn via GULKO and KOPAG is to be cleared to FL100 and cleared for the respective STAR out of GULKO or KOPAG . The handoff is initiated approaching FL100 and approaching the entry fix , before the sector boundary . The handoff is therefore based on airspace structure and sector boundaries , not on a preset distance from the airport . While arrivals from the east are handed off at FL100 over GULKO and KOPAG , arrivals from the west at NOR VOR are handed off at FL140-FL170 . Landing and Take-Off clearances are issued by the Tower controller , as the approach controller is not necessarily based at the same airport but in most cases in a remote facility together with other approach and center controllers . They have no visibility of the airport and can thus not issue these clearances . The handoff to Tower usually happens when the aircraft is established on the final approach segment of the published approach ( usually after passing the Final Approach Fix ( FAF ) ) or a visual approach to the runway . The phraseology is the same as above : R : " Germanwings Two Six Alpha , contact Tower 124.975 " A : " 124.975 , Germanwings Two Six Alpha "
Since the aircraft is not grounded , the physics are the same as with a bird which lands on a high-voltage line . The aircraft 's skin will be charged , but very little current will be induced in internal parts in the process . The outer skin will act as a <URL> and protect the inner parts from the electric field . This is greatly helped by a metal structure . Composite aircraft parts need a copper mesh over all external surfaces to give them sufficient electrical conductivity . The terminals of that mesh must be connected to the metal parts of the structure to make sure that all parts will have the same electrical potential in case of lightning strike . However , the ionized air caused by lightning will leave burn marks on the surface , and an inspection of the affected part and the electrical equipment is advisable .
For the first step try <URL> . Line of sight is an imaginary line that exists between two objects . Radio transmissions require a clear path between antennas known as radio line of sight . Formula : Line of Sight = √ ( 2 * height1 ) + √ ( 2 * height2 ) in Miles
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
The expression " sound barrier " was created maybe 70 years ago when approaching the speed of sound made aircraft react in unanticipated ways . Actually , there is no fixed barrier , and in reality the transition can be rather smooth , provided the aircraft and its pilot are prepared for it . The speed of sound is the maximum speed with which small pressure changes will propagate through a medium , so at subsonic speed the air ahead of the aircraft can react to the approaching aircraft . Pressure and speed will change smoothly while air flows around the aircraft . As a consequence , the center of local pressure changes ( its lift force ) acts at around one quarter of chord , such that the aircraft is balanced when its center of gravity is at the same location . At supersonic speeds , the air will be taken by surprise - at one moment all was calm and quiet , and suddenly the air molecules get kicked around by an unknown intruder . Pressure changes suddenly , through a shock , so instead of a smooth transition , at supersonic speed there are regions of similar pressure , separated by sudden drops or jumps . As a consequence , the center of pressure changes shifts backwards to 50 % of chord . If the center of gravity remains at a quarter chord , the consequence is a strong pitch-down moment : The aircraft will nosedive . To make matters worse , a control surface deflection , which could redistribute the lift between wing and tail surface , will not necessarily work in the same way as it would at subsonic speed : the aircraft might become uncontrollable . See <URL> for a mode detailed explanation . The cone you see in the right picture is a Mach cone , which would be caused by a supersonic aircraft . The picture was shamelessly copied from <URL> . The trick is now to give the air some advance warning where it counts , even when the aircraft travels at supersonic speed . This can be achieved with wing sweep , because if the sweep angle is larger than the cone angle in which pressure changes will propagate at supersonic flight speed , the air flowing over the wing will be forewarned , thus reacting similarly to subsonic flow . To correct for the inevitable shift in the center of pressure , the tail surfaces are bigger and full-flying in supersonic aircraft , so they work in trans - and supersonic flow . Also , by pumping fuel , the center of gravity can be shifted backwards , so less trim change is needed . The sound barrier can be broken at any altitude , if the aircraft has a sufficiently powerful engine and is stiff enough . Normally , to save weight , the designers set a limit for maximum dynamic pressure ( = air density times air speed squared ) , so the structural deformation at this maximum dynamic pressure is small enough . Note that the deflection of its ailerons will deform the wing of the <URL> at maximum dynamic pressure to an extent that three quarters of aileron effectiveness is lost - the ailerons cause a twisting moment which warps the wing such that it works like the wing warping mechanism in the Wright Flyer , only in opposite direction to the aileron input . Since density drops with increasing altitude , the same dynamic pressure is reached at higher speed , allowing aircraft to fly faster the higher they fly . The next limit is given by the local heat near the stagnation line . If air is decelerated , its temperature will <URL> . The maximum speed of the <URL> was reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to avoid overheating the sensitive composite wing structure .
Obviously , putting publically-accessible areas within an airport 's apron , taxiways , or runway environments is normally avoided as much as possible . However , sometimes space constraints do n't give you another option . As Federico mentioned in a comment , <URL> is a famous example of this . A major city street runs right through the center of the runway : Gibraltar International Airport 's runway with traffic on the street stopped for BA aircraft In this case , the runway runs the entire width of the peninsula . Obviously , they had to allow traffic to pass back and forth from one side to the other somehow , so one of the main city streets passes right through the middle of the runway and they just stop traffic on the street when the runway is in use . Of course , another way to solve this problem is to do what <URL> and <URL> ( and probably several others ) have done and just send the road through a tunnel under the runway . I 'm not sure how feasible that would be at Gibraltar 's low elevation , though ( i.e. might have water problems in the tunnel . ) Murfreesboro Road passing underneath Runway 2C/20C , Nashville International Airport Interstate 285 passing underneath Runway 10/28 , Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport I would expect that the main reason where you have situations like the one in Gibraltar is probably economics . For low-traffic airports , it 's a lot easier to just stop the traffic than to build a big tunnel capable of supporting a large aircraft . For higher-traffic airports ( like Nashville and , especially , Atlanta , ) though , the tunnel is required as there are flights landing or taking off constantly ( not to mention the security and safety risks of having cars driving around within the airport . ) According to <URL> , Gibraltar International only has about 10 flights per day ( 3,564 total in 2013 , ) so it 's manageable to just close the road when the runway is in use . I expect other airports with these sorts of crossings will be similarly low-traffic airports ( or , at least , a low-traffic part of the airport . )
end question
start question
Is any single-axis autopilot for a light piston single certified for unusual-attitude recovery ?
You would need a three-axis autopilot . The nature of an unusual attitude is that it needs corrections around all three axes .
The TBM 900 holds the title of <URL> for <URL> . It has a top cruise speed of 330 knots at FL280 . <URL>
Stall training is mandatory for all pilots operating under CFR 121 , albeit in a simulator . According to 14 CFR <URL> , ( a ) Each certificate holder must include in its approved training program , the extended envelope training set forth in this section with respect to each airplane type for each pilot . The extended envelope training required by this section must be performed in a Level C or higher full flight simulator , approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 121.407 of this part . ( c ) Extended envelope training must include instructor-guided hands on experience of recovery from full stall and stick pusher activation , if equipped . FAA has not mandated in-aircraft in-aircraft stall or Upset Prevention and Recovery Training . ICAO 's Doc 10011 , <URL> is pretty explicit : On-aeroplane UPRT is not intended to be delivered while operating transport category aeroplanes or aeroplanes requiring two or more crew members ; for those operations , UPRT should not be permitted to be conducted outside the confines of a suitable FSTD . As a result of multiple stall related accidents ( including the <URL> , a Bombardier Q-400 , Turkish Airlines <URL> , a Boeing 737 and Air France <URL> , an Airbus A330 ) , both the industry and regulators have taken a number of steps taken to improve the stall and upset recovery training . For example , Airbus has changed the operational documentation of almost all its aircraft , including A320 ( via FCOM volume 3 Temporary Revision number 323-1 and QRH Temporary Revision number 727-1 ) <URL> of the stall recovery training is as follows : Immediately do the following at the first indication of stall ( buffet , stick shaker , stick pusher , or aural or visual indication ) during any flight phases except at lift off . Autopilot and autothrottle ... ... ... ... ... ... Disconnect a ) Nose down pitch control ... Apply until out of stall ( no longer have stall indications ) b ) Nose down pitch trim ... ... ... ... ... ... ... As needed Bank ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Wings Level Thrust ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... As Needed Speed Brakes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Retract Bank ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Wings Level These have beeen incorporated in the FAA <URL> which changed the core principles taught to the pilots for recovering from stall . Still , the trainings are expected to be carried out in Flight Simulation Training Device only . It is true that the pilots of Air Asia Flight 8501 were not given upset recovery training . However , this is according to the Flight Crew Training Manual and the philosophy that the aircraft 's FBW system will prevent any such condition from occuring in the first place . From the report : The flight crew had not received the operator upset recovery training on Airbus A320 as it was not required according to the Airbus FCTM . and The FCTM stated that the effectiveness of fly-by-wire architecture and the existence of control laws eliminate the need for upset recovery manoeuvres to be trained on protected Airbus .
Blending is the process of filing and polishing damaged sections off of the turbine blade . This prevents further damage and extends the life of the engine without having to replace parts , making it a very economical solution . There is a limit however , as modifying the turbine blades leads to a small cost in efficiency that can build up over time . <URL>
South African Airways flights to ' less developed ' locations in Africa often carry a mechanic and some spares on board . If there are no suitable repair facilities , supplies or maintenance personnel available at the destination , then their own guy can fix any minor mechanical issues . If there 's a major problem then they would have to fly in additional repair supplies and staff ( and fly out the stranded passengers ) . I found this out on a flight from Johannesberg to Lilongwe ( Malawi ) . A seat was broken in the passenger cabin and SAA 's on-board mechanic was able to fix it after a short delay . The captain explained briefly why he was on board . I assume that other airlines or operators who operate in undeveloped areas would do the same . It 's a lot cheaper to carry a mechanic and a few spares than it is to have an aircraft , crew and passengers stranded . If anything on the <URL> is broken then an airliner is n't airworthy so even a ' minor ' issue can ground it . I guess that the military might do the same for similar reasons , but I have no idea at all about that .
There is an aircraft with a single engine in the middle of fuselage - the <URL> - and it has the wingspan of a 737 . <URL> Global Hawk and B737 ; image from reddit . For the engine to power an airliner the size of 737 , it would have to be more powerful and huge . This leads to a few issues : It is going to eat up cabin space . In an age where airlines are finding creative ways to squeeze more people into the available space , this is a no-go . The large engine means that there should be sufficient clearance between the engine and the fuselage - else , it would result in more drag and reduced thrust , thereby reducing efficiency . Increasing clearance is quite difficult for fuselage mounted high bypass engine due to weight implications . Passengers in rear seats may not have a pleasant journey due to engine noise . Mounting the engine in rear incurs weight penalty through various ways - you have to strengthen the rear fuselage and at the same time , you lose wing bending relief , requiring strengthening and you have cg issues . Mounting engines above the fuselage is a not maintenance friendly either . Just to note , redundancy and safety are significant issues , especially in a commercial airliner .
No , it does not . ATC can specify a restriction to the deviation , especially in a non-radar environment where they ca n't keep an eye on you . The only thing that frees ATC of separation responsibilities between two IFR ( or IFR/VFR depending on airspace ) aircraft is if one them reports the other in sight , and is issued an " maintain visual separation " . After that the responsibility of not hitting the other aircraft , or its wake , rests solely with the pilot in command .
As long as you remain VFR then the equipment requirements for the airplane and the flight are VFR . § 61.57 says " Within the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight , that person performed and logged at least the following tasks and iterations in an airplane , powered-lift , helicopter , or airship , as appropriate , for the instrument rating privileges to be maintained in actual weather conditions , or under simulated conditions using a view-limiting device ... " . It does n't say anything about having an IFR certified airplane or having a current pitot/static and altimeter check . If you are maintaining SEL IFR currency , then all you need is a SEL airplane . MEL IFR , then a multi-engine plane , etc. . And if you are missing some of the 6-pack instruments , all the better for practicing partial panel .
Are you in a wet or coastal environment ? You can store a " Cessna type " plane outside for a few months and be ok . Most flight school planes live outside for years and do just fine . Do n't use a tarp . You might damage antennas , windows , or paint . Custom fitted covers are good but they 're also expensive . Do n't just start the plane and let it idle . That hurts the engine more than it helps . To do any good , the engine must reach and sustain normal operating temperature until the moisture boils off . A quick flight can accomplish this .
In subsonic flow , a pitot tube measures the total pressure $ P _ { 0 } $ , while a static port measures the static pressure $ P$ . For very small Mach numbers , we can use the incompressible form of Bernoulli 's Equation for determining the speed . As there is no energy due to compressibility , the density $ \ rho $ is constant . This means that along a streamline , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } + gh = constant $ Neglecting gravity , we have , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ Using this , we can determine the velocity as $ v = \ sqrt { 2 \ frac { P _ { 0 } - P } { \ rho } } $ This equation , however does not take the effect of comprehensibility into account . While at low speeds this is not a problem , this causes an error as the Mach number increases above ~ 0.3 . As the speed increases above this value , the term $ \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho v ^ { 2 } $ no longer gives the difference between the Total and static pressure . In case of compressible flow , neglecting gravity we have , $ \ int _ { P _ { 0 } } ^ { P } \ frac { dP } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ along the streamline as $ \ rho $ is no longer constant . For adiabatically expanding gas , we have , $ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } = ( 1 + \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { 2 } M ^ { 2 } ) ^ { \ frac { \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } } $ where $ \ gamma $ is the specific heat constant and $ M$ is the mach number . In this case , the velocity can be calculated as , $ v = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } \ frac { P } { \ rho } [ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } ^ { \ frac { \ gamma - 1 } { \ gamma } } -1 ] } $ This difference gives rise to the error , which is positive i.e. compressibility error produces ASI readings that are too high . In terms of the pressure ratio , the error is more than 8 % as the aircraft approaches transonic speeds . The following image shows the difference in pressure ratio between readings using assumptions of incompressible and compressible flow . <URL> Image from Mechanical Measurements and Metrology - Measurement of Fluid Velocity by S. P. Venkateshan Basically , the issue is with the assumptions in the method use to calculate the velocity - for low speeds , we assume that the density is constant , which is clearly not the case as the speed increases . Usually , M = 0.3 is taken as the cutoff point .
In flight simulator , using the NAV setting directs the Autopilot to follow the FMS ' pre-setup flight plan and will navigate the aircraft through each of the configured waypoints . No . The NAV mode follows VOR radial . The FMS might provide " virtual vor " and use NAV mode too , but usually there is a separate LNAV mode for FMS . In real life , however , it seems almost a guarantee that ATC will provide some heading which is not necessarily the most direct route , ie . what your flight plan had configured . ATC will request you turn right or left somewhere around the waypoint you expected , but not where you or the NAV system would have turned . No . In real life , most of the time you follow the flight plan . And even if the ATC wants you to fly other route , they will tell you new set of routes or fixes to use and you punch them in the FMS , so you still fly LNAV . Exception is approach where it is common that ATC will have you fly downwind ( opposite direction than the runway ) and tell you to turn base and intercept the final approach , so there they will give you heading ( and you use HDG mode on the A/P ) . But that is once during the flight . Sometimes also once on departure , but that 's usually it . The ATC can also tell you to follow some radial of some VOR and that 's where you use the NAV mode proper , not the LNAV mode used for following FMS . Your flight plan is usually not direct , but follows the defined airways . Even in the simulator , if you use the built-in ATC , it will give headings that are not what the flight plan had expected ... making the NAV button not very useful except when flying VFR without following . I am not sure how realistic the simulator ATC is and would ' t expect much of it . You 'd get a better result in something like IVAO where the controllers are played by real people . It seems the autopilot HDG feature is used more often . Is this true in real life as well ? The HDG feature is used when the ATC vectors you around . It usually happens on busy airports on approach and on really busy airports on departure , but enroute it is rare . The LNAV feature is used most of the time . The NAV feature is indeed rare , because most of the time you use FMS , not a raw VOR .
Yes . <URL> Top result : <URL> Perhaps the most intriguing product floated by HBC at its NBAA press conference was a single-engine turboprop . The company says the airplane has no public name or designation but will " absolutely , " said Holcombe , be " called a King Air . " That name , of course , has never been bestowed upon a single-engine airplane before . This King Air , however , will be no scaled-back PT-6 single . Like the remarkably roomy and powerful Pilatus PC-12 , the Beechcraft single will be big . Its fuselage will be -- get this -- based on that of the Premier 1A , which , HBC claims , has the best cabin of any bizjet in its class . It will certainly be huge for a single . In addition to the voluminous cabin , the single would feature a large side loading door , room for eight to 11 occupants and industry-leading pressurization . The composite fuselage allows for efficient pressurization . HBC says it will build the fuselage in the same way it builds the Premier 1A today , using state-of-the-art winding technology for extremely light and strong composite structures . <URL>
Oxygen in passenger masks is either generated by oxygen generator or released from pressurized container via reduction valve . In either case it is released at fixed rate . But human breath is discontinous . So the bag acts as a buffer . You inhale the oxygen accumulated in it and then it slowly refills while you are exhaling .
Attitude is rotation of the body frame of reference ( its principal axes , whatever it means ) relative to a chosen frame of reference . For aircraft : The body frame of reference is the longitudinal , lateral and vertical axes , where the longitudinal-vertical plane is the plane of symmetry and longitudinal axes is chosen to point generally forward , along cabin floor if there is such a thing . The chosen outside frame of reference is the local horizontal , which is plane perpendicular to the local weight ¹ vector , and in that plane the main axis is chosen either as projection of either local magnetic inductance vector ( magnetic heading ) or Earth rotational axis ( true heading ) . Regarding " true horizon " , in the sense of where the you see the ground/sky boundary , that ca n't be used for defining attitude at all , because it is not a plane . The line connecting you to the " true horizon " ahead and the line connecting you to the " true horizon " behind is not the same line , so it ca n't be used as axis . Instead , horizon is defined in terms of horizontal , the plane orthogonal to the weight vector ( and tangent to the Geoid , the ' idealized ' sea level ) . To fly level , your velocity vector must point along the local horizontal . In most aircraft it means your pitch is slightly positive . This is because most aircraft are designed to never need to fly at negative pitch ² and as the angle of attack for level flight depends on weight and speed , most of the time your pitch will be slightly positive . ¹ Not " gravity " , because it centrifugal force due to Earth rotation is included . Actually , the instruments measure the value including the centrifugal force due to the movement of the aircraft , which might be slightly different from centrifugal force on stationary object . The immediate measurement also includes the inertial force due to acceleration ( the forces ca n't be distinguished ) , but this is eliminated by averaging , because the average acceleration ( over several minutes ) is known to be zero or close enough for practical purposes . ² There are some exceptions that do normally fly slightly nose-down , like B-52 , which does it because its unusual gear does not allow it to rotate on take-off , or DHC-6 Twin Otter , which apparently does it to provide better view during slow short take-offs and landings .
The <URL> says yes granted the cockpit is approved and the required additional equipment is met ( refer to EASA AFM ) . Minimum Flight Crew : One pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) plus additional equipment as specified in the Limitations Section of the EASA Approved Airplane Flight Manual The related note : Approval for operation with a minimum crew of one pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) is based upon the cockpit equipment installation and arrangement evaluated during ANAC certification testing . No significant changes may be made to the installed cockpit equipment or arrangement ( EFIS , autopilot , avionics , etc. ) , except as permitted by the approved MMEL , without prior approval from the responsible Aircraft Certification Office .
Several reasons : A380s are really expensive . Unit cost for an A380 , depending on interior appointments , is about \ $ 375 million . The 747-8 is about \ $ 357 million . The 777-300ER is about \ $ 320 million , the last variants of the A340 about \ $ 275 million , and the 787 about \ $ 200 million . The 380 might be the biggest airliner ever to fly , but it 's also the most expensive . Keep in mind these jets ca n't fly every day , requiring you to buy a couple more than the schedule requires and rotate them in as maintenance is required on each airframe . That means A380 operators have at least one three hundred and eighty million dollar airframe sitting on the tarmac not making money on any given day ( in fact , up to 55 days at a time for the 6-year " D check " maintenance , not counting lower-level maintenance performed more often as well as any unscheduled maintenance ) . Airbus could not/cannot build them fast enough to meet initial orders in a timely manner . Airbus received 189 initial A380 orders prior to the airframe 's scheduled start of production in 2007 , plus 27 A380F variant orders , and has received 128 since production began ( though the freighter orders were cancelled ) . To date , it 's only delivered about half due to a combination of issues found during full-scale production that delayed ramp-up , and currently its pace is about 30 planes a year , giving it about a 3 year backlog of remaining orders ( some of which have been sitting in the build queue for 10 years ) . It initially prioritized passenger variants for Emirates , which put in the largest single order ( almost half of total orders ) to handle that airline 's primarily long-haul schedule . As a result , everyone else got pushed off until many ( including FedEx and UPS which were waiting for freight versions ) cancelled their orders and went to Boeing for 747-8Fs or 777-ERFs . Jumbos represent a serious cost-revenue risk that most airlines are no longer willing to gamble on . You use a jumbo jet when you need to move a lot of people at one time . That typically means a high-demand , long-distance route that calls for nonstop service , but that you do n't want to have to fly any more times than you have to . 747s used to be used for high-volume domestic connectors in the US during and immediately after the regulation era , between major cities like New York , Chicago , LA , Houston , Miami etc. . They were also used for major intercontinental flights , primarily because regulations required more than two engines for trips extending a certain distance beyond the nearest divert field . However , the 747 is a 50-year-old design with only incremental improvements made in efficiency . Four engine jets in the modern air transport market require you to fill the plane every time , and with ETOPS-rated two-engine widebodies now making many of the same flights that previously required three or more engines , the A380 , even with the most efficient engines ever put on a commercial airliner , is at least three decades late to the jumbo party , and is entering the market at a time when the 747 is being phased out of most fleets in favor of more economical widebodies . The A380 was designed for an air travel market that has n't materialized . Airbus was betting big ( NPI ) on airport congestion and increased passenger counts during the 80s and 90s requiring a shift to fewer flights on larger-capacity planes to reduce pattern and gate congestion . Except for a few major metropolitan areas that simply can not grow their airports anymore ( O'Hare , LaGuardia/JFK , Heathrow etc ) that has n't really been the case . 9/11 and the 2008 financial crisis have seen passenger counts plummet from post-regulation highs , which has reduced total flights and allowed smaller planes which are more efficiently scheduled . In addition , Denver opened up the largest airport by land area in the world ( so it has plenty of room to grow ) , while Atlanta , Dallas , Charles de Galle and others are busy primarily because they 're massive complexes with efficient layouts that can support a major airline 's hub operations . The use of jumbos in general is therefore very risky , and many airlines , in addition to passing on the A380 , are phasing out the venerable 747 that was previously unchallenged in this class , in favor of something a little more economical in the next smaller widebody class , like the 777 , 787 , A340 or A350 . That was Boeing 's bet , that smaller , high-efficiency jets would be the wave of the future over pure size , and it seems to be paying off as Boeing , despite higher production capacities , has more 787 orders than it has capacity for the foreseeable future , while Airbus 's competing A350 is more or less getting the overflow ( and it ca n't even meet that demand ; 700 orders , 5 produced ) . The A380 really does n't solve the problem it was created for , and in fact causes more problems for airports than it solves . A super-heavy like the A380 creates monumental wake turbulence that poses a danger to other planes , which requires ATC to space following traf
Fuel efficiency . One engine can run more efficiently than two , even if the two have the same power output combined than the one . Friction losses , inertia losses , etc. . . The same thing can be seen in commercial airliners today . Now that gas turbines have reached a very reliable state , and the regulations for overwater flight recognize this , we are seeing large two engine widebodies ( 777 ) replacing four engine widebodies ( A340 ) , partially due to lower maintenance costs ( cheaper to rebuild two large engines than four smaller ones ) but mainly for reasons of fuel consumption . The <URL> that made the round the world unrefueled flight had two engines , but only used both for takeoff and initial climb . After that , the one was shut down for the duration of the flight , for reasons of fuel consumption . Obviously , two engines are more reliable than one , and yes , a single engine long range flight is risky .
This answer assumes that " GA " means " little piston planes . " Aluminum ( or non-fabric ) aircraft tend to " hold up " better against the elements . I would not store a Stinson 108 outdoors but would not think twice about storing a 172 ( or Cirrus ) on an open air tiedown . The fabric covering requires a great deal of care compared to the metal ( or composite ) skin of most GA planes . Fabric planes must be re-covered every few decades , more frequently if neglected . This is a non-trivial operation with a price tag to match . This typically involves reconditioning the now-exposed structure which adds significant cost . Re-covering and painting a Cub ( small plane ) , for example , can cost an owner tens of thousands of dollars . Stripping , treating , and painting a " metalized " Cessna 120 ( similar to a Cub ) is a much easier , faster , and cheaper task . Another consideration is the availability of aluminum . Aluminum was declared a strategic material in WW2 and , as a result , a great deal of energy was allocated to increase production . With the war over and the infrastructure in place to produce a lot of aluminum cheaply , why adhere to an antiquated manufacturing process requiring a painstaking level of detail when lower skilled labor can use cheap aluminum to mass produce high quality planes ? In short , fabric planes typically require more care and attention than their stressed skin cousins . They also require somewhat specialized and skilled labor to build and maintain . This generally translates into higher costs for everyone involved . I 'm sure there are technical reasons for the shift away from fabric but I 'll let Peter ( or another technical expert ) comment on those .
I fly a Super Decathlon with an Aspen E1000 . While an excellent PFD , I certainly would not trust it in aerobatic flight . There 's no cage function , and no way that I 'm aware of to keep the attitude indicator from misbehaving , which I 've seen it do firsthand . I also fly the Avidyne R9 system , which also does not have a caging function . Furthermore , I downloaded the Garmin G1000 manual , which says nothing about a way to cage the GRS 77 . This lack of commonly available GA glass-cockpit aerobatic-capable instrumentation probably contributes to why <URL>
There are a number of things to take into account : The distance between the runways ; can they be operated as independent runways ? This requires the centrelines to be more than 1035 meter apart . The traffic mix : is there constantly the same distance between landings or a large gap every now and then between a Heavy and a Medium that allows for one or two departures in between ? The runway entry and exit points . Can aircraft wait sufficiently short of the approach end to allow for a rapid departure when cleared for take-off ? Does the runway have high-speed exit taxi-ways at appropriate places for the landing traffic to vacate the runway quickly or is a slow 90 degree turn required ? In general , mixed mode operations can increase capacity significantly . For example the estimate for London Heathrow is that the traffic could increase from <URL> . But it is not a simple change . The requirements on ATC increase . For example , to monitor the parallel approaches , the update rate and accuracy of the surveillance system must meet higher standards than for single runway approaches . Also missed approach and emergency procedures need to be changed . And then there is an important noise issue ; in mixed mode operations , all four runway ends are continuously exposed to aircraft noise , while in dedicated operations the departure end of one runway and the arrival end of the other is not exposed . " Back of the envelope " estimation : For simplicity let 's assume traffic that is only Medium wake category with 3NM final approach separation at about 150 knots groundspeed . This would result in ~ 75 seconds intervals between aircraft passing the threshold for a pure landing runway , allowing for 48 landing per hour . In mixed mode , a line up and hold instruction would be given as soon as the landing aircraft is passed the numbers , so take-off will commence quickly after take-off clearance is given . The take-off clearance itself can be given as soon as the landing aircraft has vacated the runway , which should be about 60 seconds after it crossed the threshold . The take-off run itself is 30-40 seconds for B737 / A320 family aircraft . Let 's add about 20 seconds reaction and engine spool up time + margin . The next landing aircraft can cross the threshold after lift-off . The interval would be ~ 120 seconds between landing aircraft , resulting in 30 landings per hour . But this can be done on two runways at the same time , effectively increasing the throughput by about 25 % percent . The above schedule is very idealised with pure alternating take-off and landings and little margin for error . If put in practice it will probably result in too many go arounds due to late take-offs , but it gives good idea of the capacity increase that is possible .
end question
start question
Is there a NOTAM code for solar eclipse ?
For the <URL> , I found this <URL> below , seems like it 's the opposite of a warning . E ) A SOLAR ECLIPSE WILL TAKE PLACE ON THE 20TH OF MARCH . SPECIAL ROUTES HAVE BEEN DEFINED FOR FLIGHTS PLANNING TO VIEW THE ECLIPSE . THE ROUTES ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS : ( ... ) ANY ADDITIONAL REQUESTS FOR A SOLAR ECLIPSE PROFILE SHALL BE SENT TO REYKJAVIK OACC SHIFT MANAGER , SEE CONTACT INFO BELOW . SOLAR ECLIPSE FLIGHTS WILL BE GIVEN PRIORITY DURING THE ECLIPSE . OTHER FLIGHTS MAY EXPECT A REROUTE AND OR LEVEL CHANGE FOR SEPARATION PURPOSES . Regarding the temperature drop , from <URL> : Because the patch of the shadow travels faster than the speed of sound , weather systems will only be affected very locally directly under the instantaneous footprint of the eclipse . The main effect is in the " radiant heating " component which goes away suddenly at the moment of eclipse and produces a very fast temperature decrease . If the wind is blowing , your body probably exaggerates , by evaporative cooling , how large the actual temperature swing actually is . Due to the Earth 's geometry , the shadow 's speed differs from location to location , <URL> equates to Mach 2.2 at 50,000 feet for an F-15 to fly along . Even for that F-15 in constant complete darkness , every instance is a new darkness . Some <URL> mention the drop at the surface being 3 ° C ( 5 ° F ) , but it looks like it 's not a thoroughly studied field ( impact of solar eclipses on local weather ) .
There is a descent requirement , but it 's perhaps not in the way you imagine as it has to do with oxygen supply . <URL> subpart K states : ( b ) Crewmembers . When operating at flight altitudes above 10,000 feet , the certificate holder shall supply enough oxygen to comply with § 121.329 , but not less than a two-hour supply for each flight crewmember on flight deck duty . The required two hours supply is that quantity of oxygen necessary for a constant rate of descent from the airplane 's maximum certificated operating altitude to 10,000 feet in ten minutes and followed by 110 minutes at 10,000 feet . The oxygen required in the event of cabin pressurization failure by § 121.337 may be included in determining the supply required for flight crewmembers on flight deck duty . This specifies that a turbine aircraft must be able to descend from it 's maximum certificated altitude to 10,000 ft in 10 minutes or less . This means the maximum descent speed is variable to maximum certificated altitude , so if an aircraft 's ceiling is 42000ft it must be able to descend at least 3200fpm , it it 's 25000ft then 1500fpm . As for how that 's done I do n't think the regulations say , it 's up to the manufacturers to develop aircraft that can meet the requirement .
Unfortunately , countries tend to want to decide themselves how stuff is supposed to work once you 're within their borders . That 's why we have different rules and laws , and when you go somewhere else in the world , you might need to know some of the differences . In England they drive on the wrong side of the road , imagine that ! :) Anyways , in order to have things run smoothly in something so utterly international as aviation , there 's this organization called <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) where I believe most countries of the world are members , where the rules are that the ICAO drafts recommendations ( I believe they are called ) which the member states should incorporate into their respective laws and regulations . If they choose not to , they need to inform the ICAO of such deviation , do n't know exactly what happens then , but I believe the idea is to at least let everybody know there 's a discrepancy . Anyway , the ICAO Annex 5 specifies units to use , including units for altitude and actually specifying meters as the primary unit , with feet being accepted as non-SI alternative . Why on earth you 'd want to go against the majority on this I do n't know , perhaps due to the fact that it 's an SI unit and they want to be as much SI as they can . So it 's basically up to each country how they want to play it . Most countries stuck with feet .
You can download Google Earth airspace files for most countries , and move through them in 3D to explore what they would look like for various areas . For example , you could see where you would be " under " a Class B shelf , or where you might navigate to avoid B/C/D airspace and " surface airport E airspace " ( if you 're flying an ultralight , for example ) . These files can be downloaded from <URL> Here is a screenshot I just captured of the Seattle Class B , looking northwest from the southeast corner . <URL>
If you assume the main gear does not rotate ( in the left-right sense ) , then the pivot point will always be somewhere on a line joining the two main gears . You can then use trigonometry and the turn angle of the nose wheel to identify the centre of rotation . ( Assume the nose tyre does not slip sideways . ) ( By the way this is very similar to Ackermann steering used on cars - lots of standard mechanical texts talk about this . )
An ATC facility probably has a method of recording any aircraft they dealt with each day which declared an emergency , via the transponder code or otherwise . One is probably safe in assuming that this information is passed along up the food chain for some sort of collection at a national level , although such an aggregated list may not be immediately available to the general public . My first guess is that a FOIA request might be able to get what you 're looking for , although if the requested scope is " every emergency aircraft at every facility in the US over the last two decades , " you may be out of luck . ( That would be a huge volume of data anyway . ) Understand a couple of things about declaring an emergency : Most are n't accompanied by actually squawking 7700 . Of the ( relatively few ) emergencies that I 've declared in a couple decades of military + civilian flying , I ca n't think of any that required us to change the transponder code -- we declared the emergency with ATC on the radio , kept our assigned squawk , and did what we needed to do . Many are n't related to the aircraft at all . I had occasion about a year ago to ask our airline safety department what the most common cause was for declared emergencies in our operation , and was told that far &amp; away , sick passengers ( medical emergencies ) were # 1 by a huge margin , and everything else ( which includes all the aircraft-related events ) was far down in the weeds in comparison . Given that , seeing that aircraft 123XY declared an emergency 5 times last year does n't necessarily mean that it has had more mechanical issues than its fleetmate 234XY that only did so once ; it may just mean that 123 got more than its share of sick passengers . In fact , in airline operations at least , mechanical issues are almost always caught on the ground , so an aircraft with " gremlins " will usually manifest them in terms of maintenance delays and cancellations , rather than in-flight emergencies .
No , it could not fly much faster with the available energy . Lift is a question of wing area and dynamic pressure . Solar Impulse 2 has 269.5 m ² <URL> to carry its 2.3 tons of mass . This is a wing loading of just 8.53 kg/m ² ; much less than even gliders have ( they start at around 30 kg/m ² ) . This allows it to fly very slowly ; if we assume it flies at the lift coefficient $ c_L $ for <URL> $ $ c_L = \ sqrt { \ pi \ cdot AR \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot c _ { D0 } } $ $ and guess the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ to be 0.029 and the aspect ratio $ AR$ to be 19.18 , the result is 1.377 . This is already close to the maximum lift coefficient , which I expect to be 1.6 . Now we need the lift equation to calculate the speed which is needed to keep it flying at this lift coefficient : $ $ v = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { c_L \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho } } $ $ Let 's assume it flies in 9000 m altitude where <URL> , the result is 16.13 m/s or 58 km/h . Now consider that it will fly at the beginning , late at night and at the end of the flight at lower altitudes , and may not be able to fly a straight course ( maybe to fly around bad weather ) , and the 55 km/h look entirely plausible , if not outright speedy . At sea level , the optimum range speed is only 9.96 m/s or 35.86 km/h , just about its take-off airspeed . Flying faster would need more energy and would not allow Solar Impulse 2 to recharge its batteries for the night hours . <URL> to be possible at all .
Yes , it is called <URL> . FIS is defined by ICAO , and the term is used in most of the world . " Flight following " is a local term used only in certain countries . A flight information service ( FIS ) is a form of air traffic service which is available to any aircraft within a flight information region ( FIR ) , as agreed internationally by ICAO . It is defined as information pertinent to the safe and efficient conduct of flight , and includes information on other potentially conflicting traffic , possibly derived from radar , but stopping short of providing positive separation from that traffic . Flight Information also includes : FIS shall be provided to all aircraft which are provided with any air traffic controller ( ATC ) service or are otherwise known to air traffic service units . All air traffic service units will provide an FIS to any aircraft , in addition to their other tasks .
The pilot means : I 'll be back again , so please do n't assign this code to someone else . Less workload for a pilot going in and out of class-B airspaces , and less hassle for the controllers , so they do n't keep assigning a different code to the same plane . The pilot will switch to the <URL> ( 1200 in the USA ) , and then use the one he 's written down and used earlier for future passes .
What are the requirements for radio systems in aircraft ? Generally there are n't any , at least as far as " being required to have radios " . It is perfectly legal to fly around in most of the United States in a Piper Cub with no radios of any kind . Indeed , unless it 's been retrofitted with one a Piper Cub would have no electrical system at all - so you would only be able to fly under " daytime VFR conditions " in airspace not requiring communication with air traffic control ( absent special arrangements ) . If you elect to fly an aircraft equipped with radios ( as most of us do ) there are specific requirements those radios must meet , which are described in <URL> . This is not a comprehensive list , but : For Communication radios these are outlined in <URL> and TSO C-169a . Transponders must meet specific TSO performance criteria per <URL> Navigation Radios ( VOR/ILS/ADF ) must meet specific TSO performance criteria if used under instrument flight rules . The TSO number for these escape me at the moment but I 'm sure you can look them up . GPS systems must meet TSO C145c / TSO C146c requirements ( if used for IFR navigation ) . The Emergency Locator Transmitter ( ELT ) must meet specific TSO criteria . The requirements obviously vary based on the type of radio , and typically reference other industry standards ( for example <URL> for VHF communication radios sends you over to RTCA/DO -186 B for the actual performance criteria ) .
In short : the 24 bit address is critical on the technical layer of Air Traffic Control , but it is not used in the operational level . For identification of aircraft and association to flight plans , the air traffic controllers and the flight data processing systems rely mostly on the Mode A code and the aircraft ID ( call sign ) transmitted by the transponder . The ICAO 24-bit aircraft address is an essential element of the way Mode S radar and TCAS work . Before Mode-S radar , only modes A and C were used by civil ATC secondary radars . Mode A and Mode C are unaddressed ; every transponder receiving a Mode A or Mode C interrogation will reply * . This causes two problems , garbling and FRUIT . Garbling is caused by the overlap of replies from multiple transponders . A transponder replies on 1090 MHz in the from of a number of pulses . For Mode A &amp; C , there are at most 12 pulses between a set of framing pulses . When multiple aircraft reply to the same interrogation , these pulses mix up and it becomes difficult to find out which transponder sent which pulse . This leads to false altitudes or false squawk codes . FRUIT ( False Replies Unsynchronised to Interrogator Transmission ) is caused by replies that are triggered by other radars . When multiple radars operate in an area , transponders can be quite busy and the radar is easily mislead by a reply to another radar . In addition to the timing ( range ) being wrong , the reply can be Mode A ( squawk code ) while the radar interrogated Mode C ( altitude ) . There is no way to see what kind ( A or C ) reply was sent . To overcome these problems of Mode A/C , Mode S was introduced . Mode S is quite different from Mode A/C and requires a more sophisticated radar and transponder . It uses the 24 bit address to distinguish responses from various aircraft and to interrogate specific aircraft . Most Mode S interrogations are addressed ; the interrogation contains the unique 24 bit address of the aircraft it is interrogating . This reduces the probability of garbling since other aircraft will not reply Unaddressed Mode S interrogations will solicit replies that contain the address of interrogator ( radar ) . This prevents FRUIT since the radar can verify that the reply is correctly addressed . Unlike Mode A/C which does not have any error checking , a Mode S reply contains a 24 bit CRC check code . Mode S Altitude and identity ( squawk ) replies have their own identifier so they can be distinguished . Mode S radars can be operated in clusters and coordinate between them who is interrogating which aircraft at which time . This further reduces the message load and garbling / fruit probability . For TCAS , the Mode S address is used to distinguish replies for various aircraft in the vicinity of the own aircraft . The TCAS transponder interrogates omnidirectionally ( in all directions ) and get 's replies from all direction . Again , this is very susceptible to Garbling and FRUIT . Whilst TCAS can work with Mode A/C , for its reliability and coordination of resolution advisories , the 24-bit address is crucial .
<URL> contains recommended crew member procedures and training for combating in-flight fires . It has information about causes , indications and procedures of in-flight fire fighting . According to the AC , Upon discovering a fire , the initial focus should be on aggressively extinguishing the fire with a readily available extinguisher ( which will likely be halon ) , but do not use water if it is believed the fire is of aircraft electrical system origin . Generally , you should consider using the first available extinguisher rather than delaying your firefighting efforts while you locate a particular extinguishing agent for a class A , B , or C fire . Airbus <URL> also says pretty much the same thing : Any fire , no matter how small , may rapidly become out of control , if not dealt with quickly.The first priority will always be to put it out . Coming to the Galaxy Note 7 issue , the AC says , h . What are the Recommended Procedures for Fighting a Lithium Battery Fire ? The following procedures are recommended for fighting a fire in a lithium-type-battery-powered PED . The procedures consist of two phases : extinguishing the fire , and cooling the remaining cells to stop thermal runaway . ( 1 ) Utilize a halon , halon replacement , or water extinguisher to extinguish the fire and prevent its spread to additional flammable materials . ( 2 ) After extinguishing the fire , douse the device with water , an aqueous-based extinguishing agent , or other nonalcoholic liquids to cool the device and prevent additional battery cells from reaching thermal runaway . Though the standard procedures in case of a fire has to be decided by the company , the FAA recommends some procedures to be followed , like : • Be aggressive ; if flames are visible , fight the fire immediately . • Someone must immediately notify the flight crew to describe the fire , smoke , smells , action being taken , etc. . • If flames are not visible , find the base or source of the smoke . • Pull circuit breakers , in applicable area . • Do not reset circuit breakers , unless instructed by flight crew . • Relocate passengers as necessary . • Locate hot spots using the back of your hand . • Don PBE ( not necessarily in this order ) . The flight crew ( who are supposed to don their oxygen masks on indication of smoke/fire ) are supposed to inform the ATC and plan for an emergency landing , if necessary .
In the United States moored balloons ( or kites ) are governed under <URL> ( a much neglected and very short corner of the regulations that also covers amateur rocketry and " unmanned free balloons " -- looking at your profile it 's probably a section you 'd find very interesting ! ) . In this particular case you 're probably looking for <URL> . The FAA is mum on the specific engineering requirements of mooring systems - I expect they anticipate you will work with structural and mechanical engineers to design a tethering system that can safely hold the loads your moored object will place on it ( or just tie it to the biggest , most structurally secure thing you can find , with a nice heavy rope and a proper knot ) . There are a few things they ARE pretty specific about though . Some operating limitations ( altitude , size , location , visibility ) . The fact that you have to tell them about it in advance ( At least if it 's more than 150 feet AGL , per ) Lighting and marking requirements for the tether ( s ) ( , which basically says the mooring line must have pennants ( daytime ) and/or lights ( nighttime ) to ensure visibility ) What happens to Balloons if the tether breaks ( , which basically says if the balloon breaks free of its moorings you need a " rapid deflation device " that gets it down in a hurry so it 's not just wandering around up there ) . Interestingly they do n't seem to care so much if a kite escapes its moorings .
I do n't know if it is official , but across Europe , Middle East , Asia , and north Africa I hear using " turnpad " , and many ATC in these regions provide directions like " bactrack via turnpad and continue taxi via taxiway A " , that means go ahead to turnpad bactrack and vacate runway via taxiway A.
In subsonic flow , a pitot tube measures the total pressure $ P _ { 0 } $ , while a static port measures the static pressure $ P$ . For very small Mach numbers , we can use the incompressible form of Bernoulli 's Equation for determining the speed . As there is no energy due to compressibility , the density $ \ rho $ is constant . This means that along a streamline , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } + gh = constant $ Neglecting gravity , we have , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ Using this , we can determine the velocity as $ v = \ sqrt { 2 \ frac { P _ { 0 } - P } { \ rho } } $ This equation , however does not take the effect of comprehensibility into account . While at low speeds this is not a problem , this causes an error as the Mach number increases above ~ 0.3 . As the speed increases above this value , the term $ \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho v ^ { 2 } $ no longer gives the difference between the Total and static pressure . In case of compressible flow , neglecting gravity we have , $ \ int _ { P _ { 0 } } ^ { P } \ frac { dP } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ along the streamline as $ \ rho $ is no longer constant . For adiabatically expanding gas , we have , $ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } = ( 1 + \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { 2 } M ^ { 2 } ) ^ { \ frac { \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } } $ where $ \ gamma $ is the specific heat constant and $ M$ is the mach number . In this case , the velocity can be calculated as , $ v = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } \ frac { P } { \ rho } [ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } ^ { \ frac { \ gamma - 1 } { \ gamma } } -1 ] } $ This difference gives rise to the error , which is positive i.e. compressibility error produces ASI readings that are too high . In terms of the pressure ratio , the error is more than 8 % as the aircraft approaches transonic speeds . The following image shows the difference in pressure ratio between readings using assumptions of incompressible and compressible flow . <URL> Image from Mechanical Measurements and Metrology - Measurement of Fluid Velocity by S. P. Venkateshan Basically , the issue is with the assumptions in the method use to calculate the velocity - for low speeds , we assume that the density is constant , which is clearly not the case as the speed increases . Usually , M = 0.3 is taken as the cutoff point .
There 's no legal limit of how high you 're allowed to fly by law : there 's no law that says It is illegal to fly above X ,000 ft In some juristictions there are more specific laws , eg It is illegal to operate an unpressurised aircraft above 25,000 ft However , each aircraft has a service ceiling when it is certified , and it would be generally illegal to operate the aircraft above this altitude ( because it 's unsafe ) . I 'm fairly confident that you were n't at 55,000 ft. No commercial airliner I know of has a service ceiling higher than 45,000 ft ( the newer version of the 747 ) and they almost never operate above 41,000 ft. A few private jets can go a little higher , up to around 50,000 ft , but I know of no non-military/experimental aircraft which is currently capable of going much above 50,000 ft , even if you were daft enough to try .
It 's a Russian internal city or airport identifier . Many small cities do n't have IATA codes , but do have internal Russian codes . This system is called CRT ( Center for schedules and tariffs , ЦРТ , Центр Расписаний и Тарифов ) named after a department in the organization that manages them ( see below ) . Wikipedia article cited below claims it 's also called " Sirena " code ( named after Sirena -- a booking system for airline and railway tickets ) . Here 's a translation of a fragment from <URL> : The internal city and airport coding system in the former USSR is structured analogous to IATA . [ ... ] The airport code in this system consists of 3 letters of the Russian alphabet . As in IATA codes , the 3-letter combination is interpreted as atomic and has no internal structure . As in case with IATA , all 3-letter codes are unique . Like IATA , the codes were assigned to cities such that the code has something in common either with the name of the city or with its IATA code [ ... ] Contrary to IATA , the internal codes were changed after cities were renamed in the 1990s : Saint Petersburg 's internal code was changed from ЛЕД to СПТ , Samara ( formerly Kuibyshev ) -- from КУФ to СМШ , Ekaterinburg ( formerly Sverdlovsk ) -- from СВХ to ЕКБ . Many small cities and airports in the former USSR have an internal code only . In late 1990s foreign ( non-Russian ) cities were assigned internal codes because of the popularity of these destinations ( e. g. Barcelona -- БЦН ) . As of April 2009 , there are about three thousand internal codes that are actively used . It appears that the codes are maintained by the <URL> . The section Coding Directories on their page <URL> says : STC maintains the aggregated database of coding directories for the purpose of universal use of codes in information systems for passenger services reservation and sales , publication of timetables and fares , ticketing , settlement and other commercial issues related to passenger services . STC maintains the codifiers in pursuance of Provision on Assignment , Maintenance and Use of Internal Codes of Carriers , Organizations , Airports , Cities ( points ) and Civil Aviation Agencies ( № ДВ-63 / и dated 12.05.94 ) and Directive " On Coding Directories Approval " ( № ДВ-109 / и date 14.07.94 ) . STC supports the following coding directories : Airlines Airports Cities In Russian , STC is translated as CRT ( ЦРТ ) and I 've heard people refer to the internal codes as " CRT codes " .
The simplest answer is that United and Thai have a codeshare arrangement , so United booked a ticket on all 4 segments using its own reservation system . United 's reservation system communicated with Thai 's to reserve your place , and the ticket was issued by United . that being said , there are a number of GDSs ( Global Distribution Systems ) , which are multi-airline reservation systems , all of which communicate with each other . <URL>
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
With current technology the L/D might go up to 70 or 75 , and going higher would require an almost impractically large wing span . Gliders need to fly in tight circles to use updrafts , and the larger the wingspan becomes , the bigger the speed difference between inner and outer wing will be . Also , landing such a wide wing without dropping a wingtip will be very hard . Smaller wings with a high aspect ratio will have a low chord length , leading to smaller <URL> s , which translates into a steep increase of friction drag if the aspect ratio is increased without increasing wing area . Therefore , only adding wing span will help , and this runs into a soft wall beyond the 30 m of designs like the <URL> . In addition , the current <URL> will make bigger aircraft unattractive for competition pilots . The <URL> is claimed to have an L/D approaching 75 , but I have learned over the years to see theoretical predictions as invariably optimistic , and realistic performance , with bugs on the wing and all , will never quite measure up to the hoped-for ideal . <URL> to reduce friction drag and proposed glider designs with L/D ratios in excess of 100 . Turbines at the wingtips would drive the suction pumps , so these would still be unpowered aircraft . But so far nobody has dared to turn his visions into reality . While laminarisation avoids the increase in friction drag of a turbulent boundary layer , a moving wall would eliminate viscous losses altogether . Now the friction generation is between the moving wall ( this could be a taut foil running between two cylinders at the forward and aft end of the wing ) and the fixed structure . With current materials there is no hope of reducing drag this way , but who knows what tricks will be possible in the future . A glide ratio of 100 or more looks rather unlikely in the next 50 years .
end question
start question
Do some helicopters require classes , type ratings , or special endorsements , the way some airplanes do ?
I ca n't see a connection between " classes " of helicopters and ratings . You also do n't specify which jurisdiction so I will answer for the UK CAA which I know . To fly any helicopter under VFR needs nothing more than your license , gained on any type , and a type rating for the specific aircraft . For example , I gained my license on the R22 . I am therefore also type rated on it . The second aircraft I learned to fly was the B206 which is jet powered . I did n't need anything extra than the appropriate type rating . I can fly any helicopter for which I am rated under VFR . If I had an IFR certification , I could fly any helicopter I am rated for under VFR , and any IFR certified helicopter for which I am rated under IFR . " Difference training " is simply part of the the type rating . For example , if I ever learned to fly a craft with a retractable undercarriage , I would be rated to fly that type , but not another type with retractable gear . What does differ is the type of license , e.g. CPL or ATP . I would need that license in order to carry passengers for hire and to conduct other commercial operations , but I still need a type rating on whatever helicopter I use to carry those passengers . Put it this way , the day after I gained my license , I could climb into any helicopter and act as pilot under training . Hope that 's all clear !
There are many reasons an airline may fly to a given destination and the economics of air travel are complex to say the least . I would like to fist address your question could n't the people living around Bologna take a train to Milan to get to Dubai Sure they could but airlines do n't only service locations because of the people that live there they may service them for the very people that do n't . I fly both commercially and as a GA pilot to explore new places . I generally fly out of the Philadelphia area which is one of the busiest in the US . From there I head to plenty of tiny airstrips all over the place , none of these airstrips are in towns that are as economically prosperous or busy as Philadelphia but they see my travel because I wish to explore the area . The same goes for foreign airports , simply because a country is less economically prosperous or " busy " than another does not mean it has less to offer culturally and in fact may be a hot bed for tourism . I have personally been to both Prague and Bologna and they are great cities both with large tourist markets . I can see it being very economical to fly a wide body airliner there full of tourists and maybe only a few locals . While layovers may attract the lower budget fliers there are plenty of people who prefer a direct flight for both the convenience and time savings . You may be able to find more <URL> .
By sweeping wing backwards , you essentially make the air ' see ' another airfoil . Look at these two diagrams : When the air meets the wing , it travels along $ V$ . This ' seen ' airfoil is a lot thinner than $ V1 $ ( which is perpendicular to the leading edge ) . As the aircraft experiences less pressure , the aircraft experiences less drag . However , this also reduces the velocity of the air . This is good if you 're looking to delay things such as shockwaves as the air goes supersonic , since spreading the force out more delays this effect and the flow separation which comes with it . Unfortunately , for all the advantages , It would have a very high landing speed . So the wings are swept forward , the aircraft has a more effective aerofoil for lower speeds , and the minimum airspeed decreases correspondingly . There is now more drag , but also more lift which you need for the slower speed . <URL> puts this nicely in not all too-complex terms : If we were to begin to slide the wing sideways ( spanwise ) , the sideways motion of the wing relative to the air would be added to the previously perpendicular airflow , resulting in an airflow over the wing at an angle to the leading edge . This angle results in airflow traveling a greater distance from leading edge to trailing edge , and thus the air pressure is distributed over a greater distance ( and consequently lessened at any particular point on the surface ) . This scenario is identical to the airflow experienced by a swept wing as it travels through the air . The airflow over a swept wing encounters the wing at an angle . That angle can be broken down into two vectors , one perpendicular to the wing , and one parallel to the wing . The flow parallel to the wing has no effect on it , and since the perpendicular vector is shorter ( meaning slower ) than the actual airflow , it consequently exerts less pressure on the wing . In other words , the wing experiences airflow that is slower - and at lower pressures - than the actual speed of the aircraft . One of the factors that must be taken into account when designing a high-speed wing is compressibility , which is the effect that acts upon a wing as it approaches and passes through the speed of sound . The significant negative effects of compressibility made it a prime issue with aeronautical engineers . Sweep theory helps mitigate the effects of compressibility in transonic and supersonic aircraft because of the reduced pressures . This allows the mach number of an aircraft to be higher than that actually experienced by the wing . Is there a performance gain ? Depends on your definition : Having fixed swept wings would imply that : The landing speed might be unacceptably high , and with that , long runways would be required . You could design a fast and light aircraft.Take the F104 Starfighter for example , which had thin , short wings for the same effect but could n't move them , and was extremely dangerous at slow speeds . Having variable wings : The F14 was intended for carrier operations , where you would want a slow landing speed . Making an aircraft go that fast would probably have been impossible otherwise . It was also designed for long range operations , adding weight of fuel . Adds weight and mechanical complexity to the airframe , which increases maintenance cost and fuel burn . If I understand it correctly , today aircraft today rely more on system such as high-lift devices like for instance slats and flaps .
Static wicks are mostly found on aircraft that fly in <URL> because static charges typically build up when flying in precipitation , not in clear air . So you wo n't find static wicks on helicopters that are certified only for visual conditions , like the R-22 , R-44 , Bell 206 , piston Enstroms , etc. , but you will find static wicks on helis that are certified for IFR . [ Static wicks ] are used on aircraft to allow the continuous satisfactory operation of onboard navigation and radio communication systems during precipitation ( p-static ) conditions . Precipitation static is an electrical charge on an airplane caused by flying through rain , snow , ice , or dust particles . When the aircraft charge is great enough , it discharges into the surrounding air . <URL>
Here in the US the FAA can impose a type rating on any aircraft it likes ( see part 3 below ) . Generally speaking type ratings are either for big planes or planes that may require additional training for safety reasons . You can find the full regulations relating to US type ratings in the FAR under <URL> but basically , ( a ) Type ratings required . A person who acts as a pilot in command of any of the following aircraft must hold a type rating for that aircraft : ( 1 ) Large aircraft ( except lighter-than-air ) . ( 2 ) Turbojet-powered airplanes . ( 3 ) Other aircraft specified by the Administrator through aircraft type certificate procedures . In specific relation to the Malibu the US FAA does not require a type rating , you can find a <URL> . However it should be noted that to fly Pipers <URL> and <URL> Malibu variants , both of which have a service ceiling over 25,000 Ft you would need a <URL> ( along with all the other endorsements for a high performance plane like that ) . The JAA may require such a rating due to the pressurization system in the plane .
Aircraft have fixed gears ( when they have gears at all ) ! However in a sense a variable-pitch propeller can be considered analogous to transmission in a car and it was manual in some aircraft . The power transmitted by propeller is , within some reasonable range , proportional to its rotation rate . And so is , again within some reasonable range , the power produced by the engine . So for slow planes a fixed pitch propeller with connected by fixed gear does a decent job . As you open the throttle , the engine speed increases , so does the propeller and that 's exactly what it needs to do to transmit the power . Simpler aircraft have no gears at all and propeller is mounted directly on the engine shaft , higher power engines often have 2:1 reduction gear as the engine rpm would be too high for a propeller . Now at higher speed , the apparent propeller pitch is reduced as the air is already moving , so it would spin faster and faster and eventually too fast for the engine . To counter this , faster propeller-driven aircraft have variable pitch propeller . As speed increases , it is set to higher angle of attack ( coarser ) so it keeps delivering power without increasing rpm . Early variable pitch propellers had manually controlled pitch , but quite quickly constant speed propellers were developed ( many WWII aircraft had them already ) where a weight-on-spring controls the propeller pitch so that constant rpm is maintained . The manually controlled units required a lot of attention and the constant-speed system is rather simple , so manual pitch control was quickly abandoned . And that is kind of equivalent to perfect variable gear transmission . The pilot still has a throttle lever and a propeller pitch lever and selects power and rpm independently . Higher rpm allow higher power , but do n't require it , so landing is usually done with low power , but max rpm so the engine reacts quickly if power is added ( does not need to spin up ) . During cruise some more moderate value is selected ( according to manufacturer recommendation ) to reduce wear of the engine . Turboprop engines always have constant-speed propellers , because in a turbine engine the difference between turbine speed at idle and at full power is not actually that big . Again the rpm limits maximum power , so landing is done with low power , but high rpm and the engine reacts quickly when power is added . Last the turbojet/turbofan engines just turn the turbines and compressors as they need . It 's not much different from the fixed propeller really , though the jet engines now usually have variable guide vanes in the stator ( that are just linked to rpm ) .
Dust does damage the blades but the effect is like sand blasting ; it takes some time to cause structural damage . The turbine engines of airliners can take some dust ( by design ) but also get extensive maintenance regularly . And if they do get caught in a dust storm they should get out ASAP and get the engines inspected . The biggest danger dust-wise is volcanic ash as that will adhere to the turbine blades behind the combustion chamber and potentially shut the engine down due to compressor stall . This happened with <URL> where all 4 engines failed . This is why a volcano can <URL> .
<URL> provides cloud tops for weather with precipitation . Cloud tops with no precip can be discerned from data provided in the Skew-t log ℗ charts that are part of this app <URL> Where the temperature and dew point on the skew-t charts are converged you can expect clouds . If the convergence extends into the freezing level indicated on the chart you can expect icing .
It is the larger aircraft that came first . Historically , the runway length ( and design ) of an airport has depended on the aircraft operating there ( among other things ) , though this is changing . For example , the <URL> : The main runways -- RWY 04/22 and RWY 13/31 -- were continually lengthened during post WW II operations which kept them in line with the demands of the aviation industry until the mid 1960s ... The runway required for the aircraft depends on the take-off weight and the lesser runway length restricts the payload or range . As a result , for economical operation , the runway needs to be longer . However , there are other constraints to consider : For large aircraft , the runway ( and taxiway ) width , apron and parking space are important considerations . In most cases , lengthening the runway will be easier than taking care of these other constraints . In the end , airports have to weigh the benefits of letting heavier aircraft operate against the resources required for runway lengthening . For major airports ( like Heathrow , for example ) , the cost of runway expansion will run into the billions . Unless the aircraft is going to be operated regularly ( which depends on how many airports it can land ) , there is no point in lengthening the runway in an airport . The economic operation of the aircraft has to be considered . For example , the A380 was designed around a 80m ' box ' , which the airlines had decided is the maximum size they can operate economically . A bigger aircraft does not mean more runway required . For example , the A380 requires ( slightly ) lesser runway compared to 747-400 . If it comes to that , aircraft requiring more runway can takeoff from smaller ones . For example , a Boeing Dreamlifter once <URL> runway ( it normally requires > 9000ft ) . The airports with longest runways have them for different reasons - the Qamdo Bamda Airport ( 5500m runway ) has a long runway due to its elevation ( > 4300m above MSL ) , while the Ramenskoye Airport as a long runway ( 5400m ) due to the aircraft operated there ; it was a test facility , for among other things , the Soviet Buran spacecraft .
In general , helicopters require less power while flying forward ( or backwards ) compared to hover as translational lift ( of Effective Translational Lift , ETL ) is produced . Even though the blades are providing lift by rotation , the airspeed experienced by the blades is different if wind is present . For example , if there is headwind $ v $ , the advancing blades will have an airspeed of $ r \ omega + v $ , while the retreating blade will have an airspeed of $ r \ omega - v $ . As lift is proportional to square of airspeed , the implications are obvious . For this reason , it is preferable to take off into the wind , rather than take off vertically . <URL> Note that the power required is same for headwind or tailwind . However , tailwind landing ( or takeoff ) has some disadvantages from stability and power management point of view that is it generally discouraged , like : In case of landing in tail wind , it is very difficult to abort landing and re-gain forward airspeed . Moving from negative speed to forward speed initially decreases the air speed the main rotor experiences , and the Power Curve shows an initial increase in Power Required . As the helicopter accelerates from negative ( ground ) speed , the main rotor system loses translational lift before it goes through zero airspeed . As a result , the power required increases , which requires increased pedal application and tail rotor power , precisely when the power requirement is high . If there is a power failure , the chances of safe landing is reduced . There is more risk of running out of directional control . In case there is a tailwind , the helicopter vertical tail ( and fuselage ) may align try to align with the wind , resulting in uncommanded yaw . If not corrected with proper pedal input , this may lead to loss of control . In case of landing , the possibility of brownout or whiteout conditions is more in case of tailwind .
Yes , aircraft have fire-protection systems as well with many of the materials being of such a sort . From <URL> about the fire-resistant/fire-suppression systems on their aircraft . You can see that most of the aircraft is covered in these materials . Emphasis mine . Interior components of Boeing airplanes meet flammability requirements prescribed in Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations ( CFR ) Part 25 . These components include : For materials in areas not covered by the CFR requirements , Boeing design guidelines are used to identify additional flammability , smoke , and toxicity requirements . The standards for flammability of insulation blankets have improved over time . A recent requirement change calls for the enhancement of the fire-protective features of insulation blankets in the event of an in-flight or post-crash fire . The latest standard increases protection by minimizing the contribution of the insulation blankets to the propagation of a fire . Thermal/acoustic insulation installed behind cabin interior panels with the appropriate fire-resistant properties can delay the onset of fire into the cabin in the event of a crash ( see fig. 1 ) . The insulation blankets , along with the airplane skin , must be capable of resisting burn-through from a fuel-fed post-crash fire next to the bottom half of the fuselage for a minimum of four minutes to allow passengers to evacuate the airplane before burn-through can occur . You can also find out much more in that webpage about the various active and passive fire-suppression systems in aircraft . The FAA Regulation about these systems can be found <URL> in PDF format .
There is plenty of information on the Internet on how <URL> , however the codes are sometimes not directly assigned by ICAO , <URL> . ICAO Document 7910 - Location Identifiers contains codes allocated by national governments , on behalf of ICAO , to airports , airfields and other facilities such as ATC and weather stations . Ultimately , it is the national CAA 's or other authorities ' decision whether to assign a code and get it validated through ICAO . The decision may be based on political , historical or other reasons , there is no minimum requirements for airports to receive an ICAO code . Am I correct in assuming that airports without ICAO codes do n't have codes because of the lack of a control tower ? Or is there other reasons for this ? The availability of a control tower is not a requirement for ICAO codes , even small uncontrolled fields with grass strips can have an ICAO code , example : <URL> <URL>
Yes they do . You can <URL> . That 's a failed launch from an aircraft carrier , the crew jettisoned the bombs before they ejected . More information here : <URL> , emphasis on use in aircraft carrier launches , hardpoints also carry external fuel tanks . ... if forced to land in an emergency ? If not , why ? For extreme military emergencies , which usually never end well , pilots have the option to just bail out ( eject ) and parachute to safety . For big bombers , like the B-52 , the crew can also eject . But ca n't dump fuel . <URL> But the question is about weapons , so again yes , mainly for carrier launches , else , a crew ejection is more likely . <URL> for fuel dumping by USAF planes ( USAF report , PDF ) , if interested .
Short answer : For clarification : Equivalence between biplane and monoplane means than both have the same wing area and the same engine . Then the main differences in maneuvering are : The biplane has better roll acceleration than an equivalent monoplane . The biplane has a higher roll rate than an equivalent monoplane at the same speeds . All biplane flying takes place at lower speeds , resulting in a lower space requirement for all maneuvers . This also means that inertial effects are less pronounced : When pulling up , there is less kinetic energy available for climbing , so ( for example ) hammerhead turns will end with less altitude gain . Differences in handling : The biplane has lower aileron forces for the same roll rate at the same speed lighter control forces overall due to lower flight speed Differences in performance : shorter take-off and landing distances a lower stall speed a much lower maximum speed a lower optimum cruise speed and range a lower power requirement due to the lower flying speeds , or if both use the same engine , a better power-to-weight ratio when compared to an equivalent monoplane . These differences are most pronounced if the airplane carries just the pilot and not much payload . Flying techniques are the same as for monoplanes . Indirectly , differences are likely due to differences in design . Example : Few biplanes profit from having a retractable landing gear while gear retraction makes sense for monoplanes with higher power loading ( installed power relative to wing area ) . Explanation Biplanes have two major differences : Smaller wing span at the same wing area , and Wire bracing results in very lightweight biplane wings . The smaller span reduces roll damping and roll inertia , so a biplane will accelerate into a roll more quickly than an equivalent monoplane and will reach a higher roll rate . This is the main difference in maneuvering . The smaller wing span results in more induced drag if both have the same mass and the same speed . With wire bracing , this condition is unrealistic , and an equivalent biplane will be much lighter . If the structure is a substantial part of the aircraft 's mass ( this is typical for aerobatic airplanes ) , the result can easily be less induced drag , despite the lower span , and also lower wing loading . This in turn means that both fly at different speeds : The biplane will be able to fly much slower , but the aerodynamic drag of the bracing will restrict it to low speeds . This also means inertial effects are less pronounced : The lower mass and lower speed of the biplane combine for a marked difference to the equivalent monoplane . For aerobatic displays this is ideal : All action takes place close to the audience , and the biplane will need a much smaller area for all maneuvers than an equivalent , but heavier monoplane . The downside are low maximum speed and low range . Another difference in performance are much shorter take-off and landing distances due to the lower wing loading , which results in a lower stall speed . The optimum endurance and optimum range speeds are lower than those of an equivalent monoplane as well , so all biplane flying happens at lower speeds , which is beneficial for training aircraft . Since control forces are proportional to dynamic pressure , a biplane will have lower control forces than an equivalent monoplane . Here equivalence also means that the relative chord of all control surfaces is the same . In reality , a good designer will select a higher relative chord for the biplane 's control surfaces to ensure that control forces are above their required minimum . The heavy , unreliable engines of the early years made biplanes the ideal way of taking to the air . Once engines became more powerful and allowed higher payloads , the monoplane became better suited to carrying passengers and freight at higher speeds and over longer distances .
All parts of an airliner 's horizontal surface move , not just the rear part . The rear part , called an elevator , can move much faster and is for maneuvering . The forward part , called a ( trimmable ) stabilizer , is for trimming and moves slowly . It is moved in response to changes in loading , speed or flap settings and positions the tail surface such that only small continuous elevator deflections are needed . It does n't need to move fast - high load factors would upset the passengers and overload the structure . <URL> A330 port tailplane root ( picture <URL> ) . Note the markings which show the range of incidence angles covered by the trimmable stabilizer . Benefits of a stabilizer-elevator configuration : Camber : The elevator deflection changes the camber of the airfoil of the tail surface and makes the production of the intended lift change more efficient . If the elevator deflection is supposed to create a downforce , negative camber is produced and vice versa . This reduces the drag which is created in order to maneuver the aircraft . Lower control forces : By moving a smaller surface , less hydraulics power , and on small aircraft , less muscle power is needed for the same moment change than with a full-flying tail or all-moving surface . Makes sense , right ? Better tailoring of the hinge moment derivatives : Two effects are important for getting the control forces right : The change in hinge moment over deflection angle ( $ c _ { r \ eta } $ ) , and the change in hinge moment over angle of attack ( $ c _ { r \ alpha } $ ) . With tabs , the right elevator hinge position , nose shape and control horns , both can be tailored individually , while a full-flying tail or all-moving surface will give the designer less freedom to manipulate both independently . Note that full-flying tails only emerged with hydraulic controls , because only those systems can manage the control forces of all-moving control surfaces at high speed . <URL> Horn balance and overhang balance on control surfaces ( picture <URL> ) Benefits of a full-flying tail surface By avoiding a contour break due to a flap deflection , all-moving control surfaces can avoid the shocks which would otherwise occur at high subsonic speed . This is their main benefit for combat aircraft . At supersonic speed , the uncambered surface will produce less drag , so for supersonic speed the all-moving control surface is more efficient . By moving all of the tail surface at high speed , an all-moving control surface will produce the highest rate of moment change over time possible . To produce also the highest sustained moment change , however , it needs to be larger than a comparable stabilizer-elevator combination because it forfeits the benefits of variable camber . The all-moving control surface has no gaps which could add radar reflections , allowing for a more stealthy design . Lower mechanical complexity . This is somewhat offset by the need for much beefier hydraulics .
No , but a hat to protect the head from the sun . You may call this the glider pilot 's headset ;-) <URL> Glider pilot with hat ( picture <URL> ) The flight noise is just a faint hissing sound , and the most noise is either produced by the electrical variometer or the radio . On a busy day and with everyone on the same frequency , I often switched the radio silent when high up . When you receive transmissions from tens of kilometers away , you often receive parallel transmissions , which result in a very loud and annoying crackling in the radio .
The magic regulation for minimum equipment on a balloon ( in the USA ) is <URL> . The FAA requires that balloons be equipped with : For all balloons [ Reserved ] An altimeter . A rate of climb indicator . For hot air balloons ( additional equipment ) : A fuel quantity gauge . An envelope temperature indicator . For captive gas balloons ( additional equipment ) : A compass . Beyond what 's required by regulation , in most free balloon operations I 've seen they also carry an aviation radio and/or a CB radio ( to communicate with their ground crew ) - this is usually a handheld transceiver . <URL> also makes for interesting reading . They talk about required and optional instruments and equipment found on various types of balloons in Chapter 2 .
It depends on what you mean by trim . If you mean a a mechanism that allows the pilot to reduce the control forces in order to allow the helicopter to be flown hands off , then the answer is a qualified yes . If you mean a trim tab attached to a control surface , then the answer is no . Many airplanes which have a trim control do not use a trim tab . For example , Pipers have an anti-servo tab on the elevator , which the pilot uses to reduce control forces . Since helicopters are unstable -- meaning if you take your hand off the cyclic the aircraft will be in an unusual attitude within a second -- nothing short of electronics and actuators will allow a heli to be flown hands off . But every heli except the smallest ones , have considerable stick forces , which make them difficult to impossible to handle without some kind of assistance . The simplest setup is what you find on the original 4-seat R-44 Astro , which lacked hydraulic assist . On top of the cyclic you will find a 4-way " hat " switch which uses electrical actuators on the cyclic to reduce the control forces necessary to fly it . Larger helicopters have hydraulic assist , which allows the copter to be controlled with just two fingers . Inop hydraulics is considered an emergency . Big helicopters have a <URL> , which allows the helicopter to be flown hands off . An SAS is required for IFR flight .
The <URL> , in <URL> and the <URL> , explains VFR helicopter operations at controlled airports . The procedure will depend on the airport and the current traffic . Insofar as possible , helicopter operations will be instructed to avoid the flow of fixed-wing aircraft to minimize overall delays ; however , there will be many situations where faster/larger helicopters may be integrated with fixed-wing aircraft for the benefit of all concerned . Helicopters may operate from a designated helicopter landing area . The tower is responsible for separating them from other traffic . The helicopter can fly a much closer pattern than other aircraft , and may stay on the other side of the runway from the typical pattern . They may also operate straight in/out of the landing area , depending on wind and traffic . They may also be cleared to take off or land in a " nonmovement " area that is not specifically designated for that activity , which could be a ramp at the airport or a location off-airport . This will be up to the tower to provide clearance and the pilot to execute safely . Helicopters can also operate similarly to fixed-wing aircraft , taking off and landing using a runway , and following taxiways . Wheeled helicopters taxi on the ground . Otherwise , helicopters may either hover taxi , where they fly in ground effect at low speed , or air taxi , where they will fly out of ground effect up to 100 ft AGL and up to 60 kts , as directly as possible to the next point on the field , avoiding obstacles as needed . Like ratchet freak says , they will generally come in horizontally while descending , flying into the wind , and then come into hover , where they will then be instructed by the tower to taxi to wherever they are going on the field . Some airports , like in this photo of " spot Charlie " on <URL> , may have marked spots on the taxiways or non-movement areas for helicopter operations . In this case , students practicing landings and autorotations will be instructed : " Clear to land , Spot Charlie " to keep them off of the main runway 28L , while in left traffic on the opposite side of the runway of the smaller 28R . As with any aircraft , the final authority for safety is the pilot , and they must be aware of their limitations and the conditions around them . At non-towered airports , the procedures can be similar . The pilot should take the wind direction and traffic into account , and announce their intentions on the appropriate frequency .
The 25 hours that are not required to be " instrument instruction " may be flown under the hood with a safety pilot . This is the usual way to accumulate some of the simulated instrument time . I believe this time may also be flown &amp; logged in actual IMC with an instrument rated pilot acting as PIC ( their name on the flight plan , etc. ) and the instrument student acting as sole manipulator of the controls , but you may prefer to conduct your actual IMC practice with an instructor .
end question
start question
Is it possible to perform the Lomcovak manoeuvre in a C152 aerobat ?
The list of approved maneuvers is in the POH , and I 'm sure the Lomcovak is not listed . If you are willing to do unapproved maneuvers , the issue is that because the aircraft tumbles rather than flies in this maneuver you have a few things to worry about : it starts with an outside maneuver , it is inverted , and the exit requires a high-speed dive which will exceed Vne or the +6 g the 152 Aerobat is rated for .
It 's entirely possible . Attitude control works the same way during autorotation as it does during normal powered flight . It 's a good thing , too ... during an autorotation you want to target your descent toward a suitable landing spot :-) To ( say ) roll right , moving the cyclic causes the swashplate to move in such a way that the rotor blade 's pitch ( angle of attack ) is greater during the left-side portion of the blade 's travel , and lower during the right-side portion . This produces more lift on the left side , which causes a right-rolling moment on the helicopter . The fact that the collective is all the way down and that the rotor 's RPM is being maintained by airflow through the rotor does not change the way the cyclic produces attitude changes . The anti-torque pedals still work too , although during an autorotation the pilot will promptly apply full right pedal , since lowering the collective will essentially eliminate torque from the rotor . Pedals can still be used for yaw though , as the tail rotor is still spinning ( it is linked to the main rotor ) . The " 180 ° turning autorotation " is a common maneuver taught in basic training , where the pilot must set up the autorotative descent and then complete a 180 ° turn toward a landing spot . For more information about autorotations in general , I recommend the FAA 's ( free online ) <URL> . See page 2-24 for a general description , and page 11-2 for procedures/technique . There are also lots of autorotation demonstration videos on <URL> that show maneuvering to a landing spot / 180 ° turns during the auto .
There are 4 classes of cargo compartments listed in <URL> for transport category airplanes . The main concern with in-flight access is in regards to fire safety . Class A : Crew will easily discover fire from their station ( and therefore be able to suppress it as well ) Class B : There is a fire/smoke detection system , and access for crewmember to use a hand fire extinguisher Class C : There is a fire/smoke detection system to alert the crew , and a fire extinguishing/suppressing system installed Class E : For cargo-only aircraft ( no passengers ) : There is a fire/smoke detector , and a way to shut off air flow to the compartment So basically , there has to be some way to both detect and address a cargo fire . Class A compartments are those such as in the cockpit where a detection system is not necessary . It sounds like the ATR example would be Class B , since they had a fire indication , and the crew had access to extinguish the fire themselves . In larger planes with cargo in the lower hold , the compartments are usually Class C , so they have a detection system and a suppression system , and in-flight access is not required . As <URL> notes , the compartment may be accessible , but that does n't mean that crew could effectively locate or fight a fire in those areas . Especially for large cargo holds , a fire suppression system installed througout the hold is much more effective than crew members gaining access at certain locations . This also provides the benefit of isolating the main cabin from the fire extinguishing agents . Besides fires , there are <URL> where cargo compartment access could be helpful . But even in that case , it was better for the plane to just come back and land to access the cargo compartment .
In the movie Flight ( 2012 ) , Captain Whittaker ( Denzel Washington ) does not explain why he deliberately inverted his aircraft , but the obvious inference is : since the horizontal stabilizer has slipped off its jackscrew and become jammed into a descent angle beyond the authority of the elevators to correct , in inverted flight this would push the nose far above the horizon and result in either a climb or a stall . In this attitude , Whittaker would have been pulling back on the yoke to prevent the stall . In the movie , this worked . The aircraft was still not under control , but was no longer diving and overspeeding . Suddenly rolling the aircraft upright in the last seconds before contact with terrain is the unrealistic part . A hot fighter jet might accomplish this but the roll rate of a passenger jet is too slow . The movie 's flight emergency is based mostly on the crash of Alaska Airlines flight 261 on January 31 , 2000 . In that incident , the pilots experienced a jammed horizontal stabilizer with uncontrollable dive , and inverted their MD-80 to arrest their descent . Unfortunately in real life neither flying officer was stuffed to the gills with booze and coke : the maneouver failed and the aircraft crashed with no survivors .
No , it is almost impossible . The only runway ( 06/24 ) Lukla Airport is just 1500 feet long . This <URL> lists some interesting facts : The topography of the place makes any go-around impossible . At the south , the runway is the end of an angled drop of about 2000 feet . This cliff is fenced off as a precautionary measure . At the northern end of the runway there is a huge mountain terrain . It leaves no room for error . A pilot mentions the same <URL> : " Because there is no way to go around again , we have to calculate many things like air speed , tail wind , fog . If you do n't do the proper calculation or proper exercise , then it ( an accident ) happens . " Planes land on runway 06 ( Heading 060 or ENE ) and takeoff from runway 24 ( Heading 240 or WSW ) . This picture shows the cliff on North : There have been several <URL> at this airport .
According to <URL> 's medical guru on their discussion board ( members only , or I would link to an example ) it is possible to get a medical certificate following a tumor removal but only after a 5-year wait and a battery of tests . But having said that , medical issues are very individual and the FAA 's <URL> suggests that one year is enough in some cases . In the end the only way to get a definite answer is to find a good AME who can review your case in detail and advise you . Note that standard advice is to schedule a consultation first , rather than go straight for the actual flight medical . Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor or AME and I have no idea how brains work :-)
In theory , it is perfectly legal to do your primary training in a jet . It is becoming common in militaries to do initial training in turboprops . <URL> Managing such a turboprop aircraft is actually simpler than managing your typical piston aircraft . One button start . One lever engine control . Maybe some day that will become a single engine jet .
You ca n't control the radio volume separately for the passengers but you can control the intercom volume separately . If the passengers ' headsets have individual volume controls you can ask them to turn down the volume and you can then compensate by turning up the passenger volume for the intercom . That way the overall intercom volume will be about the same but the radio/ATC volume will be lowered . If all else fails , you could turn off the radio completely for your passengers :-)
Per the AIM ( <URL> ) The visual glide path of the PAPI typically provides safe obstruction clearance within plus or minus 10 degrees of the extended runway centerline and to 4 SM from the runway threshold . ( Deviations from that are supposed to be noted in the Airport/Facility Directory , for example if the clearance path is offset from the centerline , or theoretically if you could use a parallel PAPI ... ) A few miles out you 're probably within the 10 degree arc , so the PAPI will be useful , but as you get closer that arc narrows , <URL> ( like the FAA-Standard 50-foot tree right at the threshold line ) . Also <URL> you 're not supposed to be using parallel PAPIs/VASIs for approach guidance - It 's a good cross-check , but not a primary reference .
Although I used to think this was impossible , I now believe this can be done using weathervaning . At a fast enough forward speed , the airflow will naturally keep the helicopter facing in that direction . For an example of someone doing this in reality , for an almost identical time period that OP requested , see this link : <URL> According to the link , he needed to maintain 80 knots forward speed to prevent it from rotating out of control . Note whether this is possible may well depend on the weathervaning charactistics of the particular helicopter .
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
I believe the answer , at least in the US is 20 hours of flight time , plus however long a checkride takes . A sport pilot can carry a single passenger and the minimum requirements are outlined in <URL> : If you are applying for a sport pilot certificate with [ ... ] Airplane category and single-engine land or sea class privileges , Then you must log at least [ ... ] 20 hours of flight time , including at least 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a single-engine airplane and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311 , If a sport pilot applicant logged exactly 20 hours , got signed off , and then passed their checkride on the first attempt ... they would be able to fly passengers as soon as they completed the checkride . That means , realistically , probably 21 to 21.5 hours .
Even for zero payload , no B707 model is able to fly more than 6000nmi ( 11111km ) . B727 even has less range . However , Iranair planned to run Tehran-LAX flight , which length is 12222km , but never materialized because of 1979 revolution . The flight could have been operated by the 747SP ( introduced in 1976 ) , similar to their Tehran-JFK route . <URL> <URL>
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
As DeltaLima said , it is kind of hard answering your question . After looking at the <URL> you might have found the answer already . Let me try to answer your specific question though : Assuming an airliner , let 's say the A320 , for some reason got into a spin , can it be recovered ? The general answer would be yes ! Here are some things to consider though : The FAA requires all single-engine normal category aircraft to demonstrate spin recovery in <URL> . It depends a lot on the center of gravity of the airplane whether it is recoverable from a spin or not . If the center of gravity is too far aft , it will not be recoverable from a spin . Gliders , being light , have an easy shiftable CG , and there is some that do n't enter spins at all or need extra weights in the back in order to make them spinnable ! Airliners are not required to do so as they are not as likely to get into a spin in the first place ! The structure of an airliner is designed for air flowing over it , not for being in a spin ! Centrifugal forces will be applied to the structure due to angular acceleration . Also , spins by airliner would be a lot faster then by little aircraft and more forces would be applied to the frame . If the recovery from the spin is made too fast or abrupt , it can overstress the airplane as well ! All Airbus I know are fly-by-wire , and Airbus is well known for its computer based controls . Most airliners have a lot of systems , which prevent them from even getting into a stall . There a incidents where these systems failed and it went back to the pilot doing the right thing . As a spin always always always requires a stall first , and pilots are trained to avoid stalls in the first place , it is very unlikely for an airliner to enter a spin , having the pilot and various systems working against entering a stall !
I work in this area and , to my knowledge , I never heard about any special aid to help the pilot . They know precisely which are the wind speed limitations to do the work safely , the rest is basically skill . What they do install in helicopters , is the so called Wire Strike Protection System ( WSPS ) , which should cut the cable if the helicopter strikes it , avoiding damages on the main rotor ( see the picture <URL> that Bell has two WSPS , one over the cabin another underneath the avionics bay ) . But this is more important on power line inspection , which is made at around 60-80 km/h with cameras and LiDARs . When the helicopter is hovering by the cables this does n't bring much aid . But this is a risky job anyway and if you search , you will find plenty of accidents which happened with helicopters and power lines .
F-16D / E Block-60 is an evolutionary upgrade to the F-16A / B Block-15 with the following differences : Engine : General Electric F110-GE-132 in place of Pratt &amp; Whitney F100-PW-200 turbofan . Avionics : This is where the majority of upgrades have been carried out . Block 60 has the AN/APG -80 ' Agile Beam ' AESA radar , AN/ASQ -28 IFTS ( Internal FLIR and Targeting System ) replacing the earlier external pods , ALQ-165 electronic countermeasures system , improved pilot displays , improved mission computer and ability to fire more weapons like AIM-132 and AGM-154 . The main structural modification is the addition of conformal fuel tanks in the wings , with slight change in dimensions and increase in MTO weight - 46,000 lb vs 37,500 lb <URL> F-16 Block 20 , Image from f-16 . net <URL> F-16 Block 60 , Image from f-16 . net Though it is possible to upgrade block 15 to block 60 ( albeit with some heavy modifications ) , the question is why anyone one would do that . Even the youngest Block 15 aircraft is nearly 20 years old ( the last aircraft rolled off the assembly line in 1996 ) and LM has shut down the F-16 production line . The upgrade will be costly ( you 're changing some of the costliest items in the aircraft - avionics and engines ) and will not be cost-effective in an aircraft past half its service life . Also , as far as I know LM does n't offer any upgrades from Block 15 to 60 , indicating consumer indifference .
Absolutely not , as it would not be in the sense of security . It would block engine sounds ( eg you wo n't be able to hear a rough engine ) It would block warning sounds , for example stall warnings It would block any other abnormal sounds You will have problems understanding ATC ( and they will have even more problems understanding you ) These are just some reasons out of my head . If you want to listen to music inflight , buy a good headset with an AUX-In socket , those normally reduce the volume as soon as a transmission is incoming . And apart from the audio volume , it would also put a high load on the battery / alternator , which are probably not able to handle such a high load .
A meteorite could hit an airplane , sure . There 's no known cases of it happening because meteorites which survive atmospheric entry are very rare , and airplanes are pretty small so the likelihood of it happening is extremely low .
end question
start question
Where can I find registration information of a private aircraft registered in Germany ?
I do n't think the information is accessible on a public website . According to the <URL> the Luftfahrtbundesamt ( LBA , the German Civil Aviation Authorities ) can not publish the information for data protection law reasons . On their <URL> ( in German ) they state that they do release information to members of the public at a fee ( they love that here ) . A little bit of link-clicking later you will find that you have to pay 40 euros . I am not sure whether they can release the name of the owner . The law ( Luftverkehrsgesetz ) governing the information in the register can be found <URL> .
In short : Yes , you can . The FAA does n't really care , as long as you 're not going to interrupt class B or C operations . And honestly as long as you 're not hosting a dozen other aircraft , how are they going to tell the difference between a field and an airstrip ? If you want it on a chart or you are near special airspace , you need to contact the FSDO and talk to them about it ( it 's good to do that anyway ) . They will send someone out to survey it and talk with you , and hopefully approve it . It 's the local authorities that usually ends up being troublesome . Your state/county/city might have laws that apply , and you 'll need to find that out on your own . A friend of mine spent just a few days talking/meeting with the FAA on his strip , but spent weeks dealing with the state transportation department and a local ban on new grass strips which he sat right on the border of ( as in it was a ban in a 50 mile radius and his house was on mile 50 ) . Persistence is key , good luck !
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
The FAA has <URL> . Basically it boils down to this : If your registration has expired you still have ~ 90 days to register the aircraft If a renewal application was first received by the Registry after the expiration date , the renewal process no longer applies . An aircraft owner may apply for registration of an unregistered aircraft under 14 C.F.R. § 4731 ( a ) , by filing an Aircraft Registration Application , <URL> , the $ 5.00 registration fee , and evidence of ownership ( if it is not already on file at the Registry ) . So it 's a " new registration " , but you can keep your N number . ( Yes , you have to use an official , FAA-Provided 8050-1 form - you ca n't download them anymore . You 're also going to want to talk to someone at the <URL> or your local FSDO before you start filling out forms because you do n't want your form to show up after the 90 day window or you wind up in the other category ... ) After about 90 days your N number is Cancelled &amp; unavailable for 5 years When an aircraft registration is not renewed , the cancellation of the N-number assigned to that aircraft will take place approximately 90 days after the expiration of an aircraft 's registration . Upon cancellation , an N-number will be unavailable for re-assignment or reservation for a period of five years . At this point you have to talk the aircraft registration branch , but my understanding is you are out of luck -- That N number is void and a new number will be issued when you register the aircraft ( at which point you must apply the new N number to the aircraft in accordance with <URL> , which typically means repainting at least part of the tail ) . You must get a new airworthiness certificate bearing the new registration number from your local FSDO . In both of these cases your airworthiness certificate is invalid * ( because without a valid registration you have no authority to operate the aircraft ) . In the first case you will not need a replacement airworthiness certificate ( because your N number has n't changed ) , but if your N number has been cancelled you will need a new airworthiness certificate issued with the new N number on it . Total time for all the paperwork to be processed depends on which bucket you fall into -- the aircraft registration branch usually has about a 30-day backlog ( <URL> ) , plus time for the post office to move the paper from point A to point B , so a lag of a little over 30 days is what you should expect . If a replacement airworthiness certificate is required that will probably add a few days to the process as well .
I have already found answer for my problem . ACES and FACET from NASA Aviation System Division solve my problem . It should handle all statistical data , it has statistical output as well and it could also handle meteorological data . Currently this SW use FAA and some airline companies to modelate ATM concepts ( aviationsystemsdivision.arc.nasa.gov ) . Thanks for all your help !
The thrust T of a rotor can be given as : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 $ $ With : $ \ rho $ = air density [ 1.225 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ ] at sea level $ A$ = area of the rotor disc [ m $ ^ 2 $ ] $ \ omega $ = angular speed of the rotor [ rad/s ] $ C_T $ = thrust coefficient . $ C_T $ depends on the configuration of the rotor : blade pitch , number of blades , blade chord etc. . It can range from 0 to 0.01 , without knowing more about the config of your rotor we can take the average at 0.005 the value 0.001 , see update below . The torque Q follows a similar format : $ $ Q = C_Q \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot ( \ omega \ cdot R ) ^ 2 \ cdot R $ $ For a given $ C_T $ , we can look up $ C_q $ in the following figure , valid for a propeller solidity of 0.1 . For a $ C_T $ of 0.005 we find a $ C_Q $ ( = $ C_P $ ! ) of 0.0004 , for the updated $ C_T $ of 0.001 the $ C_Q $ = 0.00015 <URL> <URL> : Update The above $ C_T $ is valid for helicopter rotors . For quadcopters with their much smaller rotors , induced power losses , tip losses etc are much higher . <URL> gives a detailed discussion on $ C_T $ of small rotors , although a direct comparison can not be made since they use a different definition of $ C_T $ . With this in mind , and using the definition of $ C_T $ as above , a better choice for $ C_T $ would be 0.001 , and the corresponding $ C_Q $ is 0.00015 .
<URL> has declared values for part shipments , including one with the 140N2139-4 , which is the assembly containing the seal , mid pane , and outer pane for the 737 NG . The declared value is 24,562 INR which is currently about 375 USD . A shipment of 20 also listed has a lower unit price . For searching purposes GKN has part numbers in <URL> You typically have to ask for a quote from suppliers .
An overview of ATC related avionics can be found on the <URL> . There are a couple of things changing in 2015 . The list below includes change to ATC related avionics requirements in 2015 . In addition other avionic requirements not related to ATC are imposed , but that is outside my field of expertise . Surveillance <URL> <URL> ADS-B ADS-B ( 1090ES ) will be mandated from 7 January 2017 for aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts with an individual certificate of airworthiness first issued on or after 8 June 2016 . For aircraft certified before 8 June 2016 with the same MTOM and max cruise speed class ADS-B will be mandated after 7 June 2020 . Applies to all IFR flights in the European Civil Aviation Conference ( ECAC ) airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Elementary Surveillance ( ELS ) Mode S ELS will be mandated for all aircraft operating according to Instrument Flight Rules from 8 January 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Enhanced Surveillance ( EHS ) Mode S EHS will be mandated for new aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts from 8 January 2015 . For existing aircraft in the same MTOM and max cruise speed class Mode S EHS will be mandated after 7 December 2017 . Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Communication <URL> Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications ( CPDLC ) CPDLC ( VDL Mode 2 ) is mandated above FL285 from 5 February 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Safety Enhancements <URL> TCAS From 1 December 2015 TCAS II version 7.1 will be mandated for all aircraft build before March 2012 with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts operating in EU airspace . Aircraft first certified after 1 March 2012 already need to operate with TCAS II version 7.1 . Outside EU airspace , but within ECAC airspace , TCAS version 7.0 is still allowed .
See the notes on <URL> under the " Delivery " section . Looks like its formally called " long-line loiter " . There is a brief note on it <URL> and a US Patent <URL> and <URL> manual from the 70 's that seems to show how to do it and some related research on it . Here is a nice image of the maneuver
<URL> is such a site that offers 30-day history for METARs/SPECIs and TAFs reports . The coverage is said to be worldwide . Here is a glance at the query interface : <URL> The site states these conditions of use for the reports : About all the codified met . reports ( SYNOPS , METAR ... ) , the copyright are from every country or source institution . To use them , read <URL> . ( essentially it says it 's free for use . )
Polar curves for older airliners can be found in lecture notes or technical publications . The drag polars of the most recent ones , where no independent measurement is yet possible , are a closely guarded secret . If you see something , it will be restricted such that an important part of the puzzle is missing . For the polars to be meaningful , you need aircraft mass and flight conditions , air temperature and density and sometimes also engine thrust information to make any meaningful comparisons . Also be aware that the Airbus method to determine the reference area is different from Boeing 's , but at least those methods are published . Full disclosure is only available to potential customers on the basis of an Non-Disclosure Agreement ( NDA ) .
The maximum altitude you can operate your RC plane or copter vertically without any clearance from ATC or another government body is the upper limit of class G airspace in Germany , which is the first available airspace from to the lower vertical limit of controlled airspace C/D/E , which can be 1 , or , depending on surrounding airspace and airports in the vicinity . You can register at the website of the <URL> to obtain the ICAO charts for your area and take a look at the airspace structure near you . The actual ceiling of airspace G can be significantly lower in the vicinity of larger airports , where the controlled airspace C/D/E has been lowered . The below picture shows how the dark green section around Frankfurt Airport has an airspace C with the vertical limits . The airspace E in that area ( not visible in this picture ) has a vertical limit of . Some areas within that section already have an elevation of , which leaves less than of airspace G before the overlying airspace C begins . If you want to get your RC plane or copter into class C/D/E airspace , which is controlled airspace , you will need to obtain a clearance through the ATC unit in control of the sector or the FIS sector responsible , as postulated in <URL> § 16a LuftVO Besondere Benutzung des kontrollierten Luftraums ( 1 ) Bei Inanspruchnahme des kontrollierten Luftraums ist von der zuständigen Flugverkehrskontrollstelle eine Flugverkehrskontrollfreigabe einzuholen für 1 . Fallschirmsprünge und den Abwurf von Gegenständen an Fallschirmen ; 2 . Aufstiege von Flugmodellen und anderen fern - oder ungesteuerten Flugkörpern mit Eigenantrieb ; 3 . Aufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen mit einer Gesamtmasse von Ballonhülle und Ballast von mehr als 0,5 kg sowie Aufstiege von gebündelten unbemannten Freiballonen und Massenaufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen . Please also mind <URL> , which dictactes that any RC plane or UAV needs to remain within the visbility range of the controller , so the maximum altitude can vary depending on the size of your RC plane or copter , the weather minima at your location and your own eyesight : ( 3 ) Der Betrieb von unbemannten Luftfahrtsystemen ist verboten , wenn 1 . er außerhalb der Sichtweite des Steuerers erfolgt oder 2 . die Gesamtmasse des Geräts mehr als 25 Kilogramm beträgt . 1 : AGL = Above Ground Level 2 : MSL = Mean Sea Level
First , let 's see whether it 's legal . <URL> notes that : 7 . EXPLANATION OF CHANGES . The following changes apply to all LAHSO . a. ... b. Solo student pilots will not conduct LAHSO . However , you could interpret that as not applicable to your situation , as you are not the sole occupant of the aircraft : <URL> ( a ) General . ... The term " solo flight " as used in this subpart means that flight time during which a student pilot is the sole occupant of the aircraft ... Though it might be allowed , note it does not say must : <URL> ... Student pilots or pilots not familiar with LAHSO should not participate in the program . I 'd recommend against doing so because LAHSO can add to your workload , especially if you 're a bit nervous on your checkride . Also , the AIM note on discouraging LAHSO is rather valid and if done improperly , can affect safety . Having said that , the examiner is likely to ask questions on LAHSO during your practical examination , especially since <URL> . This may include : Requirements to accept a LAHSO clearance ATC pharseology for LAHSO Pilot responsibilities while carrying out LAHSO In any case , always remember that you do not need to accept a LAHSO clearance -- if you do not feel comfortable with doing so , ATC will provide arrangements to land full-length on the same runway or another one . You should not accept a LAHSO clearance if you believe doing so would compromise safety . Note : this does not necessarily apply to all situations where a student pilot is prohibited from doing something that a private pilot would be able to do .
No . It varies from state to state . <URL> , for example , requires tax payment but no aircraft or pilot registration . <URL> does n't require any registration and did n't mention any taxes . In <URL> , registration is required but taxes can be waived if you register your aircraft under your corporate , instead of your own name . <URL> requires registration and so does <URL> . I could not find a single resource which lists all states and their aircraft and pilot registration requirements . FAA does not have this information , probably because FAA does not care about state regulations . We can create a Wiki on this topic here .
Stapleford and Damyns Hall are both in class G airspace , so there would be no need to file a flight plan or ask permission of anyone to make the flight . The only thing you might need to do is call Damyns Hall in case they are PPR ( Prior Permission Required ) . VFR flights generally do n't need any sort of flight plan unless you are going abroad or to the channel islands . If you are going a long distance over water it 's advisable as well . If flying into Damyns Hall keep in mind that the London City zone is very close by , so make sure you stay clear of it . The London TMA is at 2,500 ft as well . Both airfields are not controlled , however both have AG radios who try to coordinate flights , you technically do n't have to communicate with them but you might not be allowed to use those airfields in the future if you do n't use it .
Under <URL> , if Germany ' validates ' your Italian license then yes , you can fly the German aircraft in other countries : Use of flight crew licences on foreign-registered aircraft Any pilot who wishes to fly on an aircraft registered in a State other than the one that has issued the licence , needs to obtain an authorization from the State of Registry . This authorization is generally given by the State of Registry through a validation or a conversion of the foreign licence . In general , the validation process is used for short-term authorization while the conversion process is used for longer-term authorization . What ' validation ' means here is up to the country where the aircraft is registered . ICAO itself does n't define what they should do : When a State validates a foreign licence , it recognizes it as valid for use on aircraft on its own registry . The Convention on International Civil Aviation and its Annex 1 do not contain specific requirements for the validation of licences beyond establishing the principle and the fact that the validity of a validation , can not be extended beyond the validity of the supporting licence . In the US specifically , these ICAO rules are implemented in <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : ( b ) Required pilot certificate for operating a foreign-registered aircraft within the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of foreign registry within the United States , unless -- ( 1 ) That person 's pilot certificate or document issued under § 61.29 ( e ) is in that person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate ; and ( 2 ) Has been issued in accordance with this part , or has been issued or validated by the country in which the aircraft is registered . Practically speaking , I would say that if you have some official piece of paper from the <URL> confirming that you are authorized to operate German aircraft - or at least this German aircraft - then you 're good to go . The piece of paper may even be unnecessary as far as Germany is concerned , but if you plan on flying internationally then I think the more pieces of official paper that you have , the better .
Simple answer ... No . You could rule out the types of planes that could land at an airport by an <URL> but there is nothing specific .
Your certificate level determines the type of operations you can conduct * , not the type of airplanes you can fly . The types of airplanes you can fly are determined by your category , class and type ratings . If you have a Private Pilot certificate with an instrument rating ( not sure if this is required , but you 'll want it either way ) and an airplane multi-engine land category and class and a B777 type rating , then yes , that person can operate the aircraft privately . He will also need an SIC and he will only be able to collect the pro-rata share of operating expenses from people he carries . He will also want to be careful in who he lets on his plane to avoid operations that are regulated under 14 CFR 119 . An example of such a pilot is John Travolta , who has a private pilot certificate with the following ratings : * Private pilots may only collect pro-rata operating expenses , Commercial pilots may be paid to act as PIC and ATPs may act as PIC in 14 CFR 121 operations .
They are searchable at FNS NOTAM search : <URL> A link is provided to a PDF , containing a link to the actual LTA . ( Filter by LTA , remember the agreement might not be with the airport , but with the ATSU , like the local TRACON/ARTCC , try searching by airport name + radius ) . Expiry date is shown in the details view .
Here it is : <URL> . At about 8 p.m. British Airways Flight 112 , traveling from John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City to Heathrow Airport in London , diverted to Bangor after smoke was discovered in the cockpit . Story was published on June 10th , 2004 . Article says Wednesday night , so it should have happened on June 9th . Both the <URL> and the NTSB do n't have any reports . It must have been a minor issue . Just a <URL> , fuel leak on departing Heathrow .
end question
start question
Why does the aspect ratio of a wing become less important at supersonic speeds ?
The two main reasons for wings with a subsonic leading edge are : The lower lift coefficient in supersonic flight , and the need to keep wing thickness down in order to minimize wave drag in supersonic flight . Your observation is correct : The lift-related drag coefficient is proportional to the inverse of the aspect ratio , regardless of flight regime for slender bodies . In all cases , lift is created by accelerating air downwards , and efficiency is better when <URL> . But another factor is the lift coefficient , the square of it to be precise . Again this influence on drag is equal for sub - and supersonic flight , but the magnitude of the lift coefficient is n't . Take the XB-70 , for example ( <URL> ) : Cruise lift coefficient : 0.1 to 0.13 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.01 to 0.0169 Takeoff lift coefficient : 1.3 to 0.73 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 1.69 to 0.533 Landing lift coefficient : 0.626 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.392 Even at the highest supersonic cruise lift coefficient , the approximated lift-dependent drag coefficient is only 4.3 % of what it is at landing speed . Supersonic drag is dominated by pressure and friction , and the cost of lift creation is dwarfed by the other sources of drag . Or let 's look at another aircraft designed for sustained supersonic flight , or more specific , it 's flight envelope ( <URL> ) : <URL> The aircraft operates in a narrow band of dynamic pressures , trading density for speed to stay within a corridor of 310 KIAS to 450 KIAS when flying at supersonic speed . Here the lift coefficient is roughly between 0.1 and 0.3 ( depending on aircraft mass and load factor ) and again much lower than at low speed , where minimum speed drops to 145 KIAS . Note that the lift wave drag formula for slender bodies is only strictly true for $ AR$ approaching zero . At higher aspect ratios and especially with a supersonic leading edge this relationship is diminished . In supersonic flow the aspect ratio only comes into play by influencing the part of the wing that is within the Mach cone of the wingtip . In other words : The supersonic flow around a slender body is everywhere influenced by tip effects , whereas the inner and forward part of a higher aspect ratio wing experiences two-dimensional flow , being blissfully unaware of lateral limitations to wingspan . Now to the structural factor : Wave drag has two components , one from lift and the other from the displacement effect . <URL> at <URL> must be avoided as much as possible , because it is doubly punished : Surfaces facing in flight direction experience higher pressure than ambient , and those facing backwards experience lower pressure ( i.e. suction ) . In all , zero-lift wave drag increases with the square of the thickness ratio , so there is no space in supersonic wings for the beefy spar a high aspect ratio wing would require .
The main benefit of biplanes is that the lift can be distributed across both wings . This provides more lift with less wingspan and places less load on each wing . Less load means the materials can have lower strength . This was very important in the early days of aviation , when engine power , materials , and weight were much more limited . The major downside of a biplane is aerodynamics . The wings interfere with each other , causing drag . While structural bracing between the wings can reduce weight , it also adds more drag . <URL> A biplane configuration does not make much sense for delta wings . The main drawback of a biplane is drag , but drag increases with the square of velocity , and delta wings are best in high-speed flight . <URL> , they have higher viscous drag due to the large surface area . A second delta wing will add more area , increasing both wave drag ( from the cross section ) and viscous drag ( from the surface ) . Configuration of the aircraft also becomes problematic . Most aircraft with delta wings tend to be fairly flat , allowing lower area and therefore lower drag . The closer the wings are , the more they will interfere . The further apart they are , the more structure is needed , either in a larger fuselage or in structural braces , which increases weight and drag .
Directional stability When a swept wing is flying in a sideslip , the windward side behaves like a wing with less effective sweep $ \ varphi _ { eff } $ and the leeward side like one with more effective sweep . Wing sweep causes a flattening of the lift curve slope for two reasons : The effective angle of attack is reduced by the cosine of the sweep angle . Only the component of speed normal to the quarter-chord line of the wing is creating lift , so a swept wing creates less lift per area than a straight wing . The increased lift rolls the aircraft , but also produces increased lift-induced drag which pulls it back to straight flight . The sketch above shows this for the <URL> . This effect is so strong that swept , high-wing configurations need anhedral to keep the sideslip-induced rolling moment down . For completeness , also the side force $ Y$ of fuselage and winglets is added and shows that the winglets help a lot to create directional stability . This is needed in case of the SB-13 because it has a nearly elliptical lift distribution . Using a triangular distribution ( N9-M ) or even a bell-shaped distribution ( <URL> flying wings ) avoids the need for winglets , but causes higher induced drag in straight flight . Another downside is a low directional stability at high speed , because this sweep effect increases with the lift coefficient on the outer wing . Longitudinal stability Wing sweep also helps in longitudinal stability by stretching out the wing lengthwise . This is important for flying wings which lack a separate tail surface . By changing flap angles at the center or the wing tips , the lift at the most forward or most backward sections can be changed for pitch control , and more sweep increases the lever arm of these changes . Also , in swept flying wings natural static stability can be achieved without the use of reflex airfoils , but by applying washout . Again , the higher the sweep angle , the less washout is required . Too much sweep ? Easily ! Sweeping a wing creates lots of problems : Sweep reduces the lift curve slope and the maximum lift of a wing . The maximum landing attitude with a highly swept , slender wing is severely limited by wing tip clearance , so swept wings need powerful high-lift devices . Sweep causes the boundary layer to be washed outboard , which will cause nasty stall behavior once a specific ratio of wing aspect ratio and sweep has been exceeded . This can be somewhat limited by wing fences , but should better be avoided altogether . Sweep changes mean that bending moments will partially get converted to torsion moments , requiring a torsional stiffening of the wing . For flying wings , sweep will let the aircraft center pitch up and down when the wing flexes . This creates a powerful interaction between the fast period mode ( which is only moderately damped in flying wings ) with the wing bending mode , resulting in flutter . Why sweep a wing at all ? Generally , an aircraft designer will allow only as much sweep as necessary . Wing sweep reduces drag when the aircraft flies with transonic or supersonic speed . Now the Mach effects depend only on the normal speed component , so they are proportional to the cosine of the sweep angle . For the N9-M this was not a factor , however , the B-2 benefits from it with a higher <URL> .
Concorde went supersonic during its climb phase to the cruising altitude . The altitude at which the Concorde can go supersonic was limited by the regulations . For example , the aircraft was only allowed to go at 400 knots during the climb phase between 6,000 and 32,000 ft ; also , the aircraft was allowed to go supersonic only after it has crossed the coastline . As the air gets thinner during climb , the Mach number increases for same IAS , reaching around 0.93 at 25,000 ft and 0.95 at 28,000 ft. After this , the afterburners are engaged and autopilot is set to the cruising altitude ( ~ 60,000 ft ) . During this climb phase to the cruising altitude , the aircraft goes supersonic , settling at around Mach 2 at over 50,000 ft. The flight envelope limitations of Concorde ( at one configuration ) is shown in this image : <URL> Source : pprune.org The altitude affected the thrust requirements , as more thrust is required for the same speed at lower altitudes due to density . This is one of the reasons for Concorde flying at altitude far above that of subsonic airliners .
There is a ( relatively ) new requirement for Flight Attendants ( on aircraft with more than 20 passenger seats ) to be certified as per the FAA . This was done in the <URL> , in section 814 if you want to read it . The applicable CFR is <URL> . In summary it says : You have to have a certificate of demonstrated proficiency , this looks like a pilots license . Demonstrated compliance with the air carrier approved training program . Proficiency to read , speak , and write English Comprehend written material in English Ability to write incident reports and log entries/statements Carry out written and oral instructions Now , the actual physical requirements are up to the airline , as long as the individual can complete the training program , they are physically allowed to become a flight attendant ( physical appearance requirements aside ) . As for " legally " allowed , they need to be able to pass the same TSA background checks that pilots are subject to . So legally , almost all airlines require : U.S. Citizen or appropriate work visa Be able to enter/exit the United States without any issues ( no visa problems with other countries , although for regionals this may not apply ) Be able to pass a TSA/FBI background check No DUI or felony convictions within the past 10 years There is n't a lot more " legal " to it than that , they do n't have to demonstrate the use of safety equipment if the airline 's training program does n't require it .
Flow separation happens when the pressure gradient of the airflow along the flow path becomes too steep . In subsonic flow , the oncoming air is first decelerated ahead of the wing , then swiftly accelerated when it flows around the strongly curved nose section of a wing . This acceleration is the consequence of the wing 's curvature . See it this way : If the airflow would be along a straight line , it would move away from the surface , creating a local vacuum . In reality , the air settles at a compromise between the straight path and following the contour , creating decreasing pressure along a surface with increasing curvature and increasing pressure along surfaces with decreasing curvature . More precisely , it is always in an equilibrium between inertial , viscous and pressure forces.This suction not only bends the airflow into following the wing 's contour , but also accelerates the air ahead of it . The lower the pressure , the more the air speeds up , such that the total energy of air ( the sum of pressure and kinetic energy ) stays constant . Therefore , pressure and local speed change in sync.When the curvature decreases further downstream , the flow path becomes straighter and pressure rises again . However , the air particles close to the wing slow down because of friction . The layer of air where this slowing is noticeable is called boundary layer . In it , the deceleration effects due to pressure rise and due to friction add up , and at some point the air comes to a standstill relative to the wing . Where this happens , static air will collect and build up , causing flow separation . Thankfully , the exchange of air across a turbulent boundary layer kicks the slowest air particles downstream , so at moderate angles of attack the air still moves along until it reaches the trailing edge . Only when the suction peak around the nose becomes very high at high angle of attack , the consequent steep pressure rise along the remaining flow path overpowers the possibilities of the turbulent boundary layer , the air decelerates completely and the flow separates . This is a wholly subsonic affair . If the wing moves at high subsonic speed , the curvature-created suction accelerates the flow such that it reaches supersonic speed . Now something odd happens : Supersonic flow accelerates further when subsonic flow would decelerate . This is caused by the change in density which is dominant at supersonic speed . Incompressible ( = very slow ) flow has constant density , and all speed changes affect pressure . At Mach 1 , the pressure and density changes are of equal magnitude , and in supersonic flow the density changes dominate . Now we have a supersonic pocket of air on the upper surface of the wing where speed increases and density decreases downstream , and the surrounding subsonic air sees little change in density . This picture should give you some idea how it looks : The whole wing moves at Mach 0.68 . Compare the green color at some distance from the wing with the scale on the left side , which gives the Mach number for each color shade . At the airfoil nose , you see a blue area . This is where the air decelerates - it gets pushed together by the approaching wing . Now follow the colors along the upper side - they quickly turn green , yellow and red as the air is accelerated into the low pressure area ( remember , low pressure equals high speed , so the reddest area has the highest local flow speed and the lowest pressure ) . In subsonic flow , the suction peak would be somewhere between 20 % and 30 % of chord , and the colors would slowly change back to yellow and green if you move further downstream . Now we have local supersonic flow ( everything redder than light orange is supersonic here ) , and instead of slowly decelerating , the air is speeding up to a maximum Mach number of 1.23 at almost 60 % of chord length.This can not last , and at some point this supersonic pocket collapses . This happens instantly in a shock , and as you know , in a straight shock density increases suddenly and speed decreases such that the <URL> . In the picture above , boundary layer effects create a lambda shock , which has its name from the Greek letter which looks like the shock pattern here . Aft of the shock , you have subsonic flow again , and a much thicker boundary layer which moves very slowly ( blue shade ) . This is due to the energy conversion through the shock , which converts kinetic energy into heat . But the flow is still attached - even this shock did not cause separation . If this pressure rise is big enough , the boundary layer will come to an instantaneous standstill , and then the flow separates . This is the shock induced separation you asked about . Unfortunately , the picture above is the best I could find , and I have none with separated flow aft of the shock . But it helps to show that the center of pressure moves aft . This causes a strong nose-down moment . Also , with higher subsonic Mach numbers directional stability decreases . Now even more nasty things can happen : The location of the sho
The compression ratio of the turbo machinery will not change with altitude as long as the speed of the compressor does not change ( excluding Reynolds number effects ) . This will lower the maximum pressure in parallel with the outside pressure . However , to create the same lift at altitude , the aircraft has to fly faster . In 10 km , where the air density is roughly 1/4 of sea level density , the airplane has to fly twice as fast . Also , air temperature drops with altitude , so the <URL> even more . And this Mach number determines how much <URL> happens ahead of and in the intake . Flying fast will increase the intake pressure level , which partially compensates for the lower atmospheric pressure . Since the pressure rises with the square of the Mach number , fast airplanes have a clear advantage here . Take the <URL> : Its <URL> had a compression ratio of measly 12 , but the precompression around the intake added another factor of 7 at Mach 2 , so the total pressure ratio between the peak pressure in the engine and outside air was over 80 ! Admittedly , this air pressure was only 76 mbar at the cruising altitude of the Concorde , so the absolute peak pressure in the engine was a much less impressive 6 bar . Typical compression ratios To answer the question about typical compression ratios : This correlates strongly with the age of the design : The first operational turbojet , the Junkers Jumo 004 of 1943 , had a compression ratio of just 3.2 using 7 compressor stages . The more recent <URL> of the Eurofighter achieves a compression ratio of around 26 with a similar size and weight using 8 compressed stages , but produces almost 7 times more thrust . The main difference is better aerodynamics . The <URL> achieve a pressure ratio of around 50 using 15 compressor stages . They can afford to compress the air more because they try to heat and accelerate the air as little as necessary during the combustion process . Since the maximum heat inside the engine is limited by the materials used , a higher compression in military engines would leave less thermal margin for combustion heating . The higher nozzle velocities of supersonic-capable engines are best achieved with less compression and more combustion heating . Here is a plot of the pressure ratio trends for commercial transport engines ( <URL> ) <URL>
The NASA website quotes an approximate ratio of 1 The shuttle was designed with a low L/D ratio ( ~ 1 ) because during the descent the spacecraft must be slowed from about 17,300 mph to about 250 mph at landing . ( <URL> ) Note that glide ratio is normally equal to the lift to drag ratio - <URL> - <URL>
I would argue that it is most important on takeoff . The reason is that most planes require more distance for takeoff than for landing ( partially due to higher weight ) . Also , it is generally easier to abort a takeoff than a landing ( when on the ground at least ) . Both landing and takeoff distance calculations are performed ( which should take slope into account ) to ensure that there is sufficient distance for the aircraft . However , in addition to aborting a takeoff being easier , more can go wrong in a landing . Windshear or improper approach settings can cause an airplane to touch down later or faster , which risks an overrun . During takeoff , the plane has until V1 ( takeoff decision speed ) to abort if any issues arise . However , this certainly depends on conditions . Aircraft condition , wind and runway surface condition can increase the distance needed for landing ( or aborting a takeoff ) . If reverse thrust is not available , there is a tailwind , and the runway is wet , that could change the situation .
The flying boom method uses a rigid boom which is " flown " by an operator in coordination with the pilot in order to make a connection with a receptacle on the second aircraft . The boom is retracted when not in use . Though <URL> if it comes in contact with an aircraft , <URL> . The probe and drogue method uses a trailing hose with a basket on the end . Pilots will guide a probe on their aircraft into the basket to connect with the hose . The hoses are retracted when not in use . Though the crew has less control of the drogue , which <URL> , there is less danger to the aircraft than from a boom , and it could allow the aircraft to stay further away from the tanker . The boom method was developed early on in the Cold War , when <URL> . They needed a method that would transfer fuel as fast as possible in order to reduce the time it took to transfer the large amounts of fuel needed . Because the boom is rigid , it is capable of a higher transfer rate . The importance of bombers meant that SAC got their way , and the KC-135 fleet was equipped with booms . Today , almost all US Air Force planes capable of aerial refueling use the boom system . The US Navy on the other hand , along with most aircraft in other countries , uses the drogue system . Though this method is not capable of the high transfer rates of a boom , it is much more flexible . A refueling aircraft may only be fitted with one boom , and this requires extra design work and integration with the fuselage . The drogue system , on the other hand , is more simple , and does not need a dedicated operator . This means that it can be more easily fitted to the refueling aircraft , even <URL> , and larger aircraft can have multiple drogues . Another point is that smaller aircraft such as fighters are not capable of receiving fuel at the full rate the boom provides , so they have less benefit from the system . Although a boom can have a <URL> , this still commits the tanker to one aircraft at a time and one type of system per flight . Also , aircraft such as helicopters <URL> . When the Air Force was looking at a replacement for its tanker fleet in the early 2000s , a <URL> to determine what standard the new tanker should support . The report suggests some options for the best combination of methods . In the end , the Air Force selected the <URL> for the contract , which will include both the boom and the drogue options for refueling . This will provide better support to aircraft from other branches or countries , while maintaining support of the existing aircraft that use a boom .
The amount a wing can flex is actually a product of the material . The wing requires a specified ultimate strength ; with metal , that translates into a given amount of flex . This can be varied within limits , but it is really the material , its stiffness to yield point ratio , and its fatigue properties , that control how much a wing will flex . <URL> is an extremely strong and light material and has lesser stiffness , and has essentially no fatigue problems . This is beneficial to provider a smoother ride in turbulence . The wing acts like a big spring . As <URL> , any material can and will flex ( to a varying degree ) . So flexing is because of the material of the wing more than the wing itself .
There is less gravitational force , but by how much ? An insignificant amount . The gravitational force of attraction between two objects is given by , $ \ displaystyle F _ { \ mathrm g } = \ frac { G m _ { 1 } m _ { 2 } } { R ^ 2 } $ , where , $ G$ is the graviational constant , $ R$ is the distance between the object 's centers , and $ m _ { 1 } $ and $ m _ { 2 } $ are the masses of the objects . Instead of finding the variation in force between the aircraft and earth , it would be be better to find the variation in the acceleration due to gravity , $ g $ ( as $ F _ { \ mathrm g } = m _ { \ mathrm a } g $ , with $ m _ { \ mathrm a } $ being the mass of the airliner ) We have , on earth 's surface , $ \ displaystyle g = \ frac { G m _ { \ mathrm e } } { R _ { \ mathrm e } ^ 2 } $ where , $ m _ { \ mathrm e } $ is the mass of the earth , and $ R _ { \ mathrm e } $ is the radius of the earth . For the aircraft at an altitude $ h $ above the surface of the earth , this becomes , $ \ displaystyle g _ { h } = \ frac { G m _ { \ mathrm e } } { \ left ( R _ { \ mathrm e } + h \ right ) ^ 2 } $ Taking ratio , we get , $ \ displaystyle \ frac { g _ { h } } { g } = \ left ( 1 + \ frac { h } { R _ { e } } \ right ) ^ { -2 } $ Plugging in numbers , we get , for an airliner cruising at 12 km , $ g _ { h } = 9.773 \ \ mathrm { m \ s ^ { -2 } } $ , or about 0.37 % less compared to the sea level value . This is quite small and would not be noticable to all but the sensitive instruments .
Because the priorities for military aircraft ( engines ) are different . While it is true that the high bypass turbofans have better fuel economy ( in cruise ) and are less noisy , the low bypass engines offer significant advantages when we take into account their intended use in combat aircraft , such as : The response of the low bypass turbofans to throttle adjustments is faster compared to the high bypass turbofans ; the inertia is less and less air mass is involved ( for increasing the velocity ) - This is important during combat , when thrust requirements change rapidly . They have less frontal area , reducing the drag produced . For aircraft expected to fly at supersonic speeds , however briefly , this is important . Better thrust to weight ratio - 6:1 in Trent 1000 Vs 9:1 F119 ( used in F-22 Raptor ) - Even if the actual thrust produced by the low bypass turbofans is lesser , they produce more thrust per kg of engine , which means that the engine can be more compact in size . The low bypass turbofans are more efficient at higher speeds compared to the high bypass turbofans . The lesser size of the low-bypass turbofans mean that the aircraft can be made stealthier by ' burying ' the engines in the fuselage , which is all but impossible in case of high bypass turbofans .
A simple definition of situational awareness that you are aware of the different situation happening around you , know why they are happening and can think of an action you need to take to tackle with those . In aviation , situational awareness <URL> : For a pilot , situational awareness means having a mental picture of the existing inter-relationship of location , flight conditions , configuration and energy state of your aircraft as well as any other factors that could be about to affect its safety such as proximate terrain , obstructions , airspace reservations and weather systems . The potential consequences of inadequate situational awareness include CFIT , loss of control , airspace infringement , loss of separation , or an encounter with wake vortex turbulence , severe air turbulence , heavy icing or unexpectedly strong head winds . As far as your second question , hypothetically speaking , one can say that going through the preflight checklist , pilots are more focused inside the cockpit mostly and the situation outside the airplane is not too much of concern until they pay attention to that . Generally speaking , when the airplane is not moving , situational awareness can be lesser . It is same as when you are driving , at what time you have lesser situational awareness ?
The reason is twofold : The materials used and the high aspect ratio . The 747-8 primarily uses advance aluminum alloys , while the 787 uses carbon composites . The carbon composites flex more compared to the aluminum alloys . This can be achieved because the carbon fibers are anisotropic and their properties can be tailored in each direction . The yield strain of the aluminum alloys used in aerospace is ~ 1 % , while that of the <URL> is about 50 % higher , ~ 1.5 % . These material characteristics mean that the carbon spar can flex more compared to the aluminum one . This effect is magnified by the high aspect ratio of the Boeing 787 . The aspect ratio of the 787 is about <URL> while that of the 747-8 is about <URL> . This means that the wings are more slender and flex more for the same load . The 787 wings are able to take this flexing in part because of the excellent fatigue properties of the Carbon composites used . See <URL> for a very good discussion on the causes and effects of wing flexing in 787 .
Because bigger reaction mass with lower speed carries away less energy for the same momentum . To produce thrust the engine applies force to the exhaust gasses and air . This force accelerates the air . To produce thrust $ F$ , the engine has to impart momentum $ p = \ frac { F } { t } $ per unit of time on the air . Momentum is proportional to mass and first order of speed . $ p = mv $ where $ m $ is mass of the gasses ( reaction mass ) affected by the engine per unit of time and $ v $ is speed of those gasses . The gasses however also take away some kinetic energy . Kinetic energy is also proportional to mass , but also to second order of speed . $ E_k = \ frac12mv ^ 2 $ . This energy has to be provided by the engine . Since the fuel can only provide so much energy ( it 's heating value ) per unit of mass , an engine that needs less energy needs less fuel . And that is achieved by moving more air . Which means higher bypass ratio for jet and bigger propeller for engines with propellers . Note , that this does not say high-bypass engine would be more efficient at slow speed than at high speed . Because it is n't . All jet engines are more efficient at high speed . This is because the power the engine produces is $ P = Fv $ . So at high speed , larger part of the power output is the useful work moving the aircraft . In high-bypass engine the maximum power output of the fan is limited though ( similar to propeller ) , so compared to a turbojet the difference in efficiency is higher at low speed .
It has to do with the local speed around the airfoil . In a canard configuration , the forward wing has to produce more lift per area than the main wing in order to have <URL> . This means the suction is more intense , and the pressure on the upper side of the airfoil right behind the leading edge is lower than on the main wing . Also , the angle of attack of the wing is higher , presenting a larger area to the oncoming flow . Large droplets of supercooled water will simply splash on the leading edge and freeze there instantly , causing clear icing . In a conventional aircraft the tail surface will provide very little lift , and in many cases even produces a <URL> . Now the main wing shows lower pressure on the forward part of the airfoil , just where ice collects the most . In the special case where the tailplane is in the wake of the wing , some of the water droplets will have frozen to the wing already and less water will be available to cause tailplane icing . The capacity of air to hold water depends not only on temperature , but also on pressure : The lower the pressure , <URL> . Condensed , super-cooled water , or liquid water hitting a cool surface , will form ice . Now you have both components needed for the explanation . Pitch stability is the explanation for the higher propensity of canard wings to collect ice than conventional tailplanes !
If we 're talking about large aircraft the answer is Powerful enough that you want to stay out of them . I refer you to <URL> in which a Cessna ( looks like a 172 ) was flown into the wake of a C-5 Galaxy . The Cessna was rolled through 360 degrees by the vortex . <URL> has shown that the rotational speed of wake vortices can exceed 150 miles per hour ( 130 knots ) . While the <URL> rates tornadoes based on damage a 150 mile per hour wind speed is in the range estimated for an EF3 tornado ( " Severe Damage " , defined as Entire stories of well-constructed houses destroyed ; severe damage to large buildings such as shopping malls ; trains overturned ; trees debarked ; heavy cars lifted off the ground and thrown ; structures with weak foundations are badly damaged . ) - This should reduce your desire to be anywhere near the wake vortex of a large aircraft . If we 're talking about smaller aircraft ( say two Cessnas flying in trail , and the trailing aircraft somehow gets below the lead ) it 's strong enough to be unpleasant - the wake from the leading aircraft will shake and rock the wings of the trailing aircraft , but it probably wo n't flip the trailing aircraft over . Many pilots are familiar with encountering their own wake at some point in flight training : <URL> . If the weather and timing of the turn are " just right " and you produced a circle rather than an oval yo will hit the descending wake from your outside wing as you roll level at the 360 degree mark . This produces a slight " bump " at the end of the maneuver ( <URL> ) .
Yes . <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating you must : ( a ) Be at least 18 years old . ( b ) Be able to read , speak , write , and understand English . If you can not read , speak , write , and understand English because of medical reasons , the FAA may place limits on your certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of light-sport aircraft . ( c ) Hold at least a sport pilot certificate with category and class ratings or privileges , as applicable , that are appropriate to the flight instructor privileges sought . A CFI never needs a medical certificate . It is not required for the operation of that certificate . A medical certificate may be required if the CFI has additional roles . For example , the CFI also is acting as the legal pilot in command . A sport pilot acting as the legal pilot in command does not need a medical . <URL> ( b ) Operations not requiring a medical certificate . A person is not required to hold a medical certificate -- ( 1 ) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate while seeking -- ( i ) A sport pilot certificate with glider or balloon privileges ; or ( ii ) A pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating ; ( 2 ) When exercising the privileges of a sport pilot certificate with privileges in a glider or balloon ; ( 3 ) When exercising the privileges of a pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating in a glider or a balloon , as appropriate ; ( 4 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with -- ( i ) A sport pilot rating in a glider or balloon ; or ( ii ) A glider category rating ; ( 5 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate if the person is not acting as pilot in command or serving as a required pilot flight crewmember ; ( 6 ) When exercising the privileges of a ground instructor certificate ; To answer your questions . A sport pilot or CFI will never need a medical because the operation does not require a medical but a valid driver 's license . A glider pilot or CFI never needs a medical or drivers license , if I am reading the regulation correctly . A sport CFI does not require a CPL as does a regular CFI . The CPL requirement is found under part 61 subpart H Subpart H -- Flight Instructors Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating § 61.183 Eligibility requirements . To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : ( c ) Hold either a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with : But subpart H specifies Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating . The rules for sport CFI are found in subpart K where no such requirement is found . ( see 61.403 above ) It does not relieve the pilot or CFI from adhering to <URL> though .
I finally found several arguments to answer this question from different sources . Sweep and Mach Number from Airbus This argument is developed in an <URL> . To grasp it it is important to understand the purpose of swept wing . By sweeping the main wings one introduces an angle between the leading edge of the wing and a line perpendicular to the fuselage axis . Let 's consider two airplanes , one with swept wings ( A ) and one with straight wings ( B ) . One of the most important parameters is the Mach Number experienced by the wings . It is measured normal to the leading edge of the wing which means that for the two airplanes flying at the same Mach Number , the Mach Number seen by wings of ( B ) is larger than the one seen by the wings of ( A ) . This allows to fly at higher speed because it delays the large increase in drag ( drag divergence ) and other effects linked to the Mach Number around the airfoil . However , if the isobars on the wing are not aligned with the leading edge , they are following a less swept pattern which tends to reduce the benefits from the sweep angle of the main wing because the effective sweep angle is smaller and the Mach Number around the wing should not be computed normal to the leading edge but normal to the isobars close to the leading edge . From a theoretical point of view it would even be better to have isobars not aligned with the leading edge but having a larger sweep angle . However this never happens due to boundary conditions at the root and the tip of the wing . Other sources All this is also explained <URL> . Finally , this last <URL> deals also with the matters but does not justify the need for the isobars to be parallel to the leading edge . It deals more with the shock on the wing and the ways to weaken it and thus reduce the drag .
end question
start question
Does the FAA have specific Air Ambulance safety guidelines ?
Check out <URL> published by the FAA which seems to be recent and some notes <URL> on the same topics . The full rules can be found in the FAR at <URL> They are required to do a preflight risk analysis as per § 135.617 but this is not really any different than what anyone should be doing before any flight however for them it is very specifically outlined . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting helicopter air ambulance operations must establish , and document in its operations manual , an FAA-approved preflight risk analysis that includes at least the following -- ( 1 ) Flight considerations , to include obstacles and terrain along the planned route of flight , landing zone conditions , and fuel requirements ; ( 2 ) Human factors , such as crew fatigue , life events , and other stressors ; ( 3 ) Weather , including departure , en route , destination , and forecasted ; ( 4 ) A procedure for determining whether another helicopter air ambulance operator has refused or rejected a flight request ; and ( 5 ) Strategies and procedures for mitigating identified risks , including procedures for obtaining and documenting approval of the certificate holder 's management personnel to release a flight when a risk exceeds a level predetermined by the certificate holder . ( b ) Each certificate holder must develop a preflight risk analysis worksheet to include , at a minimum , the items in paragraph ( a ) of this section . ( c ) Prior to the first leg of each helicopter air ambulance operation , the pilot in command must conduct a preflight risk analysis and complete the preflight risk analysis worksheet in accordance with the certificate holder 's FAA-approved procedures . The pilot in command must sign the preflight risk analysis worksheet and specify the date and time it was completed . ( d ) The certificate holder must retain the original or a copy of each completed preflight risk analysis worksheet at a location specified in its operations manual for at least 90 days from the date of the operation .
I have not seen any studies on this , nor would I expect to as Avgas is such a niche product and the price of it is not heavily dependent on the price of the underlying fuel itself . If you look at <URL> the reason avgas is so expensive is that it has special requirements for making it , storing and transporting it and so little is produced that there 's no economy of scale . In any case your question is based on the premise that gasoline production is going to decrease . Even with the rise of electric cars most oil companies are n't forecasting a drop in gasoline demand until the 2030s , maybe even the 2040s as the increase in demand for new cars will oustrip the number of electic cars for some time . As a decline in consumption does not guarantee a price rise , any forecasts of this kind would be premature , and not likely to be reliable .
Oil Pressure lines typically sends oil to the Bearings and Gearboxes of the Engine , from the oil pump . The Scavange lines typically collects the oil from those areas and send it back to the Oil tank , getting cooled and filtered along the way .
Induced drag is caused by the backward inclination of the lift vector . Lift is defined as the aerodynamic force perpendicular to the flow direction , and since lift is created by <URL> , the resulting force is slightly inclined backwards . The formula for the deflection angle ( called <URL> ) $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ To arrive at the drag , you now need to multiply the local lift with this angle . For small $ \ alpha_w $ s the arcus tangens can be neglected , and we get this familiar looking equation for the backwards-pointing component of the aerodynamic force : $ $ c _ { Di } = \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot AR } = \ frac { \ alpha_w ^ 2 \ cdot \ pi \ cdot AR } { 4 } $ $ Now consider a wing which will do this unevenly over the wingspan . Some parts create a lot of lift and , therefore , a lot of downward deflection . Others produce less lift and less deflection . Due to the quadratic dependency of induced drag with downwash angle , the sum of all parts will always be higher when there are variations in the local downwash angle over span . Only the wing with a <URL> will have the minimum induced drag for a given lift . This is not necessarily an elliptic wing . By selecting the right twist ( incidence variation over wingspan ) , any planform can be made to produce a constant downwash angle , albeit at only one angle of attack . Only the elliptic wing will combine the constant downwash angle over span with a constant lift coefficient over span such that variations in angle of attack still result in a constant downwash angle . This is strictly true only in inviscid flow and when elastic deformation and the weight of the wing ( which contributes to the need for lift and hence induced drag ) are not considered . Also , an elliptic wing will produce nasty stall characteristics . Adding handling , friction and structural weight will shift the optimum to wings which produce more lift near the center . The exact optimum also will depend on the absolute size of the wing because the structural mass fraction goes up with size due to <URL> . Nomenclature : $ AR \ :\ : $ aspect ratio of the wing $ c _ { Di } \ :\ : $ Induced drag coefficient $ c_L \ :\ :\ : $ lift coefficient $ \ pi \ :\ :\ :\ ; $ 3.14159 $ \ dots $
The Class C outer area is the airspace surrounding Class C airspace out to 20nm , and from the lower limit of radar coverage to the top of the controller 's airspace . The outer area is not charted , although you can see in the white boxes ( in the chart below ) adjacent to Class C airports that you can initiate communication within 20nm . ATC offers Class C services ( e.g. , flight following ) on a workload-permitting basis to participating aircraft operating in the outer area , and aircraft in 2-way radio communication will receive IFR/VFR aircraft separation services . So you can think of Class C airspace as 3 concentric rings : the 20nm outer area , the 10nm shelf area , and the 5nm surface area . Source <URL>
The APU is usually located at the rear of the aircraft , in the tail , so the intake is generally somewhere on the side of this location . Aircraft place the inlet in different places though , and some even put the APU somewhere different . For some examples : 737 intake , the small <URL> at the bottom <URL> ( the place they do n't want you to put de-icing fluid ) <URL> ( the scoop that opens upwards ) <URL> ( a scoop on the underside of the tail ) <URL> ( inside of the wheel well ) <URL> is an interesting thread including other examples .
The two configurations of <URL> have different capacity . A350-900 : 138,000 liters / 36,456 US gallons A350-1000 : 156,000 liters / 41,212 US gallons The tanks are shown in this picture : <URL> <URL>
First off the <URL> may not be a commercial pilot ( in the FAA sense ) on account of the plane is operated by the military . For example the previous pilot of AFO <URL> has no listing in the FAA database for pilot certificates so he does not cary any civilian privileges of flight although some might . Being in the service the pilot would carry all the privileges associated with his given rank at the time . As for other privileges there would be nothing stopping him from receiving a free meal at a local airport diner or the such but as far as I can find they have no special privileges anywhere . If you are asking what privileges they may have in the air that is a completely different question . They still must follow ATC procedures as any other plane in civilian airspace but the flight will undoubtably be treated in a certain way .
In short , the scheme is as follows : Busier airports get 3-letter identifiers . Less busy public-use airports usually get 2 numbers and a letter , sometimes 1 number and 2 letters . Less busy private airports ( which is almost all private airports ) get 2 letters and 2 numbers . More specifically , the FAA assigns airport identifiers ( and location identifiers in general ) according to the guidance laid out in section 1-2-7 of <URL> . 3 Letter Identifiers For airports , 3-letter identifiers are assigned to airports that meet the following criteria : Airports : ( a ) with a manned air traffic control facility . ( b ) with a navigational aid ( NAVAID ) within airport boundaries . ( c ) that receive scheduled route air carriers . ( d ) that receive military airlift services . ( e ) designated by the U.S. Customs Service as Airports of Entry . or Public use airports commissioning Automated Weather Observations Systems , level III ( AWOS-III ) or higher that have paved runways 5,000 feet or longer . 1 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Most one − number , two − letter identifiers have been assigned to aviation weather reporting and observation stations and special − use locations . Some of these identifiers may be assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : In this identifier series , the number is always in the first position of the three − character combination . For example , 1AD would be a valid code . 2 Number , 1 Letter Identifiers Most one − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : One − letter , two − number identifiers are keyed by the alphabetical letter . The letter may appear in the first , middle or last position in the combination of three characters . For example , 25M , 8M1 , or M72 are all valid codes . 2 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Two − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to private − use landing facilities in the United States and its jurisdictions which do not meet the requirements for three − character assignments . The format of these codes is as follows : They are keyed by the two − letter Post Office or supplemental abbreviation ( listed below ) of the state with which they are associated . The two − letter code appears in the first two , middle , or last two positions of the four − character code . For example , TN01 , 1CA3 , or 50SD would be valid codes . The order continues to list a table of supplemental codes that can be used instead of the state 's mail code . This allows for states whose mailing codes would n't work well as part of the identifier and also for states which need more than the 300 private airport registration codes possible with a given 2-letter sequence in this format . Changes to Existing Identifiers Airport identifiers are preferred to keep the same code once it 's assigned , except in exceptional circumstances . According to section 1-2-4 of the same document : Location identifiers are considered permanent and will not be changed without strong and documented justification , primarily concerning air safety or a significant change of landing facility status . As a result of this , it 's possible for an airport which now meets the qualifications for a 3-letter identifier to still have an identifier containing numbers due to it not having met the requirements for three letters when it was assigned . <URL> is an example of this . It has an AWOS-III and a paved runway longer than 5,000 feet , but still retains the code 8A3 , which was assigned before the runway was lengthened .
I believe that for point 1 that both ATC and pilot assumed the height information on the ATC radar display came from radar trigonometry and not the reply of the transponder . Neither was at fault here and this is more likely due to bad training on both sides . If either had realized where the altitude information came from then the mode C transponder would have been deactivated and if the radar station tracking them was equipped with to do altitude triangulation then the ATC could have provided better altitude information . Incidentally with GPS being more common nowadays it can serve as a backup altitude indicator .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
The reason is twofold : The materials used and the high aspect ratio . The 747-8 primarily uses advance aluminum alloys , while the 787 uses carbon composites . The carbon composites flex more compared to the aluminum alloys . This can be achieved because the carbon fibers are anisotropic and their properties can be tailored in each direction . The yield strain of the aluminum alloys used in aerospace is ~ 1 % , while that of the <URL> is about 50 % higher , ~ 1.5 % . These material characteristics mean that the carbon spar can flex more compared to the aluminum one . This effect is magnified by the high aspect ratio of the Boeing 787 . The aspect ratio of the 787 is about <URL> while that of the 747-8 is about <URL> . This means that the wings are more slender and flex more for the same load . The 787 wings are able to take this flexing in part because of the excellent fatigue properties of the Carbon composites used . See <URL> for a very good discussion on the causes and effects of wing flexing in 787 .
As long as the pilot is having a first class medical , her pregnancy should have no effect on the operations , at least legally , though the regulations differ from country to country . I 'm not aware of any FAA regulations that prohibit pilot ing during pregnancy . The closest it comes is in <URL> , which says ( noting that pregnancy is not a medical deficiency in any way and the regulation is taken here in the widest sense ) that : ( a ) Operations that require a medical certificate . Except as provided for in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person who holds a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter may act as pilot in command , or in any other capacity as a required pilot flight crewmember , while that person : ( 1 ) Knows or has reason to know of any medical condition that would make the person unable to meet the requirements for the medical certificate necessary for the pilot operation As long as the pilot feels that she is medically fit and has a valid medical certificate , they ca n't be legally prevented from flying the aircraft . In case of other regulattions ( like EASA ) , pregnant women are not allowed to pilot after 26 weeks of pregnance . For example , <URL> says : ( c ) Pregnancy ( 1 ) In the case of pregnancy , if the AeMC or AME considers that the licence holder is fit to exercise her privileges , he/she shall limit the validity period of the medical certificate to the end of the 26th week of gestation . After this point , the certificate shall be suspended . The suspension shall be lifted after full recovery following the end of the pregnancy . ( 2 ) Holders of class 1 medical certificates shall only exercise the privileges of their licences until the 26th week of gestation with an OML . There are a number of medical issues that the pilot should be aware of while pregnant , so that appropriate measures could be taken , like , Ability to move the controls to their full extent . Ability to wear seat belts . Effect of high altitude operation on the foetus among others . The airline policy will vary and they have to consider a number of other conditions - for example , the ability of flight crew to egress during a crash etc. .
The short answer is to use color in some way . I could n't find anything very detailed on this : there 's plenty of general checklist information out there from the FAA , NASA , universities and so on , but nothing that goes into specific details on how to use colors , fonts or the other things that you mentioned . There is <URL> called The Use and Design of Flightcrew Checklists and Manuals that was part of the response to the <URL> . Unfortunately it 's from 1991 so some content is already dated , and it 's aimed at part 121 and 135 operators with multiple crew members , but it 's an interesting report anyway . Their main recommendation on memory items was simply to reduce them as much as possible because memory is very unreliable compared to checklists , but again that 's in the context of multi-member crews . As for design , layout , formatting etc. , they did make some specific recommendations ( see section 4.1 and Appendix A ) and the most applicable one to your question seems to be the use of color-coding . They strongly recommended the use of color as a general method , e.g. headings in yellow for " abnormal " items and in red for " emergency " items . Interestingly , the report says that at that time ( 1991 ) airlines resisted using color because of the costs of printing , but today it <URL> to highlight critical checklists and items . However , each checklist provider has their own approach to coloring headers , text , blocks or even entire pages . I do n't think there 's any such thing as a standard ' style guide ' for checklists , so if you 're making your own then you can obviously do whatever you want that works for you . But the 1991 report noted that most checklist problems were caused by missing or inaccurate items , so make sure you get the content right before you break out your paintbrushes :-)
Octane rating is a measure of how well a fuel resists detonation , which is the premature explosion of fuel in an engine cylinder before the spark is applied . This is relevant for spark ignition engines which use gasoline type fuels like avgas . Kerosene has a very low octane rating , somewhere around 15 , and is n't a good fuel for spark ignition engines as it would detonate on compression . This is why kerosene and diesel are used in diesel cycle engines which rely on the spontaneous detonation of fuel under pressure . Kerosene is not typically used in internal combustion engines , however in aviation there are turbo-diesel piston engines which run on Jet-A1 .
According to <URL> 4.5 High altitude compensator ( H.A.C. kit ) H.A.C. is a high altitude compensator developed by ROTAX which adjusts the air / fuel mixture automatically from sea level to 6500 m altitude using a special BING carburetor . <URL> has information on how the Bing carburetor works ( with pictures ! ) : Here 's how it works Did you ever wonder what makes fuel flow up the jets , from the carburetor float bowl , enroute to the engine ? Is it vacuum at the venturi ? That 's not quite descriptive enough . It is better defined as a differential pressure between the float bowl and the venturi . What 's the pressure in the float bowl ? Here is an important hint , the bowl is vented to outside atmosphere . So , it should be the same atmosphere , or ambient pressure , that 's feeding the airfilter . If it is not , the differential between the venturi and float bowl is going to change and so will the mixture ... Maybe richer , maybe leaner . Just think of that for a second . If fuel air mixture can be thrown off , accidentally by improperly venting the the float bowls , why not control the venting to effectively control mixture ? That 's exactly what your Bing 54 can do , automatically , when a High Altitude Compensator is added . If pressure in the float bowl is reduced , relative to the venturi , less fuel makes its way up the jets , and consequently , mixture is leaner . The HAC unit has two chambers separated by a diaphragm . One chamber is completely sealed ( except during calibration ) and air density within remains constant . The other has airfilter , float bowl , and venturi connections , so air density on this side is variable . It is in this chamber , that ambient pressure can be reduced by feeding it to the venturi via a connection on late model carburetors . The amount of ambient reduction is controlled by a tapered needle which changes position with deflection of the diaphragm . Think of the diaphragm as a flexible wall between two chambers that allows the sealed side to expand or contract as changes in ambient pressure occur on the other side . The reduced ( from ambient ) pressure gets routed to the float bowl ( s ) via their vent lines with a resulting leaning affect . . If that supply of low pressure is shut off , float bowl pressure returns to ambient , and the mixture goes as rich as the jets will allow . With HAC installations , standard jetting starts out several steps richer . This is why we say the default , or failure mode is typically toward the rich side .
Unless the pilot has had their certificate revoked or suspended by the FAA for their medical condition or has failed an application for a medical certificate1 , they would probably be fine after seeing a physician . <URL> states that sport pilots using a driver 's license to satisfy medical requirements must : ( ii ) Have been found eligible for the issuance of at least a third-class airman medical certificate at the time of his or her most recent application ( if the person has applied for a medical certificate ) ; ( iii ) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate ( if the person has held a medical certificate ) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn ; and ( iv ) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner . If the holder has a valid US driver 's license , it would ( presumably ) be taken upon the certificate holder to have " reason to know " by virtue of having a checkup with a physician to check that this condition does not affect their ability to fly safely , especially if the person involved was in any sort of doubt as to their medical condition . However , if they have had a checkup with a physician that finds no particular issues , and that condition does not affect the validity of their driver 's license , they should be fine . 1 : By section ( ii ) , the pilot must still have a medical test and pass for at least a Class 3 medical certificate , if the FAA has revoked or found unsatisfactory their previous medical under a Class 1 or Class 2 certificate .
A very simple answer to this question is that the FAA ( and international agencies ) require it to be so to ensure that all passengers are available to hear/see the briefing . The other more robotic/pilot-like answer to this is because it is on the taxi checklist . Haha :)
Generally , a compressor can not work efficiently at supersonic speed due to the shockwaves , the role of the <URL> and diffuser is to slow the air below Mach 1 . There is a similar need for a ramjet , so that the combustion can occur within the engine and produce thrust . The cone position and diffuser geometry are adjusted according to the airspeed . The overall shape of the diffuser is diverging . From <URL> , the diffuser decreases velocity and increases pressure according to : $ \ frac 1 \ rho \ ; dp = - \ mathrm V \ ;d \ mathrm V$ where $ \ rho $ is air density . Look at this video : <URL> for more details about how pressure and velocity are affected in a nozzle / a diffuser . Here is a summary : <URL> The J58 is turbojet within a ramjet . The forward section of the engine has a complex role . It adapts to a large range of speed ( 0 to Mach 3.2 ) and altitude ( 0 to 85,000 ft ) , and modifies the airflow to work either as turbojet , or as a ramjet , depending on the airspeed . <URL> Simplified adjustment of the airflow ( <URL> ) . Actual mechanism used at different airspeed ranges in the J58 : <URL> ( <URL> )
Yes . Fighter aircraft have air conditioning systems . In general , they are called as Environmental Conditioning Systems ( ECS ) . Their primary functions ( as far as cockpit goes ) include , Cockpit Pressurization Heating/Cooling/air-conditioning Windshield anti-fog/anti-ice The systems usually use conditioned engine bleed air or this purpose . The cockpit air conditioning is usually managed by the pilot . For example , in case of F-15 , the <URL> : <URL> Image from f-15e . info with the available controls listed as , TEMP switch : A three-way switch to manage cockpit temperature . When AUTO , cockpit temperature is automatically maintained at the temperature selected on the TEMP knob . When MANUAL , cockpit temperature may be changed with the knob , but not maitained automatically . When OFF , it shuts down off ECS air . TEMP knob : A rotary knob to set the cockpit temperature . FLOW switch : A three-way switch to select air flow . MIN , MAX and NORM settings are available for minimum/maximum/normal air flow , respectively . FLOW knob : A four-position knob to set the air source . When BOTH , bleed air is supplied from both engines . When L ENG or R ENG , bleed air is supplied from the left/right engine only . When OFF , no bleed air is supplied . The following image shows the other controls associated with ECS . <URL> Image from f-15e . info
end question
start question
Why did my phone 's GPS receiver stop working when the plane was descending to land ?
A GPS needs a line of sight to ( at least ) 4 satellites in order to compute a position . Given that you were able to get a position during the cruise , I assume that you were close to a window and had a clear view of a part of the sky . During the cruise , the aircraft trajectory was close to a straight line ( or changing slowly ) , so your receiver was able to keep a line of sight to the same set of satellites . But during the approach , the trajectory was much more dynamic ( lots of turns ) , so your receiver did n't had a constant line of sight toward the same set of satellites and " lost " them . It takes time for a receiver to " lock " on the signal of a given satellite , so the receiver it could n't compute a position from other satellites because they were not in sight long enough .
You should wash your aircraft in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . We could all offer opinions and product recommendations in response to this question . However , the best answer is : in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . Since you ask the question generically , without any information on what aircraft you might have , I will answer generically . Your manufacturer 's instructions can generally be found in at least two places : the owner 's manual/AFM and the maintenance manual . For example , in the owners manual for a 1975 Cessna 172M , you will find Section V : Care of The Airplane containing instructions on how to wash painted surfaces , bare aluminum surfaces , interior surfaces , and the windscreen and windows . The maintenance manual for the same aircraft contains nearly -- if not exactly -- identical information in chapter 2 . Now , for that aircraft and others , Cessna recommends use of mild detergent in certain applications ; you might not find that overly helpful in choosing what to use . Based on my research and experience , and time honored practice that I 've observed , Dawn dish soap is widely used for cleaning painted Cessna aircraft with no apparent long term harmful effects . The airframe that I fly for work has tens of thousands of hours on it , and while I can not vouch for how often it was washed in the past , I try to wash parts of it a few times a week . There is no apparent washing damage to the paint . I will also highlight Cessna 's instruction to use Stoddard solvent on areas of stubborn oil or grease ; this can be especially helpful in cleaning the belly with it 's typical collection of oil and dirt . My practice is typically to wipe down the belly with solvent first , and then follow with a water and detergent wash . If the manufacturer 's instructions are not clear , or are otherwise insufficient to answer your question regarding your specific aircraft , I would recommend asking your maintenance professional . He or she should have both the knowledge and experience to steer you in the right direction . For more insight into the world of aircraft cleaning , and especially for the specific product recommendations you want , you might take a look at this AvWeb article by Kim Santerre : <URL> .
Here are some things you can do , there are probably more . I 'm assuming you 're mainly interested in checking COM , not NAV . Controlled airport Check if you can hear the ATIS , Ground or Tower ; if you can , then at least you know you can receive . But you might as well just call Ground immediately and ask for a radio check . The <URL> is " how do you hear me ? " : Bowman Ground , N12345 , radio check please . How do you hear me ? Uncontrolled airport Listen to the AWOS , if there is one , to determine if you can receive . Ask UNICOM or another aircraft to give you a radio check . If none of those options are available then you can use a handheld airband transceiver to test . Tune it to the frequency you 're listening on and click transmit a few times , as if you 're turning on pilot-controlled lights ( PCL ) . If you hear the clicks in your headset , you can receive . To test transmission , do the opposite : click the transmit button on the yoke and listen on the handheld . Airborne You could call Approach , Center or FSS ; try activating the nearest PCL ( works best at night ) ; tune and identify a navaid ( that does n't verify COM works , but at least you know something 's working ) ; listen to 121.5 ( <URL> ) because there 's usually some bored pilot asking for sports scores on it and some other equally bored pilot yelling at him to " stop talking on <URL> " . Troubleshooting As always , if you have any problems with transmitting or receiving do some basic troubleshooting first : check you have the correct radio selected ; check you have the correct frequency ; check the volume controls on your headset and/or panel ; turn the squelch up/down/off ; check your headset is plugged in correctly ; if you have a right-seat passenger , see if they can hear/transmit ; and anything else you can think of .
It appears that the first gyroscopic flight instrument in aviation was a gyroscopic stabilizer , with the purpose of <URL> ; it was first used ( publicly ) in 1914 . For this , the inventors , <URL> and <URL> were awarded the Collier Trophy in 1914 . Apparently <URL> by , ... linking the control surfaces with three gyroscopes , allowing flight corrections to be introduced based on the angle of deviation between the flight direction and the original gyroscopic settings . <URL> Lawrence Sperry and gyroscopic stabilizer , Image from wright-brothers . org The device ( with the gyroscopes spinning at 7000 rpm ) was <URL> on a Curtiss F aircraft in 1913 , with the first public flight in 1914 . <URL> Sperry 's second flyby in Paris in the 1914 competition , with Emil on the wing . Image from historicwings.com Elmer <URL> the turn and bank indicator and an optical drift indicator , for which he was awarded the Collier trophy again in 1916 .
Modern military fuel tanks use the same basic technology to seal the tank after a puncture as WW2 aircraft did , which is the use of a laminated rubber-textile material , which tends to retain its form after being torn . The main difference between modern tank liners and WW2 liners is that the modern liners use more sophisticated materials so they can achieve the same benefit using a much thinner liner ( hence less weight ) . Bullets hitting a tank do not cause " detonation " unless they generate a spark and the fuel-air mixture in the tank is in ignition range . Also , most aircraft explosions are not detonations , they are <URL> . The liner does nothing to prevent this . The main functions of the liner are to prevent fuel from leaking out of a punctured tank and to maintain the integrity of the tank in a low-altitude mishap or crash . The main test for a liner is the " drop test " in which the liner is filled with fuel and dropped from a height of about 50 feet . The advantage of pressurizing a tank with air ( inerting ) is that it increases the critical temperature of an explosive mixture . If the critical temperature of the mixture is above the ambient temperature , then the tank will not explode spontaneously when sparked . A modern variation on this is called " nitrogen inerting " . The idea with that is to pressurize the tank with nitrogen . This makes the tank spark proof . Note that inerting technologies do not prevent a fuel tank from blowing up if an aircraft is hit with ordnance . The reason for this is that typically the way an aircraft blows up is that damage from the ordnance starts a fire . The fire then rapidly evolves fuel-laden gases into open compartments of the aircraft . As soon as these gases reach the ignition mixture , the fire deflagarates the mixture , causing an explosion . Inerting does little to prevent this . Inerting is very useful , however , because it can prevent a plane blowing up due to lightning or problems with electrical wiring or static electicity buildup .
If your thrust reversers are operational and debris is not a concern , you 're right for an in-service rejected takeoff ( RTO ) : There 's nothing that prevents the use of reverse thrust on a dry runway for an aborted takeoff . Most in-service RTOs utilize reverse thrust if available ( see <URL> for a dry-runway example ) . However , in order to certify a transport-category airplane , one must show compliance with <URL> , which precludes the use of thrust reversers on dry runways in calculating the accelerate-stop distance . The demonstration required by paragraph ( i ) , therefore , can not be conducted with reverse thrust on a dry runway . From a certification standpoint , the accelerate-stop calculation is made the way it is because that 's what the regulations say . But why is the law written this way ? See <URL> at about 1:12 : The whole intent is to demonstrate [ that ] under [ the ] worst conditions you can safely stop the aircraft . " Worst conditions " encompasses at least inoperative thrust reversers and worn brakes .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
The question of aircraft name variants <URL> , but I just want to add that other reasons have also been proposed : The ' 8 ' in the 380 resembles the double decker configuration of A380 . It was named A380 <URL> And of course , it is the lucky number for Chinese .
Landowner 's permission is always required . Then check the municipal zoning regulations and the like - city , state regs etc. . Then your insurance company . If all these points come up green , go do it .
All standard fixed wing aircraft are able to glide . The key measure of performance in gliding is the glide ratio which is related to the <URL> of the aircraft . The glide ratio of a clean A320 is 17:1 which means it can travel 17 units of distance forwards for every 1 unit of distance downward at best glide speed . Using your figure of 11,000 meters away and dividing by 17 results in a minimum altitude above ground ( AGL ) of 647 meters . In practice , the aircraft would need to be higher than this to accomodate turns and other factors , but if the A320 was at 1000 meters AGL or higher I would expect it to have no problem landing at an airfield or airport 11km away . Note that aircraft routinely glide every time you fly even though you may be unaware of it . When a commercial flight begins its descent often power will be brought back to idle , so the aircraft is gliding at that point . There have been several instances of large commercial aircraft landing fully unpowered . One well known example is the case of the <URL> in which a Boeing 767 ran out of fuel and glided to landing at a nearby airbase .
Land normally . Check your POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) first to ensure you have enough runway including the extra needed for a tailwind . The only thing to watch out for is that winds tend to moderate as you get closer to the ground . In a headwind landing , the relative wind will decrease , In a tailwind landing the relative wind will increase , so there will be an increased tendency to float way down the runway . Be on speed for a short field landing technique .
Check out AIM 1-1-9 for localizer information . Basically , the localizer is positioned so to have a course width of 700 ' at the threshold . So full deflection to either side is 350 ' . A CDI has 5 dots on each side , so at the threshold each dot is 70 ' . Near the Middle Marker , one dot means you 're off course by 150 ft. Near the Outer Marker , a one-dot deviation puts you about 500 ft. from the centerline . GPS ( non-WAAS ) approaches have a constant full scale deflection of .3 NM after the final approach fix . AIM 1 − 1 − 17 5 ( e ) ( 5 ) When within 2 NM of the Final Approach Waypoint ( FAWP ) with the approach mode armed , the approach mode will switch to active , which results in RAIM and CDI changing to approach sensitivity . Beginning 2 NM prior to the FAWP , the full scale CDI sensitivity will smoothly change from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM at the FAWP . As sensitivity changes from ± 1 NM to ± 0.3 NM approaching the FAWP , ... WAAS on the other hand is similar to the localizer . AIM 1-1-18 ( d ) 4 Both lateral and vertical scaling for the LNAV/VNAV and LPV approach procedures are different than the linear scaling of basic GPS . When the complete published procedure is flown , ± 1 NM linear scaling is provided until two ( 2 ) NM prior to the FAF , where the sensitivity increases to be similar to the angular scaling of an ILS . There are two differ - ences in the WAAS scaling and ILS : 1 ) on long final approach segments , the initial scaling will be ± 0.3 NM to achieve equivalent performance to GPS ( and better than ILS , which is less sensitive far from the runway ) ; 2 ) close to the runway threshold , the scaling changes to linear instead of continuing to become more sensitive . The width of the final approach course is tailored so that the total width is usually 700 feet at the runway threshold . Since the origin point of the lateral splay for the angular portion of the final is not fixed due to antenna placement like localizer , the splay angle can remain fixed , making a consistent width of final for aircraft being vectored onto the final approach course on different length runways . When the complete published procedure is not flown , and instead the aircraft needs to capture the extended final approach course similar to ILS , the vector to final ( VTF ) mode is used . Under VTF , the scaling is linear at ± 1 NM until the point where the ILS angular splay reaches a width of ± 1 NM regardless of the distance from the FAWP .
I ca n't say for sure , but here 's one plausible reason : Palm Springs is in a valley and surrounded by much higher terrain on three sides , which requires more maneuvering to land than at other airports . You can see <URL> that the airport elevation is 476ft MSL , but there are mountains over 8000ft within 10 miles of the airport . If you check the <URL> for runway 13R/31L ( it 's the longer one , so most likely to be used by an airline ) , you can see that the flight paths are far from straight : <URL> RNAV 31L <URL> RNAV 13R I can imagine the pilot would brief the cabin crew to be seated well before landing for safety while the aircraft flies the approach . Mountains often produce turbulence and high winds too , which would be another good reason to be seated while maneuvering at a lower altitude over that terrain .
As you 've mentioned , your tolerance will build up over time so a simple , partial answer is to be patient and fly in small doses . Two 20 minute flights with a break between is much much better than a single hour long flight . You 'll learn more , stay focused , and acclimate faster . Try not to move your head much during maneuvers . For a loop , I typically look at my left wing tip until I 'm about 3/8 's through the loop , then I transition to looking " up " to catch the horizon as I approach the top of the loop . Any more movement than that might be a problem . Bill Thomas 's classic book <URL> describes where to look for many of the basic maneuvers .
I think one thing that does not get emphasized enough : Pilots do not land airplanes!In fact , we try to keep the airplane flying as long as possible ! We systematically rob the airplane of energy ( energy from engine power , energy from airspeed , energy from altitude ) until the plane can no longer fly , and settles gently on the runway . But even as the plane is landing , the pilot is still trying to coax it back into the air to remove as much energy as possible . A big student mistake is to point the airplane at the runway , and try to force it to land there . That leads to landings too fast , too high , big bounces , porpoising , and sometimes nose-in crashes . So do n't think about " how am I going to land this thing ? " Instead think about " How am I going to remove more energy from the equation to lose altitude and airspeed ? " A landing is a series of precise targets you are aiming to hit , each with less energy than the last one ( but each one still with enough energy to keep flying and be safe ) Each target consists of Position ( horizontal and altitude ) , airspeed , and descent rate . You hit each of these targets at 3 different points on a square ( abeam the numbers , downwind-to-base , and base-to-final ) Hitting a target that consists of a position + airspeed + descent rate is not easy ! But the more precisely you can hit each target , the easier the next part is . Although I hope I 'm repeating the same instructions you 've already heard , for the sake of the Site , let me re-iterate the standard instructions for a C-172 . Be level at TPA ( airport + 1000 feet ) , and at a cruise speed of approximately 100 kts . The runway should be approx 3/4 of the way up your strut . When you are abeam the numbers , Carb Heat ( if applicable ) , throttle back to approx 1,600 RPM , and pull-back as necessary to maintain altitude ( the consequence will be that you slow down ) . Watch your speed , altitude and position . Drop flaps 10 & deg ; when speed allows , and aim to hit a speed of 85 kts , an altitude loss of 250 feet , and have the numbers at 45 & deg ; behind you , all at the same time . Turn the corner to base , using approximately 30 & deg ; of bank angle . Continue to reduce speed ( by pulling back ) to hit 75 kts , and drop altitude another 250 ft. ( you 're now 500 ft above the runway ) . Add Flaps 20 when appropriate . Turn the corner to final . You can " oval " your turn if you are undershooting the centerline , but do NOT over-bank if you have overshot the centerline . Aim for the centerline , acquire a PAPI/VASI , keep an eye on your airspeed relative to approach speed ( 68 kts ) . Watch 3 and ONLY 3 things : Airspeed ( Slowing towards 68 kts ) Centerline ( left ? right ? on target ? ) Slope ( PAPI/VASI ? Light configuration ) . Keep repeating " Airspeed , Centerline , Slope " out loud , describe if you 're too far/too close on each one , and describe how you 're going to correct . For example : " Airspeed : 75 kts ; too fast ; pulling back to slow down " " Centerline : Left of center ; coming slightly right " " Slope : 3 red +1 white is too low ; adding power to slow descent " ( repeat ! ) When the runway is made , drop final flaps , engine to idle , and prepare to flare when you 're about 10-15 feet , and hopefully right at the numbers . Remember that your altitudes are 1000 , 750 , 500 , touchdown . And your airspeeds are 85 , 75 , 65 .
Listen . Climbing aircraft need more thrust , so the noise they produce is related to their vertical speed . Since most excess performance is available at low speed , a slowly flying aircraft producing a lot of noise will most likely be climbing . Once you gain a little experience , the pitch of the engine and propeller sound of piston-engined aircraft will be a very good indicator of their thrust setting . This does n't work for gliders . Here you need to wait to be sure if they are climbing or descending . Only when you see that the glider flies with speed brakes extended you can be sure instantly that it is descending .
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
If I attempt to continue maintaining the flare , attempting to come to a stop , I will sink and if I do n't do anything about it , I will hit the ground . Why ? if you continue to maintain aft cyclic after the flare , you will hit the ground because some of the lift which is being generated will be used to fly the helicopter backwards , and you wo n't have enough power in to both maintain altitude and also maintain backwards flight ( which is what you are commanding with aft cyclic ) . This is why we level off after the flare : to use all the lift in the vertical direction . Its the exact opposite of take-off : if you are in a hover on the runway , and push the nose over to the 60KIAS nose-down attitude , you will descend into the runway . Although I have never tried it , I imagine that at the peak of the flare , if I add ( a lot ? ) of power without changing the attitude ( much :) , I will not descend into the runway , but rather I will start to fly backwards .
Even for zero payload , no B707 model is able to fly more than 6000nmi ( 11111km ) . B727 even has less range . However , Iranair planned to run Tehran-LAX flight , which length is 12222km , but never materialized because of 1979 revolution . The flight could have been operated by the 747SP ( introduced in 1976 ) , similar to their Tehran-JFK route . <URL> <URL>
I want to measure a commercial speed for Concorde flights . The answer was given by Andy in his comments providing links to websites that recorded past timetables for Concorde : <URL> and <URL> Timetable schedule must take into account time difference between cities so that a British Airways Concorde flight JFK 12h15 to LHR 21h00 with -5 hours difference will give a 3h45 of commercial flight duration . Surprisingly , to me at least , trade winds did not seem to play a significant role in this measurement because timetable on the reverse route exhibit similar duration . Air France flights follow the same rationale . The measurement indicate a general figure of 3h45 for transatlantic Concorde flights . Next step is determining the kilometre distance . As I want a geographical time-distance I care only about <URL> and do not care about the exact path followed by the flight which would tell about aircraft/pilot/airline performance . I used the <URL> website . My only issue is measuring the performance ( speed ) of the transport system in getting from point A to point B . So I finally have my figure : 5 850 km / 3h45 = 1 560 km/h was the commercial speed of Concorde ( or 969 mph in non international units ) .
end question
start question
Is landing the ' wrong way ' possible on an aircraft carrier ?
You 're going to run into a few issues . Below is a diagram of a typical aircraft carrier layout . Normally aircraft would land from right to left . The four cables are located closer to the right end than the left . The extra length after the cables is both to allow a " bolter " ( <URL> ) time to accelerate in case of missing the arresting hook ; and to allow an aircraft that caught a cable time to decelerate . Notice how far an aircraft can continue down the deck ( <URL> ) after catching the cable . Even if you catch the first cable , you might go off the aft end of the ship . Another issue is the way that the arrestor cables work . The housing where the cable enters the flight deck is curved to allow the landing aircraft to pull on the cable as it decelerates . The cable is not designed to be pulled in the opposite direction , which could cause it to break ( <URL> ) . Aside from these issues , you would also lack the <URL> system that provides physical guidance during the landing . And as <URL> , you have to either touch down late , or catch the cable late , both of which could pose problems .
It 's required by law , at least in the US . <URL> , Cockpit control knob shape specifies these shapes for the flap and gear controls on smaller aircraft : <URL> For larger ( transport category ) aircraft , <URL> specifies the same thing : <URL> As for why those shapes are specified , it 's for at least two reasons : The shape resembles the thing it controls , so it 's an obvious memory aid The controls are all shaped differently , therefore you can distinguish them by touch alone , without needing to look at them As others <URL> , there have been accidents in the past caused by pilots using the wrong controls , and this is one reason why the FAA decided to do something to standardize them . Parts 23 and 25 also state where the controls should be placed , for the same reason . The FAA 's <URL> says : There have been many cases of the pilot mistakenly grasping the wrong handle and retracting the landing gear , instead of the flaps , due to improper division of attention while the airplane was moving . They recommend - and I was taught - leaving the flaps alone after landing until clear of the runway ( unless you have a good reason for retracting them earlier , like a short-field landing ) , then check and retract them with the statement " flaps identified and retracted " . " Identified " in this case simply means that you 're sure you have the right control in your hand . Some instructors even avoid touch-and-goes in complex aircraft ( i.e. with retractable gear ) because they feel the risk of retracting the gear rather than the flaps during the maneuver is too high ; they stop and go instead , even if that means taxiing back for takeoff .
While there probably is an " ideal " attitude to impact water , and it would be nice to crash-land with exactly the correct attitude ... it 's very much a secondary consideration . By far the most important thing , when landing on water , is to land slowly . As such , your aim should be to land ( / crash ) with whatever attitude gives the lowest possible ground speed/descent rate at the point of impact . If that means a " normal " flare , do a normal flare . If that means a harsher flare with a tail strike , do that instead . The point is that you 're in an emergency situation , and your biggest priority is to get the speed right : you likely do n't have the luxury of trying to fine-tune your angle of impact and flare . Additionally , you always have the risk of over-flaring and stalling into the water instead , which is a worse end result . So yes , it may - with some airframes - be beneficial to have a tail strike , but you 're far better off just keeping the aircraft under the best control possible and reducing your speed as far as possible
First off , the thud and deceleration may be more related to the conditions as well as the runway length than pilot skill , but lets discuss some of your questions . 1 ) Please elaborate on the stress tolerances built into various parts of the landing gear of common commercial aircraft , such as the Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 ? This is a complex question to answer simply as airplane gear sees lost of loads and some compromises are made for simplicity of operation . For one the rubber used on the tires is quite thick since some of it does wear away on every landing since the gear is not spinning when the plane touches down ( you can <URL> ) The tradeoff here is weight ( you need to haul the tires around with you ) but they can be used for many cycles . The vertical load is generally handled by an <URL> these allow for a margin of error but they ( or the gear system ) can be bottomed out and a <URL> . The last serious load that gear sees is usually side loads when a crosswind landing is made . These are tough to mitigate and its generally the job of the pilot to reduce these loads they will manifest them selves as tire wear and mechanical wear . Perhaps the coolest solution to this was the B-52 's full rotating gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) One of the more interesting non Oleo designs for GA gear is the rubber disks used on Mooneys . These are said to require less maintenance and are easier to replace but are far less forgiving than Oleo struts . <URL> ( <URL> ) Some of the vertical force is absorbed by the tire its self when the plane touches down the tire does ballon out a bit . As such it is of vital importance that the tire pressure is within a small margin since low pressure can cause excessive ballooning which would lead to side wear depending on gear design . 2 ) What kind of stress testing is done on crucial parts of the landing gear , such as tyres , wheels , axles and hydraulic parts ? These parts are generally made by different manufactures and are designed to comply with the aircrafts specs as set fourth by the builder ( Boeing etc ) . Like everything else on a plane these parts have a cycle life ( TO/LD ) and are replaced when necessary . Since they are high impact I would assume the life is on the shorter side generally speaking . Here is <URL> on how to care and maintain tires for aircrafts . Heres some good info on <URL> as well . 3 ) What are the backups and fail-safe measures designed into such landing gear ? This depends on the plane , bigger planes generally need to spread the load out over more axles/tires which gives them greater redundancy a plane like a 747 has 2 sets of twin axle main gear on each side of the plane so you could lose an axle and still be ok ( relatively speaking ) <URL> ( <URL> ) compare this with a 737 and you will see that the main gear is less redundant as its a single axle only system . In this case losing one of two tires would be less catastrophic than losing all the gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) Compare this all to a smaller GA plane where you generally have a single wheel situation <URL> ( <URL> ) The one thing all these planes have in common is that the nose wheel is the most delicate part of the landing gear . Hard landings on the nose wheel can collapse the gear or cause porpoising both of which are bad . This is what happens if the gear does not <URL> in other words that nose gear saw complete side loads . Planes have be successfully landed with collapsed nose gear or nose gear that wont come down . Its a sight but generally speaking its not the worst thing to happen . Sensors : The only sensor I know of on the gear ( and this is plane dependent ) is the <URL> which is a simple on off for being on the ground or not . The FDR will record 3-axis acceleration but that will be of the airframe which is behind the Oleo struts so the gear its self may see higher loads .
Yes , there is an upper limit , but that upper limit might change with technological innovation . An airplane flies because of the lift coefficient $ L = \ frac12 \ rho v ^ 2 A C_L $ , with $ v $ the airspeed , which is a combination of the speed of the plane and the wind speed , $ \ rho \ approx 1 \ , \ text { kg m } ^ { -3 } $ at a theoretical mimimum of 5 km height ( remember that most planes reach 10 km , but I took this a little more extreme to show an upper limit ) , $ A$ the area , and $ C_L $ an coefficent with a typical value less than 2 , that might change with technological innovation . So the only factors we can influence are $ v $ and $ A$ . However , if we increase $ A$ , the mass $ m $ increases faster than the area $ A$ because there is more material needed to avoid the plane form breaking under the huge forces . Increasing $ A$ quadratically gives more than a quadratically in $ m $ , and hence in the needed $ L$ . If we increase $ v $ , we need more fuel . The amount of fuel per distance unit increases linearily in $ v $ , because it increases quadratically per unit of time in $ v $ . Hence $ L$ increases quadratically where $ m $ only increases linearily . This means that we might do something with increasing $ v $ . That means that airplanes have to go faster before liftoff , which will need drastically longer takeoff lanes . Note that we ca n't keep increasing $ v $ because we ca n't lose control . In summary , things we can improve are $ v $ , the speed , $ C_L $ , with technological innovations and $ \ rho $ by lowering flying height . However , it is not practical .
First , AF 447 was flying into the top of a tropical storm . The air was much more humid and warmer than that of the <URL> . Next , in the absence of seed crystals or nuclei , water vapour or liquid droplets stay in the air down to <URL> without freezing . From the linked article : Droplets of supercooled water often exist in stratiform and cumulus clouds . An aircraft flying through such a cloud sees an abrupt crystallization of these droplets , which can result in the formation of ice on the aircraft 's wings or blockage of its instruments and probes , unless the aircraft is equipped with an appropriate de-icing system . Freezing rain is also caused by supercooled droplets . So it was the impact with the probe which caused the supercooled droplets to freeze .
It 's entirely possible . Attitude control works the same way during autorotation as it does during normal powered flight . It 's a good thing , too ... during an autorotation you want to target your descent toward a suitable landing spot :-) To ( say ) roll right , moving the cyclic causes the swashplate to move in such a way that the rotor blade 's pitch ( angle of attack ) is greater during the left-side portion of the blade 's travel , and lower during the right-side portion . This produces more lift on the left side , which causes a right-rolling moment on the helicopter . The fact that the collective is all the way down and that the rotor 's RPM is being maintained by airflow through the rotor does not change the way the cyclic produces attitude changes . The anti-torque pedals still work too , although during an autorotation the pilot will promptly apply full right pedal , since lowering the collective will essentially eliminate torque from the rotor . Pedals can still be used for yaw though , as the tail rotor is still spinning ( it is linked to the main rotor ) . The " 180 ° turning autorotation " is a common maneuver taught in basic training , where the pilot must set up the autorotative descent and then complete a 180 ° turn toward a landing spot . For more information about autorotations in general , I recommend the FAA 's ( free online ) <URL> . See page 2-24 for a general description , and page 11-2 for procedures/technique . There are also lots of autorotation demonstration videos on <URL> that show maneuvering to a landing spot / 180 ° turns during the auto .
There were a lot of other mitigating factors in the Colgan Air 3407 crash . Was that one recoverable ? It depends . It never should have got to the point of a stall in the first place . It was more preventable than recoverable . But in answer to your question , again , it depends . Every aircraft in the air can stall and be recovered , if responded to properly . But the plane may very well bend and break if the stall develops too far . Then it may not be recoverable . And most large airliners ( or aircraft bigger than a few thousand pounds with multiple engines ) are n't designed for the stresses of spins , so they never teach to a full stall . In those types of aircraft a full stall is much more dangerous , and they can be much more difficult to recover from , especially if you break something . Besides , in aircraft like that , you should receive plenty of direct warning long before you reach the point of a stall . When I was teaching , stalls and spins were one of my favorite subjects for early pilots . Especially in light trainers like the Cessna 150/152s . Those aircraft were always incredibly good at stalls/spins and incredibly forgiving . You can put a Cessna into a hands-off full stall if you trim it right , and it will stop rotating in a spin if you simply let go of it ( and have enough altitude ) . I always taught my students spin recovery from a full spin , even at the Private Pilot level . And usually shortly after teaching them full stalls . I would stall it , make it rotate at least 3 or 4 times , and have them recover the spin . Then have them do it themselves . I never had to worry about my students not knowing how to recover from an unintentional stall/spin . By the time my students were learning to fly multis , I was teaching them more stall recognition and avoidance than recovery . Recovery is essentially the same in all aircraft . You just have to be sure to not reach that point . There 's only one thing you really need with any aircraft in a stall/spin , and that 's altitude . Unfortunately , takeoffs and landings are the most likely places for you to get behind the aircraft and let it unintentionally stall/spin . That 's why you learn how to recognize them very early in your pilot training . You ca n't spin without a stall first , and just about any airplane will give you fair warning before you stall it . The trick is recognizing the situation before it becomes serious .
The ship 's complement for a Nimitz class carrier is 3200 . That is the crew required to maintain ship operations . A further 2480 crew comprise the Air Wing - everyone needed to perform duties directly associated with flying activities , including maintenance , ordnance handling , emergencies , etc. . It 's treated as a separate entity because any one of ten Air Wings could be embarked on a carrier at any given time . That is a total crew of 5680 . I could n't find a breakdown of specific trades or ranks for either entity . Source : <URL> Note that the newer Gerald R. Ford class carriers make extensive use of automation , and so have several hundred fewer crew members in the ship 's complement .
<URL> notes that medical oxygen containers - whether for the storage , generation , or dispensing of oxygen - must be : 135.91 . a. 1 . i Of an approved type or in conformity with the manufacturing , packaging , marking , labeling , and maintenance requirements of title 49 CFR parts 171 , 172 , and 173 , except § 173.24 ( a ) ( 1 ) 135.91 . a. 1 . ii When owned by the certificate holder , maintained under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program ; 135.91 . a. 1 . iii Free of flammable contaminants on all exterior surfaces ; and 135.91 . a. 1 . iv Appropriately secured . 135.91 . a. 2 When the oxygen is stored in the form of a liquid , the equipment must have been under the certificate holder 's approved maintenance program since its purchase new or since the storage container was last purged . 135.91.a.3.i-ii When the oxygen is stored in the form of a compressed gas as defined in title 49 CFR 173.300 ( a ) When owned by the certificate holder , it must be maintained under its approved maintenance program ; and The pressure in any oxygen cylinder must not exceed the rated cylinder pressure . 135.91 . a. 4 The pilot in command must be advised when the equipment is on board , and when it is intended to be used . 135.91 . a. 5 The equipment must be stowed , and each person using the equipment must be seated , so as not to restrict access to or use of any required emergency or regular exit , or of the aisle in the passenger compartment . 135.91 . b No person may smoke and no certificate holder may allow any person to smoke within 10 feet of oxygen storage and dispensing equipment carried under paragraph ( a ) of this section . 135.91.c No certificate holder may allow any person other than a person trained in the use of medical oxygen equipment to connect or disconnect oxygen bottles or any other ancillary component while any passenger is aboard the aircraft 135.91 . d Paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section does not apply when that equipment is furnished by a professional or medical emergency service for use on board an aircraft in a medical emergency when no other practical means of transportation ( including any other properly equipped certificate holder ) is reasonably available and the person carried under the medical emergency is accompanied by a person trained in the use of medical oxygen . Part 91 does not seem to speak to medical oxygen Additionally , a <URL> notes that : In the DOT final rule , section 382.133 generally requires that air carriers conducting passenger service must permit someone with a disability to use an FAA-approved portable oxygen concentrator ( POC ) on all flights ( on aircraft originally designed to have a maximum passenger capacity of more than 19 seats ) unless the device does not meet applicable FAA requirements for medical portable electronic devices ( M-PED ) and does not display a manufacturer 's label that indicates the device meets those FAA requirements . The page goes on to list approved oxygen containers . So , it seems that the FAA does not consider POCs to be hazardous , so long as they meet certain FAA approval standards . ( If you are asking about General Aviation requirements , I would assume an FAA-certified POC is okay to bring on a GA flight as well )
Smelling exhaust in the cockpit is not normal . Tell your instructor and squawk the problem . Bonus - turn it into a learning experience by arranging to be with the A&amp;P when he decowls and inspects . You can learn a lot about the engine that way . If you are getting a headache from this you may have mild CO poisoning . This does need to be checked out .
Yes , you are correct . You need three pieces of information : airspeed true compass heading ( considering magnetic variation ) multiple absolute position fixes ( eg . from gps ) The aircraft heading has to be measured by a compass within the aircraft ( it ca n't be derived from the gps track ) , and the gps position can be used to look up the local magnetic variation . The difference between the speed/heading and the ground track ( in straight and level flight , anyway ) is attributable to winds aloft .
is the speed reported in this story wrong ? No No it is not a misprint that the SR-72 is intended to be capable of Mach 6 From the <URL> : Envisioned as an unmanned aircraft , the SR-72 would fly at speeds up to Mach 6 , or six times the speed of sound . At this speed , the aircraft would be so fast , an adversary would have no time to react or hide . The SR-72 's design incorporates lessons learned from the HTV-2 , which flew to a top speed of Mach 20 , or 13,000 mph , with a surface temperature of 3500 ° F. Yes Yes it is not true that Mach 6 is necessarily 4567.2423 MPH From <URL> : <URL> Cmglee . License : CC by SA 3
Aircraft carriers using <URL> ( the skyramp ) always need to maintain a speed of about 55kmph in order for the Aircrafts on them to take off . This is done to generate enough windspeed on the deck to assist the aircraft to take off . And STOBAR system already hampers the carrying capacity of aircraft , so for takeoff from a STOBAR carrier at rest , a further reduction in Takeoff weight of the aircraft would be required to generate enough lift for the aircraft to take off at such low speeds . This reduction in weight would depend on the Aircraft carrier and the aircraft as such and might create scenarios where this is entirely not possible . For Aircraft Carriers equipped with <URL> , the conventional steam piston drive which is used to catapult the aircraft provides approximately 95 MegaJoules of energy to accelerate the aircraft to speeds where it can takeoff safely . Hence the arguments stated about the STOBAR carriers can be sequentially applied to this class as well . But recent <URL> provides around 122 MegaJoules of energy to accelerate the aircraft . Given the extra amount of energy available to accelerate the aircraft at higher speeds , it is quite possible that it is going to be easier for the Aircraft to take off from a static aircraft carrier equipped with electromagnetic catapults when compared to the aircraft carriers equipped with convention steam piston catapults . But the exact details for the feasibility of this idea would be a matter of national interest and might not be available online . Also , one should not ignore the extra amount of stresses that an aircraft would have to face while taking off from a stationary aircraft carrier as it would have to accelerate to a higher speed at the same available length of the runway and hence this might prove determinant to the lifetime of the aircraft . Edit : Under research technologies such as <URL> , if implemented would also assist further in reducing the weight of the aircraft and hence make it easier for the aircraft to take off from carriers at much lower speeds .
In addition to the systems listed by RedGrittyBrick , it is also possible to let the aircraft detect itself , from its sensors , potential crashes . This problem has been studied , and is pretty well documented in a report made by the BEA ( the French equivalent of the NTSB ) after the crash of the flight AF447 . The full report is available in <URL> and in <URL> . I made a summary of their work in this answer . The solution proposed in this report is a triggered transmission of flight data . The aircraft transmits them only if it detects a potentially dangerous situation from its sensors ( this reduces the load on communication systems ) . Two types of triggering criterion are proposed : One base on binary logic One based on Fuzzy logic They both take into account several parameters ( speed , pitch angle , pilot 's inputs ... ) and verify some relations about them . For example , if , something is probably wrong . The criterion have been check against a database of real flight data recovered from crashed aircrafts , in order to assess their performances : The robustness of the triggering criteria was evaluated using the following metrics : False detection rate ( or nuisance trigger rate ) : out of all the normal flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation Nuisance transmission time that the nuisance triggers generate Emergency situation detection rate : out of all the accident/incident flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation For flights with a correctly detected emergency situation , what is the warning time between the time of detection and the time of impact with the surface The conclusion of these tests is that accidents were almost always predicted ( binary logic failed in only one case out of 44 , fuzzy logic detected every case ) . On average , the problem was raised about 350s before the actual crash ( the median is around 33s , minimum at 3s and maximum at 10,019 s ) . The second half of the report discusses different system to transmit these triggered alarms to infrastructures on the ground . It is also interesting and well written , but outside the scope of this question .
Imagine you have a 60 knot headwind . You have to fly an indicated airspeed of 60 knots and you can hover over the ground . If you want you can try it out in flight sim , it makes lots of fun . That 's called a STOL .
I have recently flown on a China Eastern A330-200 from Shanghai to Beijing and that noise was heard around 10.000 feet both on the way up and on the way down . It sounds awful ! Everybody was rather worried , including myself who , despite being a frequent flyer , had never heard that noise . At first I thought it was some fatigue issue of the aircraft skin while " inflating " as internal pressure increased . But a few days later I flew on a Cathay Pacific A330-300 from Hong Kong to Jakarta , and after hearing that noise again , I asked a flight attendant who told me it was likely ice crystals in the air conditioning tubes that form when the outside air is very humid . She said she heard it many times and it 's considered normal on A330 's .
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
Honestly , every U.S. Air Force pilot I know , who wanted to retire to the airlines , got hired on with no problems . The ex-Air Force pilots I know have all gotten immediately put into the big planes : A380 , 747 , 767 , 787 , etc right from the start . This is because the airlines know that an ex-military pilot has had some of the best training and experience in high pressure situations . That being said , in the USA it is very hard to become an Air Force pilot . You have to contract with the Air Force before they even let you know if you can go to pilot training . That means , if you do n't make the cutoff for pilot training , you have to spend at least 4 years in the Air Force . If you do make it through Air Force pilot training you have to contract for 10 years after you finish flight school , which means about 12 years from your date of commissioning . This will take a good 16 + years out of your life , including the time spent in college . However , you will progress from your first flight all the way to potentially flying F-22s in under two years - a rate of progressing you wo n't see anywhere else . Bottom line is , if you do n't want to join the military then you should n't . By joining the military you are expected to give your life for people you may not know , or even care about . That aside , there 's no point in spending a minimum of 16 years doing something you do n't like , or fighting for a cause you do n't support just to become an airline pilot . If you can find a good airline cadet program , or scholarship , you can become a great airline pilot , it will just take a longer time to progress from one aircraft to another . Just a little tangent . That being said , I 'm currently an AFROTC cadet , and I had no military background . I love AFROTC , the US Air Force , and the USA . I 'm currently applying for a pilot slot in the U.S. Air Force , but if I do n't make it I would be vary happy taking other jobs , too . The key is to have small , achievable goals that you can take one step at a time . I wish you the best of luck .
Then It used to matter , because aircraft would sometimes approach the carrier at a lower altitude than even the flight deck before pulling up briefly and practically stalling onto the deck , allowing for a lower speed landing . Similarly , the higher flight deck would give an extra couple of metres of acceleration if over-shooting the flight deck and having to go around . As such a high-decked carrier gave a little more margin for error . Now It makes virtually no difference - modern aircraft approach at the same angle and airspeed regardless of the height of the deck ( within reason ) . They also perform approaches significantly more accurately . If anything , the higher deck could be considered a ( very ) slight disadvantage , as it may display a higher rolling moment than a low deck carrier . This is unlikely to cause any issues , however .
end question
start question
How can I find out how much a passenger window of a Boeing 737 costs ?
<URL> has declared values for part shipments , including one with the 140N2139-4 , which is the assembly containing the seal , mid pane , and outer pane for the 737 NG . The declared value is 24,562 INR which is currently about 375 USD . A shipment of 20 also listed has a lower unit price . For searching purposes GKN has part numbers in <URL> You typically have to ask for a quote from suppliers .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
Wings may be tough to come by as they generally last the life of the plane and can be re-skinned/fixed if need be so they are not scrapped all that frequently . You can try a used parts dealer like <URL> or <URL> but they generally deal in air worthy parts which will not be cheap . Here is a guy <URL> he " has wings " , you may want to give him a call and check other part out <URL> adds . Your best bet may be to wonder on down to your local GA field and ask some questions at the FBO or maintenance facility if there is one . Its more than likely someone has a wing or wing section that is no longer air worthy from some accident or the like . You may even just see a junked wing sitting in a field behind a hangar ... STC 's are specific to part or aircraft/engine so testing on a generic wing may not be a good basis ( depending on what you are doing ) you may want to get the wing from the aircraft you intend to STC .
So there 's a lot going on in your question to address . First , and most importantly , the info you linked is for ATC , not pilots . you wo n't get any usable info of how to fly IFR in this airspace . You wo n't need to know any of this to fly IFR . You wo n't need any of this to fly VFR either , for what it 's worth . When you fly IFR you file a flight plan that includes your route , destination , and nav points , which are those funny named things like WAVEY in the chart you linked . This is done before you even step in to the plane . Generally a day ahead or early in the morning of your flight , but you can file it right before . a lot of pilots ( this is for non-commercial ) will take off VFR and then " pick up " their filed flight plan after they are en route . this means you do n't have to wait for an IFR release on departure . You just take off , fly in the general direction you are headed , and then ATC will direct you via nav points the rest of the way ( or if you 're lucky tell you to proceed " as filed " , which means no changes to your original plan ) . For commercial they do n't usually have to wait for the release because they are scheduled flights . Thats kind of a different world . I bring up how it happens for non-commercial because you will do a LOT of that kind of flying before you have to be worried about how United and Delta get off the ground . an IFR approach plate for pilots is still confusing , but there is n't nearly as much going on as what you have linked . Approaches are very very specific for the runway , type of approach ( look up types of instrument approaches ) , and a number of other factors . specific to the point of each has a special thing you do if you ca n't land for any reason and have to " go missed " . This is a huge portion of the IFR training , and nobody can really be self taught this or know how to do it right away . IFR is the hardest rating for a reason . Do n't get too cocky about being able to talk to ATC while VFR . Thousands of experienced pilots a year go through comms training because it 's hard . In vatsim is one thing , but the real world of radio is one of the most stressful and elusive parts of the flight . get something wrong and you can lose your license or your life . If you want to get started with reading charts go to sportys.com and buy their VFR sectional training chart . It 's 3 dollars and gets you a manageable section of a navigational chart to learn how to plan and plot and read an aeronautical chart . Theres a lot going on there , you have true longitude and magnetic longitude lines , VORs , airport info , waypoints , obstructions , ground levels , airspace , MOAs . Do n't think of VFR as " the easy flying " .
This headline made the news this week : <URL> : The passenger , Ann Kristin Balto from Tromsø , noticed the highly disconcerting leak as the plane was taxiing to the runway -- before it actually took off . After alerting the stewardess , the flight was immediately cancelled . So fuel leaks are one thing you could look out for !
The test was carried out by the Sandia National Laboratories under terms of a contract with the Muto Institute of Structural Mechanics , Inc. , of Tokyo . The <URL> : ... was to determine the impact force , versus time , due to the impact , of a complete F-4 Phantom -- including both engines -- onto a massive , essentially rigid reinforced concrete target ( 3.66 meters thick ) . The reports on the tests can be found in these places : <URL> by von Rieseman , W. A. et al.and <URL> by K. Muto et . al. . Interestingly , the aircraft used in the tests were flyable . The report notes : A flyable F4D aircraft was acquired by Sandia . The aircraft was modified slightly in order to support the aircraft at four locations with a special carriage structure . ... the aircraft weighed 12.7 tonnes ( with some avionics removed ) . The impact weight was 19 tonnes , which included ... 4.8 tonnes of water that was added to simulate the fuel weight ... The target consisted of a block of reinforced concrete 7m square and 3.66 m thick ... with a combined weight of 469 tonnes . The aircraft was crashed with the engines and <URL> : A fully functional F4 was used in the impact test.Only the gears and flaps at the main wings were partly removed and replaced by a carriage structure and sleds . This can also been in the following mass distribution diagram for the aircraft used in the test . <URL> Image from <URL> by von Rieseman , W. A. et al. . Finally , the test was for measuring the impact forces , not the strength of the wall , <URL> : At Sandia , a spokesman , John German , said the point of the test was to move the wall , as a way to measure the impact forces . ... as a preliminary step in building a computer model of such impacts , ... Mr. German said : " That test was designed to measure the impact force of a fighter jet . But the wall was not being tested . No structure was being tested . "
It really depends on the state , though you ca n't land in National Parks ( the National Park Service regulates that , not the FAA ) . The FAA does n't care where you land it , though if you ball it up due to poor choice of landing area then they 'll have something to say . Some states do n't really care where you land ( like Oregon ) , others do n't let you land anywhere ( like New Jersey ) . You should contact your state and get the regulations from them .
<URL> has a list of the various transponder codes and what they are used for , which will give you an idea of what the problem is . Unless there is an actual aircraft incident or accident which requires the FAA to investigate though , you wo n't be able to find a record of it . In fact , pilots are n't even required to file a report unless requested , and those do n't go into a public database . For actual incidents or accidents , you can look at the NTSB <URL> . For pilot reports to the NASA ASRS self-reporting safety system , you can <URL> . If the pilot filed a report then you will see it show up there . Commonly used emergency codes are : 7500 - Hijack Code 7600 - Loss of Radio Communications Code 7700 - Emergency Code Also , some countries use the code 7000 for VFR traffic ( which is not an emergency code ) , but the US uses 1200 instead .
The number will vary depending on the aircraft type &amp; installed engines ( how much fuel it holds , and how much fuel it burns per hour at taxi speed ) , but the ballpark figure is " Much less than the range in flight " , because the specific fuel consumption figures ( how much power , and thus distance , you get per unit of fuel burned ) are less favorable during taxi than at cruise . To work an example I used the numbers for an A320 <URL> and not checked it burns 270-330kg / hr ( depending on the engines installed ) so let 's split the difference and say 300kg/hr as an average . The A320 can hold around 15,000 kg of fuel , so doing the division it could run its engines at taxi power for around 45 hours . If we assume a taxi speed of 20kts for 45 hours the aircraft could theoretically taxi 900 nautical miles ( 1036 statute miles , or 1667km ) , a little less than one-third of the range in flight .
Excerpt from <URL> Early in the preliminary design effort , Boeing had taken a careful look at the in service performance and accident history of previous airplane designs . The conclusions were interesting : In flight troubleshooting sometimes led to more serious problems , occasionally jeopardizing the safety of the flight . The flight engineer 's intense focus on systems problems often distracted one or both of the pilots , sometimes resulting in no one " flying the airplane . " Jet engine reliability was much higher than piston engines and they required little or no in flight troubleshooting or adjustment . Certain high workload periods during departure and arrival left little time for outside watch nor much time for handling abnormal events . In support of industry work to establish rational external vision requirements for transport airplanes , Boeing developed a computer model that determined the relative collision threat value of the visual space around the aircraft . Because airplanes are in motion and at a positive angle of attack , the computer model showed that the collision threat is concentrated generally forward and below the longitudinal axis of the airplane . In response to these findings the design team took a different approach to the 737 flight deck : A concerted effort would be made to simplify systems designs to increase reliability and to eliminate or greatly reduce the need for in flight trouble shooting . A Flight Deck design group would participate in all flight deck design decisions and would have considerable authority in the design of controls , indicators , and operating concepts across all airplane systems . Workload assessment would be used as an integral element of design to adjust functionality and location of equipment and controls . Operating procedures would be simplified and shortened to reduce distractions and provide ample time for outside watch . The autopilot would be improved to better support operations in the terminal area not just in cruise . The pilot 's stations would be designed to maximize external vision in the primary collision threat zone . So it seems that a lot of the changes that facilitated the movement to a 2-crew flight deck were procedural ones rather than engineering challenges . Jet engines by that time did n't require constant attention and adjustments . It seems that this movement towards a reduced cockpit count was the result of " too many cooks in the kitchen " , and while not explicitly mentioned it seems like <URL> was a driving factor ( Edit : or at least they wanted to prevent something like that , turns out EA401 did n't happen until 1972 when the 737 was introduced in 1968 ) . I 'm guessing though that this wo n't completely answer what you are looking for , I 'm sure you 'd want to see the specific input that the " Flight Deck Design Group " offered for the placement of controls and indicators . I guess one way of figuring this out would be to compare the cockpit layout of the 727 and 737 , as far as I can find , those design decisions are n't published .
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
If you know the rolling speed at a given flight speed , you can calculate the aileron effectiveness and use that to calculate the forces . The final rolling speed is reached when roll damping and the aileron-induced rolling moment reach an equilibrium : $ $ c _ { l \ xi } \ cdot \ frac { \ xi_l - \ xi_r } { 2 } = - c _ { lp } \ cdot \ frac { p \ cdot b } { 2 \ cdot v _ \ infty } $ $ Thus , your aileron effectiveness is $ $ c _ { l \ xi } = - c _ { lp } \ cdot \ frac { p \ cdot b } { v _ \ infty \ cdot ( \ xi_l - \ xi_r ) } $ $ The roll damping term is for unswept wings $ $ c _ { lp } = - \ frac { 1 } { 4 } \ cdot \ frac { \ pi \ cdot AR } { \ sqrt { \ frac { AR ^ 2 } { 4 } +4 } +2 } $ $ and the moment per aileron now is $ $ M = c _ { l \ xi } \ cdot \ xi \ cdot S _ { ref } \ cdot b \ cdot q _ \ infty $ $ Calculate the moment for each aileron separately ; normally the left and right deflection angles are not exact opposites , which helps to reduce stick forces . If you only need an approximation , maybe do it like this : You first need to have all dimensions and the deflection angles . I expect you do n't have lift polars of the wing section , so you need to approximate the lift increase due to aileron deflection with general formulas . This is $ $ c _ { l \ xi } = c _ { l \ alpha } \ cdot \ sqrt { \ lambda } \ cdot \ frac { S _ { aileron } } { S _ { ref } } \ cdot \ frac { y _ { aileron } } { b } $ $ and the moment per aileron now is $ $ M = c _ { l \ xi } \ cdot \ xi \ cdot S _ { ref } \ cdot b \ cdot q _ \ infty = c _ { l \ alpha } \ cdot \ sqrt { \ lambda } \ cdot \ xi \ cdot S _ { aileron } \ cdot y _ { aileron } \ cdot q _ \ infty $ $ Nomenclature : $ p \ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ dimensionless rolling speed ( = $ \ omega_x \ cdot \ frac { b } { 2 \ cdot v _ \ infty } $ ) . $ \ omega_x $ is the roll rate in radians per second . $ b \ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ wing span $ c _ { l \ xi } \ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ aileron lift increase with deflection angles $ \ xi $ $ \ xi _ { l , r } \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ left and right aileron deflection angles ( in radians ) $ c _ { lp } \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ roll damping $ c _ { l \ alpha } \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ the wing 's lift coefficient gradient over angle of attack . See <URL> on how to calculate it . $ \ pi \ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ 3.14159 $ \ dots $ $ AR \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ aspect ratio of the wing $ \ lambda \ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ relative aileron chord $ S _ { aileron } \ : $ Surface area of the aileron-equipped part of the wing $ S _ { ref } \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ Reference area ( normally the wings 's area ) $ y _ { aileron } \ : $ spanwise center of the aileron-equipped part of the wing $ v _ \ infty \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ true flight speed $ q _ \ infty \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ dynamic pressure Depending on the relative chord length of the aileron , this formula is good for maximum deflections of 20 ° of a 20 % chord aileron or 15 ° deflection of a 30 % chord aileron . Remember : This is a rough estimate for straight wings .
Not likely . Pilots wear headphones , so we can not hear the idle prattle of the pax in the hold . In any case , we do n't take orders from passengers . Think about that for a second : would you like it if aircraft pilots followed the instructions of a crazy screaming passenger ? What if there were TWO crazy screaming passengers giving contradictory commands ? Which one should we obey ? In any case , nowadays cockpit doors are closed during flight anyway . <URL>
Do n't chase the ball . Heck if you 're VFR/VMC , you should barely be glancing at the ball or any of your instruments and should have eyes outside . Remember flying a little uncoordinated alone is not going to force a spin . Stall + Yaw = Spin So how do we mitigate this during gusty approaches ? We fly a little bit faster . I like to use 1/2 the gust factor and add that to my final approach speed . I 'm not saying accept being uncoordinated , but when it 's gusty out you do n't chase airspeed , so why chase the ball ?
At that point it was indeed the flaps extending in preparation of takeoff ( you can see them moving through the rain ) . You would typically also be able to hear the cargo doors closing ( before the plane starts taxiing ) and the engines ramping up as you start to take off ( <URL> in the same video ) .
Since he does n't manage to make it back to the runway from his 2000 ft engine flameout run I was wondering if not deploying the RAT would make any difference due to reduced drag ? No , because it deploys automatically . Note that in the video in the first attempt the step is not done because there is less time . It is probably included in the checklist just in case the automation did n't do it 's job . Nevertheless , let 's try to estimate the drag . All I could quickly find about the RAT is that the attached electric generator provides 5 kW , but that should be enough . We need to take into account the hydraulic pump and power losses , but the generator would n't be insignificant part of the load , so we could guess that the turbine does not have more than 50 kW of drag . Now potential energy is $ E_p = mhg $ , differentiating by time we get $ P = v _ { vert } mg $ and solving for vertical speed $ v _ { vert } = \ frac { P } { mg } $ . Taking some " median " weight of 60 t ( A320 has MZFW 62.5 t and MLW 66 t ) and substituting we get : $ $ v _ { vert } = \ frac { 50 \ \ mathrm { kW } } { 6 \ cdot10 ^ 4 \ \ mathrm { kg } \ cdot 9.8 \ \ mathrm { ms } ^ { -2 } } \ approx 0.085 \ \ mathrm { ms } ^ { -1 } \ approx 17 \ \ mathrm { ft/min } $ $ So the deployed RAT increases the rate of descent by less than 20 ft/min . Now the video mentions the best glide speed would be 205 knots ( I suppose it is for the 1 + F configuration ; for clean it sounds too low , though I do n't have a reference for this ) . Since the L/D ratio is around 18 , that would give the total descent rate about : $ $ v _ { vert } = \ frac { 205 \ mathrm { knot } } { 18 } \ approx 11 \ mathrm { knot } \ approx 1150 \ mathrm { ft/min } $ $ Except , well , 18 is clean L/D . The L/D at 1 + F is a bit lower . I do n't have reference for that either , but something like 10 -- 12 sounds right , so : $ $ v _ { vert } = \ frac { 205 \ mathrm { knot } } { 12 } \ approx 17 \ mathrm { knot } \ approx 1730 \ mathrm { ft/min } $ $ . That is about 100 times more . So the RAT might increase drag by 1 % . It was very rough estimate , so it may be 2 % or 0.5 % , but it definitely is n't that significant . Would the on-board batteries and windmilling engines be able to provide sufficient power for control surfaces ? The training manual mentions that If engine wind milling is sufficient , additional hydraulic power may be recovered . without saying at what speeds that would be , but generally the speed for wind milling engine restart are significantly higher that the best glide speed . I 'd say the necessary speed would be more than 250 knots . Also , are there real life incidents of a 2000 ft ( or lower ) dual engine failure that made a safe return to the runway ? Sully Sullenberger 's A320 had reached approx . 3,000 ft , yet he was forced to ditch rather than return . I ca n't find any other incidents involving dual engine failure on A320-family aircraft besides US Airways 1549 . And I am not aware of any incidents on any other aircraft that would fit that criteria either . It should however be noted , that flight 1549 likely had enough altitude to return to the runway -- if the manoeuvre was executed perfectly . A small mistake and they 'd crash into populated area since the airport is in the middle of a city . The Sullenberger 's great airmanship was in that he chose the worse option that he was certain he can make over the better option where he was not . Does the energy management differ drastically from type to type ? i.e. Among dual engined aircraft would some be easier to land from a 2000 ft dual engine failure than others ? Principally it 's the same for any type . But since turn radius increases drastically with speed , slower aircraft can turn faster and thus could return from lower altitude . Here 's a related question that discusses the manoeuvre ; and it 's dangers : <URL>
What you need is enough lift to remain in the air . For that , the maximum lift of your hang glider needs to exceed the total weight . When you know the total weight of the glider ( you included ) , you can derive the theoretical minimum airspeed from the lift formula : $ $ L _ { max } = \ frac12 { \ rho } V ^ 2C _ { max } S$ $ $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2W } { { \ rho } C _ { max } S } } $ $ Where : $ L$ = lift $ \ rho $ = air density $ V$ = air speed $ C _ { max } $ = maximum lift coefficient $ S$ = wing surface $ W$ = weight Now you have to know your maximum lift coefficient . Suppose this is 1.2 , and for safety and initial manoeuvring , let 's add a margin of 40 % to the weight . Let 's say your mass is 85 kg , and the glider has a mass of 35 kg . The total weight would be 120 kg -- that is about 1,177 N weight , which for the sake of safety margin is increased to 1,650 N. I 'll estimate the surface of the wing to be $ 16m ^ 2 $ . Assume a normal day , the air density will be about $ 1.225 kg/m ^ 3 $ . Filling in the numbers is the formula : $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ times1650 } { 1.225 \ times1 .2 \ times16 } } \ approx 12 \ textrm { m/s } $ $ Any wind speed you get you can subtract from this figure : what is left you have to achieve by pushing , running or diving .
Disclaimer : I borrowed most of this answer from <URL> , but since you did not find it , I reproduce it here . If you found it but is was incomprehensible , please let me know and I try to improve it . Wind just carries the aircraft with it . For the aircraft , everything feels the same , just the ground passes by at the sum of wind and airspeed . The tricky part of the question is about the best airspeed for maximum range with wind . Best range means you cover the most distance while the wind is carrying the plane with it . If you have a headwind , the longer you stay aloft , the more you are carried back , so you better hurry up . With a tailwind , it helps to slow down because now the wind is helping you to cover even more distance . Graphical solution But how much ? We need to pick that particular speed where the change in fuel consumption just balances the change in speed over ground . I always found that easier to explain with gliders , and there you can really observe which polar point is best . Just picture yourself as an observer on the ground who sees the plane fly by in the distance . If you plot a line with the combination of positions and altitude , there must be one flight speed that produces a line where the flight path angle is the shallowest . This is the desired optimum . That has only little to do with optimum L/D - this is just one other point you can find with a sink speed polar . And it happens to be the point for best glide in still air . But there is so much more that humble polar will tell you , if you look at it the right way . With powered aircraft you need to pick the polar point where your fuel flow is lowest for the given speed over ground . Basically , you fly like the glider and add enough power to stay at the same altitude . That is all the difference . Please look at the plot below which shows airspeed on the X axis and sink speed on the Y axis . The solution is graphical : You start on the X-axis at the point which corresponds to the wind speed and put a tangent on the sink speed graph . Where the tangent touches the sink polar ( blue line ) , the plane flies at the best L/D for that given wind speed . Move the starting point to positive speeds for headwind and to negative speeds ( not shown here ) for tailwind . If the term " best L/D " is already reserved in your mind , please read this as the " best polar point " . It is really the same . Analytical solution For powered flight things become more tricky , because thrust changes with speed . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Now for fuel flow : This goes up and down with the power output of the engine . Again a simplification , but it helps to get to grips with the problem and gives useful results . This lets us re-formulate the problem as : At what airspeed do I have the best ratio between power and ground speed ? Mathematically , we want to fly with $ \ frac { P } { v_w + v } $ at the lowest possible value . $ P$ is the power , $ v_w $ is the wind speed and $ v $ the airspeed . To express the thrust behavior over speed , I break P up into a product of a constant $ K_S $ , the throttle setting $ \ delta $ and the speed like this : $ K_S \ cdot \ delta \ cdot v \ cdot v ^ { n_v } $ . Here is the general solution , pasted as a PNG to save me all the typing in the editor : Please note that implicitly the lift coefficient is on both sides of the equation . To solve it , you need to do it recursively , until speed and lift coefficient match . I took this form because of the similarity to the general form at no wind which can be found in many performance books . Now I have put the results into a plot . In order to eliminate the aircraft-specific parameters , it shows the ratio of $ c_L $ with wind over $ c_L $ without wind . The plot is metric , but will work for all units if you use the same units for wind speed and air speed . To give an example for the application of the correction factor : If you are flying in a 20 m/s headwind and your best range speed at still wind is 50 m/s ( approx 97 kts ) , the $ c_L $ needs to be 70 % of the $ c_L $ at still wind for piston-powered aircraft . This makes your corrected airspeed 60 m/s ( v is proportional to $ \ sqrt { c_L } $ ) , and now the recursive nature of the formula rear
Changes to federal aviation regulations are listed on the FAA 's Regulatory &amp; Guidance Library ( RGL ) at <URL> : From the home page , click on the database titled " Code of Federal Regulations " On the left , in the navigation tree , select one of the branches under " Historical CFR " ( for example , " By Part " ) On the right , expand the items leading to the regulation that you are looking for ( in this case Part 61 ) Scroll down to the regulation that you are looking for ( 61.51 ) and it will list the original version and all of the revisions : Each revision is a link which takes you to the regulation as of that version , with links to the NPRM 's and dockets so that you can see what has been changed !
FAA Advisory Circular ( AC ) <URL> covers " standards and recommendations for airport design . " It does not include any restrictions on proximity to bodies of water , but it does make the following recommendation in paragraph 319 ( a ) : It is recommended that the entire RSA and RPZ be accessible to rescue and fire-fighting vehicles such that no part of the RSA or RPZ is more than 330 feet ( 100 m ) from either an all-weather road or a paved operational surface . Where an airport is adjacent to a body of water where access by rescue personnel from airport property is desirable , it is recommended that boat launch ramps with appropriate access roads be provided . The actual FARs ( <URL> ) also do not state a limit . The only reference to bodies of water of any kind is in § 139.325 ( Airport emergency plan ) paragraph ( e ) : The plan required by this section shall contain provisions , to the extent practicable , for the rescue of aircraft accident victims from significant bodies of water or marsh lands adjacent to the airport which are crossed by the approach and departure flight paths of air carriers . A body of water or marsh land is significant if the area exceeds one-quarter square mile and can not be traversed by conventional land rescue vehicles . To the extent practicable , the plan shall provide for rescue vehicles with a combined capacity for handling the maximum number of persons that can be carried on board the largest air carrier aircraft that the airport reasonably can be expected to serve . So , bottom line : there is no limit , but airports are required to take water into due consideration when developing emergency plans , and the FAA looks at each airport and plan on a case-by-case basis during airport certification . As for the rest of the world , I have no authoritative information ; but as others have posted , it certainly seems like the situation is the same , there being numerous examples of airports worldwide built on natural or reclaimed land very close to water .
end question
start question
What is the " non-apologizing rule " ?
I suspect there is no such rule . I looked at a few online sources - none mention the word apology ( or variants ) . ATC communication is expected to be short and follow a standard set of stock phrase forms . Anything outside that is discouraged unless necessary to clarify instructions etc. . FAA An FAA document " <URL> " says Brevity is important , and contacts should be kept as brief as possible , So any communication that does n't follow one of the standard patterns is discouraged . It continues . but controllers must know what you want to do before they can properly carry out their control duties . And you , the pilot , must know exactly what the controller wants you to do . Since concise phraseology may not always be adequate , use whatever words are necessary to get your message across . ICAO An ICAO document " <URL> " says Phraseology has evolved over time and has been carefully developed to provide maximum clarity and brevity in communications while ensuring that phrases are unambiguous . Again the emphasis is on brevity and standard phraseology . It also continues ina similar way to the FAA document . However , while standard phraseology is available to cover most routine situations , not every conceivable scenario will be catered for and RTF users should be prepared to use plain language when necessary following the principle of keeping phrases clear and concise . Other For non-pilot rubberneckers like me , a good intro to pilot-ATC communication is <URL> or <URL> by Don Brown . I remember one time when I was a young controller and working a slow , high-altitude sector . I was bored so I got into a conversation with a pilot about something or other . All of a sudden I noticed this F-15 was in a big turn . He could n't get on the frequency because I was having a conversation .
the <URL> is the line stretching from the leading edge of the wing to the trailing edge parallel to the centerline . <URL> There are different variations to describe the chord of the whole wing . The Standard Mean Chord Defined as $ \ frac S b $ with $ S$ the surface area and $ b $ the span of the wing . This is not used in aerodynamics . The Mean Aerodynamic Chord Defined as $ \ frac2 S \ int_0 ^ { \ frac b 2 } c ( y ) ^ 2 dy $ with $ y $ the coordinate along the wing and $ c ( y ) $ the chord at $ y $ . For swept or delta wings this gives the equivalent chord for a rectangular wing , and is important for placing the Center of Gravity for stability .
In order to fly an SVFR clearance , the pilot and planned flight must meet several criteria . The <URL> as well as <URL> spell out the basic requirements : You must have at least a private pilot certificate to obtain an SVFR clearance during daylight hours as well as an instrument rating to obtain an SVFR clearance at night . Student pilots are not permitted to request an SVFR clearance . You must obtain an SVFR clearance to depart from Class E , D , C and B airspace if visibility is below VFR minimums . SVFR clearance may be prohibited in some Class D , C , and B airspace due to the volume of IFR traffic . Check the airspace NOTAMs for these areas prior to departure . You must have at least 1 statute mile visibility on both the ground and in the air as well as remain clear of clouds ( airplane ) or simply remain clear of clouds and have at least 1 statute mile visibility for operations in Class B , C , and D airspace ( rotorcraft helicopter ) . All an SVFR clearance allows is for a VFR pilot to enter , depart or operate in controlled airspace using day VFR minimums for Class G airspace . If it is done correctly by a competent private pilot and only in these conditions , it can be done safely as it provides the pilot with enough visual references to safely operate in VFR . It is also advisable to do a realistic assessment of one 's own abilities to control an airplane in marginal conditions and set conservative minimums for things like congested airspace or other weather in the area . It is not advisable to do this if weather briefings anticipate IMC after departure . Likewise if you have little experience operating in congested controlled airspace or if you struggle to stay ahead of the airplane under additional stressors , SVFR may not be advisable .
Outside US , SI is generally used for everything except altitude , distance and speed . Altitude : 1000 ft happens to be reasonable vertical separation , which is somewhat easier to calculate with than the corresponding metric figure 300 m. Distance : There are two quantities that were never converted to decimal . Time and angle . Since we did n't switch to gradians , it makes sense to keep nautical mile , which corresponds to 1 minute along meridian or equator , as it makes calculating distances from navigational maps somewhat easier . If the maps were marked in gradian coordinates , 1 gradian would be 100 km and kilometres would be used . Speed : Obviously based on the unit of distance in use . In Russia , Commonwealth of Independent States ( most former Soviet countries ) and China ( and I am not sure whether some other Asian countries ) , metric system is used for everything . I believe in Russia they recently switched to flight levels based on feet , but they do use metres below transition altitude . Before second world war , aircraft built in continental Europe usually had instruments in metric units as well . However before the war aviation was more advanced in the USA , instrument procedures were developed in USA and after the war there was surplus of US-built planes , so most of the world just adopted the US procedures including the units they used as everybody using the same units was more important than any personal preferences . Without these reasons we 'd be probably using metric in Europe for everything too .
Honestly ? It 's probably because they heard someone else do it , and thought it sounded cool ( or otherwise just got it stuck in their head ) . You 're 100 % right - saying the runway name is , if slightly longer , certainly a bit more informative . It 's the kind of thing that can help arriving pilots know which runway is in use , keeping later radio clutter ( " Um , uhh , Jeffco Traffic , um , say runway in use ? " ) to a minimum for pilots already on frequency . Even a ' one runway airport ' still has two runways ( 09/27 , for example ) , and it 's nice to know which one you should set up for when winds are light . The preferred terminology is more like " Jeffco Traffic , 3AC , clear 29 " .
I have recently flown on a China Eastern A330-200 from Shanghai to Beijing and that noise was heard around 10.000 feet both on the way up and on the way down . It sounds awful ! Everybody was rather worried , including myself who , despite being a frequent flyer , had never heard that noise . At first I thought it was some fatigue issue of the aircraft skin while " inflating " as internal pressure increased . But a few days later I flew on a Cathay Pacific A330-300 from Hong Kong to Jakarta , and after hearing that noise again , I asked a flight attendant who told me it was likely ice crystals in the air conditioning tubes that form when the outside air is very humid . She said she heard it many times and it 's considered normal on A330 's .
The <URL> ( section 2-4-20 ) say that the ' group form ' should be used by controllers when talking to any aircraft with an FAA authorized call sign . So you would expect to hear it with airline traffic but not private flights : Air carrier and other civil aircraft having FAA authorized call signs . State the call sign followed by the flight number in group form . NOTE - " Group form " is the pronunciation of a series of numbers as the whole number , or pairs of numbers they represent rather than pronouncing each separate digit . The use of group form may , however , be negated by four-digit identifiers or the placement of zeros in the identifier . EXAMPLE − " American Fifty − Two . " " Delta One Hundred . " " Eastern Metro One Ten . " " General Motors Thirty Fifteen . " " United One Zero One . " " Delta Zero One Zero . " " TWA Ten Zero Four . "
The short answer is " If you intentionally pointed the Luxor beam at an aircraft ( flying low enough for it to constitute a hazard ) you would probably be arrested . " -- the real question is What would they charge you with ? , and the FAA regulations are n't where you want to look for that : You need to look in the " United States Code " . <URL> makes it an offense to aim a laser pointer at an aircraft . It goes on to define " laser pointer " as : any device designed or used to amplify electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission that emits a beam designed to be used by the operator as a pointer or highlighter to indicate , mark , or identify a specific position , place , item , or object . The Luxor beam certainly is n't that , so you 're safe there . Instead you will probably be charged under a creative application of <URL> , which says Whoever willfully ... interferes with or disables , with intent to endanger the safety of any person or with a reckless disregard for the safety of human life , anyone engaged in the authorized operation of such aircraft or any air navigation facility aiding in the navigation of any such aircraft ... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than twenty years or both . While this law was originally conceived to deal with in-person threats ( kicking down the cockpit door and clobbering the captain with a frying pan ) it would not take a very creative US Attorney to make the argument that shining a 40 billion candela light at an aircraft 's cockpit would " interfere with or disable " the flight crew , and shows a " reckless disregard for the safety of human life " . Similarly it would not take much creativity to argue that swinging such a beam around in the sky in an area where it may interfere with aircraft operations would also show a " reckless disregard for the safety of human life " , unless you took the time to file an appropriate hazard NOTAM . Note that in my initial statement I said that you would be charged if the aircraft were flying " low enough for it to constitute a hazard " -- as has been pointed out non-coherent light source intensity falls off <URL> , and with sufficient altitude the Luxor beam is just a bright spot on the ground and does n't have anywhere near the effects of <URL> . The Luxor 's beam was in fact <URL> . That section of this report ( and indeed the entire thing ) makes for interesting reading .
The etiology of military power is from War Emergency Power ( WEP ) which in the WWII era was a higher than normal rating power ( i.e. > 100 % rated power ) setting on an aircraft engine . Such power settings were approved for short durations ( typically 5 minutes or less ) such as takeoff and battle maneuvers . The term was quickly shortened to military power . Sometimes military power is assumed to be simply full throttle , but that may not be accurate , particularly in blown engines , where turbochargers or superchargers may be set to permit higher than normal air delivery to the combustion chamber . Finally , military power was used for more extended periods of times , when conditions dictated , but at a reduction in reliability and service life . Sometimes in war , service life is not a pilot 's greatest concern .
Tip jets spin the rotor by blowing out compressed air . It 's the same principle as a jet engine or a jet-ski impeller , just that the exhaust is pushed out through the rotors . Some designs even had jet engines on the rotor tips ! The primary advantage of the design are that there is no torque created , so no need for anti-torque rotors or thrusters , the tip jets also increase the rotor 's moment arm and mass , making autorotation safer in some cases , although the drag from the tip jets often slowed the rotors down in many cases . Some say it is easier to learn to fly and safer to fly a tip jet design as there 's no torque . There are very few systems which use tip rotors , the main disadvantages would seem to be a lack of efficiency and drag from the tip jets . The rotor design is complex as high-pressure air must be carried through them , causing many design and materials challenges . Also , lack of a tail rotor means there 's no way to pivot in hover unless unless you put some sort of tail thruster on .
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
Sure you can . This is from ICAO Doc 4444 : 4.4.2.2.1 A flight plan to be submitted during flight should normally be transmitted to the ATS unit in charge of the FIR , control area , advisory area or advisory route in or on which the aircraft is flying , or in or through which the aircraft wishes to fly or to the aeronautical telecommunication station serving the air traffic services unit concerned . When this is not practicable , it should be transmitted to another ATS unit or aeronautical telecommunication station for retransmission as required to the appropriate air traffic services unit . 4.4.2.2.2 Where relevant , such as in respect of ATC units serving high - or medium-density airspace , the appropriate ATS authority should prescribe conditions and/or limitations with respect to the submission of flight plans during flight to ATC units . And this is from SERA ( Standardized European Rules of the Air ) : SERA .4001 ( c ) A flight plan shall be submitted , before departure , to an air traffic services reporting office or , during flight , transmitted to the appropriate air traffic services unit or air-ground control radio station , unless arrangements have been made for submission of repetitive flight plans .
The MMEL and MEL list items that can be inop while still dispatching the aircraft , it also lists any required restrictions of that system being inop . I think <URL> , which is the preamble for all MMELs , gives some of the best information : First they set the basis of an MEL , that every system/function of the aircraft must be operation to dispatch . This restriction can be superseded by the MEL : The following is applicable for authorized certificate holders operating under Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations ( 14 CFR ) Parts 121 , 125 , 129 , 135 : 14 CFR require that all equipment installed on an aircraft in compliance with the Airworthiness Standards and the Operating Rules must be operative . However , the Rules also permit the publication of a Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) where compliance with certain equipment requirements is not necessary in the interests of safety under all operating conditions . Then they tell you that MEL includes items that are allowed to be inoperative along with any limitations : The FAA approved MMEL includes those items of equipment related to airworthiness and operating regulations and other items of equipment which the Administrator finds may be inoperative and yet maintain an acceptable level of safety by appropriate conditions and limitations The individual operator 's MEL , when approved and authorized , permits operation of the aircraft with inoperative equipment . Equipment not required by the operation being conducted and equipment in excess of 14 CFR requirements are included in the MEL with appropriate conditions and limitations . The MEL must not deviate from the Aircraft Flight Manual Limitations , Emergency Procedures or with Airworthiness Directives . It is important to remember that all equipment related to the airworthiness and the operating regulations of the aircraft not listed on the MMEL must be operative . The image below is from the <URL> , as you can see it lists items that can be inoperative and the limitation . Some items carry many restrictions , such as anti-skid or a pack , others carry none , such as reading lights . The MMELs are available on the FAA 's website , so it can be an interesting read . <URL> I do not know why the terminology is backwards , I assume it comes from a time aircraft were much less complex and an list of required items was realistic . But if it only listed items that were required for flight , you could end up with hundreds of systems inop , with no direct requirement to repair them . PL-34 addresses this a little bit : The MEL is intended to permit operation with inoperative items of equipment for a period of time until repairs can be accomplished . It is important that repairs be accomplished at the earliest opportunity . In order to maintain an acceptable level of safety and reliability the MMEL establishes limitations on the duration of and conditions for operation with inoperative equipment . and Operators are responsible for exercising the necessary operational control to ensure that an acceptable level of safety is maintained . When operating with multiple inoperative items , the interrelationships between those items and the effect on aircraft operation and crew workload will be considered . Basically the take away from this is that an operator can not issue every MEL in the book and dispatch the aircraft . For example , it may be okay to MEL one AC pack or one AC pack temp control valve , but it would not be okay to MEL one pack and the temp control valve on the other pack .
The <URL> says yes granted the cockpit is approved and the required additional equipment is met ( refer to EASA AFM ) . Minimum Flight Crew : One pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) plus additional equipment as specified in the Limitations Section of the EASA Approved Airplane Flight Manual The related note : Approval for operation with a minimum crew of one pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) is based upon the cockpit equipment installation and arrangement evaluated during ANAC certification testing . No significant changes may be made to the installed cockpit equipment or arrangement ( EFIS , autopilot , avionics , etc. ) , except as permitted by the approved MMEL , without prior approval from the responsible Aircraft Certification Office .
What does your POH/AFM says ? Ignoring winds and other factors , it depends on effective runway length , not just runway length . If you have a runway long ( really long ) enough , you can takeoff/land in either direction . As mentioned <URL> : ... advantage or disadvantage of a sloped runway is that a 1 % runway gradient -- an increase or decrease in altitude of 10 ' for every 1000 ' of runway length -- is equivalent to a 10 % increase or decrease in effective runway length ... Example : Runway length is 1500 ' with 3 % up-slope gradient Landing uphill on it will give us an effective runway length of almost 2000 ' ( 1500 ' x 1.3 = 1950 ' ) . Landing downhill on it will give us an effective runway length of just over 1000 ' ( 1500 ' x 0.7 = 1050 ' ) . Just for reference , the runway ( 6 : uphill ; 24 : downhill ) at Lukla Airport has 12 % gradient and is 1500 ' long . Effective Runway Lengths ( using the formula above ) Hence , hypothetically speaking , if runway 24 is 48,400 ' long with no wind , A380 <URL> takeoff too .
What I have learned during my commercial flight training is making use of the speed number . Take your TAS , devide it by 60 . This is your speed number . Now take you XWC ( crosswind component ) . Devide the XWC by your speed number . This is the amount of degrees you should crab to stay on track ( wind correction angle ) Lets use an example : We are flying in a C172 at 120kts TAS . XWC is 18kts from the left . 120 devided by 60 is 2 , so our speed number is 2 . 18kts wind devided by 2 is 9 . Now adjust your heading by 9 degrees to the left ( into the wind ) , and you should stay on track . Worked perfectly fine for me so far . Hope it helps ! Cheers
I suspect there is no such rule . I looked at a few online sources - none mention the word apology ( or variants ) . ATC communication is expected to be short and follow a standard set of stock phrase forms . Anything outside that is discouraged unless necessary to clarify instructions etc. . FAA An FAA document " <URL> " says Brevity is important , and contacts should be kept as brief as possible , So any communication that does n't follow one of the standard patterns is discouraged . It continues . but controllers must know what you want to do before they can properly carry out their control duties . And you , the pilot , must know exactly what the controller wants you to do . Since concise phraseology may not always be adequate , use whatever words are necessary to get your message across . ICAO An ICAO document " <URL> " says Phraseology has evolved over time and has been carefully developed to provide maximum clarity and brevity in communications while ensuring that phrases are unambiguous . Again the emphasis is on brevity and standard phraseology . It also continues ina similar way to the FAA document . However , while standard phraseology is available to cover most routine situations , not every conceivable scenario will be catered for and RTF users should be prepared to use plain language when necessary following the principle of keeping phrases clear and concise . Other For non-pilot rubberneckers like me , a good intro to pilot-ATC communication is <URL> or <URL> by Don Brown . I remember one time when I was a young controller and working a slow , high-altitude sector . I was bored so I got into a conversation with a pilot about something or other . All of a sudden I noticed this F-15 was in a big turn . He could n't get on the frequency because I was having a conversation .
Although Lnafziger 's answer is correct , I 'd like to elaborate on the purpose of the airspace classes . Class A : This airspace is intended for high-speed , point to point travel . That is why pilots flying in Class A must be instrument rated and in contact with air traffic control ( ATC ) ; aircraft above 18,000 feet are likely to travel quickly and may not have time to avoid each other visually . This is the upper layer of the airspace system . * Class B : This airspace is intended for large airports with lots of jet traffic . The large number and size of aircraft require space for ATC to get them efficiently in and out of the airports . Approach control services are provided . As a result , class B areas are physically large . It is possible for small aircraft flying under visual flight rules to operate here with explict ATC permission , though permission to enter may be denied during periods of high traffic . Small piston-powered aircraft land at Class B airports infrequently , typically due to high landing fees and fuel prices . Class C : Smaller airports with a mix of piston-powered aircraft and jets . Most Class C airports are home to flight schools and small aircraft hangars as well as scheduled service by airlines . While still busy , Class C airports have less traffic than Class B , so ATC does n't need as much space to keep them organized . Like Class B , approach control services are provided . Pilots are only required to establish two-way communication to enter the airspace . Class D : The smallest airspace type for tower-controlled airports , traffic primarily consists of general aviation aircraft . Often these airports handle cargo , business jets , charter service , maintenance or assembly facilities , etc. as well as private aircraft and flight schools . They also host firefighting operations , airshows , or anything else that needs facilities but would interfere with normal traffic if put at a larger airport . Although Class D airports are small , some are very busy ; others handle only a few flights an hour . Approach control services are only provided if the airport is near Class B or C airspace . Class E : This is the lowest level of " controlled airspace . " " Controlled " does n't mean you have to talk to ATC , but that ATC services are available ( within the capabilities of radar and radio equipment ) . This is general-purpose airspace . Aircraft flying under visual flight rules can fly more-or-less whatever they want ( weather permitting ) , and instrument flight rules traffic operate under positive control by ATC . There are regulations in this airspace , but they are n't onerous , and they 're designed to accommodate the wide variety of aircraft and activities that are found here . Some small airports have Class E airspace surrounding them at the ground . Although Class E is a single class of airspace , there are tighter regulations above 10,000 feet , where there are no speed restrictions ( other than the prohibition on supersonic flight over land ) , compared to at lower altitudes where speeds are limited to 250 knots . Class F : See <URL> Class G : This is found near the ground everywhere except controlled airspace around airports , and occasionally at higher altitudes in remote areas ( Alaska or the Rockies , usually ) , but never above 14,500 feet . Most untowered airports have Class G airspace surrounding them . This is " uncontrolled " airspace , so there is no ATC service available at all . Radio and radar work better the higher you go , so at low altitudes you just ca n't expect good results . Class G serves as a notice that ATC services are unavailable , typically due to a lack of radar coverage . In remote areas , the same problems occur at higher altitudes ( radar wo n't see you if you go behind a mountain , and sometimes you 're just too far ) so Class G is found there as well . Most of the time , the only reason anybody goes into Class G airspace is because they 're taking off or landing at an uncontrolled airport , or transiting certain areas that lack radar coverage . Other : There are many kinds of special-use airspace , all of which serve as keep-out signs of varying levels from " please be considerate " up to " will shoot on sight . " In the US , these do n't really interact with airspace classification . * Technically , airspace above 60,000 feet is Class E , but nobody goes up there except scientific and spy/military flights .
Sure you can ! There 's nothing wrong with shooting practice approaches if you 're not instrument rated ( in the US , at least ) as long as you do n't actually accept an IFR clearance . You would probably be better off asking approach control for practice approaches rather than tower , if you have approach available to you .
When aviation literature mentions " the standard traffic pattern " , it 's usually a left-hand counterclockwise pattern ; regardless of wind direction , the runway will always be to your left side and you make left turns to follow the pattern through crosswind , downwind and base legs . This is the default pattern direction when there are no overriding signals . However , this is only the default , and airports are free to change the procedure as needed to comply with local terrain or development . An airfield near a neighborhood to its east , for instance , may require that traffic circle around the west side of the airport ; therefore this airfield 's 17/35 runway will require a left-hand pattern when using runway 35 , but a right-hand pattern when using runway 17 . When an airfield establishes a non-default traffic pattern , they must provide this information to pilots in a readily-visible manner . The standard recommended ( though not required ) set of runway and pattern indicators is known as the segmented circle , so called because its most visible identifying feature from a distance is a 75-foot circle of dashed lines : <URL> In the center of the circle as pictured is the runway direction indicator aka the tetrahedron ; this will indicate which strip of asphalt to use and which direction to take off and land on it ( the narrow end points in the direction that planes should take off and land ) . Off to one side is the windsock , which is the only piece of equipment that is required at any airfield ; it indicates approximate wind speed and direction . FAA guidelines for the sock say it should reliably turn to the wind direction at 3 knots , begin to inflate at 5 knots and be fully extended at 15 . The windsock can replace the tetrahedron in the center of the circle ; in that configuration you would simply approach the airfield using the runway closest to the direction in which the tip of the windsock is pointing ( if winds are calm and/or the airfield has multiple runways , the tetrahedron is preferable ) . On the ground just outside the segmented circle are L shapes ; these are the pattern indicators , and point in the direction of the base leg when approaching the runway from that end ( so if you 're following the pattern , the end of the L should be pointing at you before your turn to final ) . So , the circle in the above picture tells aviators several critical things without any human ( or computer ) having to relay the information vocally : The approach direction is from the upper right to the lower left of this picture . The wind is roughly in line with the runway , so no crosswind landing procedure is required . Winds are very strong ( the windsock is fully extended which indicates wind speeds in excess of 15 knots ) so ground speed will be much lower than IAS at takeoff and landing . Most relevant to your question , airfield traffic should be on a right-hand pattern at this time ; if the winds and thus the runway in use were opposite , traffic would use a left-hand approach .
end question
start question
How does a jet 's throttle actually work ?
I 'd suggest that you review the topic of <URL> , first , and then review how a <URL> works as it does n't sound like you 're very familiar with engine components ; I 've never heard of a ' pressure chamber ' or ' fire output controller ' . Modern jet aircraft technically do n't use throttles ; rather they are equipped with thrust levers which are connected to a Fuel Control Unit ( FCU ) . This can come in the form of a mechanical computer in the case of earlier engines or a digital electronic computer called a Fully Authority Digital Engine Controller ( FADEC ) , similar to the schematic in <URL> for the F100 fighter engine installation on the F-16 airplane . Early jet aircraft did use a throttle - literally a cockpit lever connected to a throttleable valve to precisely meter fuel into the combustion chamber ( s ) of the engine . This could be problematic to operate in flight as the fuel rate has to be changed as altitude - and consequently combustor inlet conditions - changes , making the engine vulnerable to flameouts from excessively rich fuel flow and compressor stalls from abrupt throttle changes . FCUs were developed , specific to each engine to offer simplified control .
As far as I read in various documents about A320 and remember them correctly : There are three systems handling different parts of the primary flight control : ELAC ( elevator &amp; aileron computer ) controls pitch with elevators + trim and roll with ailerons . SEC ( spoiler &amp; elevator computer ) roll with spoilers and if ELACs fail , pitch with elevators + trim . FAC ( flight augmentation computer ) implements yaw damper . It 's command is added to the rudder command . In A320 rudder pedals have direct mechanical ( hydraulic ) link . The ELAC and FAC are composed of two identical units each , the SEC of three identical units ( but only two of the units are used as backup for ELAC ) . Each unit is composed of two dissimilar computer boards . One used i386 CPU , the other m86k CPU and each has independently developed software ( to minimize risk of the same software bug in both ) . One of the boards in each pair calculates the output and the other one verifies it . If the verification fails , that unit declares fault and disconnects . This is the primary way of detecting faults . I found no reference to comparing outputs of the identical units . Except for spoiler control there are only two output and the check board is more reliable way of detecting faults anyway . If the FAC fails , the aircraft wo n't maintain coordinated flight well and will tend to dutch roll , but pilots can compensate it with rudder input . If the SEC fails , the ELAC can handle control alone . Just spoilers wo n't be available . If the ELAC fails , the SEC can take over too . Turning with spoilers may cause some more drag , but not a big problem . If both ELAC and SEC fail , the pitch trim wheels have direct mechanical ( hydraulic ) link and roll can be controlled by rudder by taking advantage of the yaw stability . I do n't think it was ever needed in practice . Note , that is for A320 family ; which controls are available in case of failure of all flight computers is different in each Airbus type . As for data input , there are three ADIRUs ( air data and inertial reference unit ) and each flight computer takes input from all three and compares them . It needs two matching ( similar within some limit ) values to consider it trustworthy . If either more than one unit fails or no two agree , the flight computers degrade to alternate law or direct law . In alternate law , the system stops providing alpha protection ( stall ) , overspeed protection and , depending on what failed , other flight envelope protection ( there are two kinds , with different protections lost ) . In direct law it reverts to directly mapping the stick position to control surface position similar to mechanical controls . But most faults only result in alternate law except if all inertial references were lost ( that would be very difficult to handle as it would mean unreliable attitude indicators too , but I do n't think that ever happened either ; the inertial systems are very reliable ) . Alternate or direct law can also be entered if some control surface ( or it 's actuator ) fails and somewhere in the computer failure sequence , but I do n't remember the exact condition ( FACs calculate the limits , so if FACs fail , it will certainly degrade ) .
There are two sorts of " autopilots " , and it is important to make a distinction between the two . One is for the behaviour of the aircraft around its Centre of Gravity ( CoG ) , the other one is for defining the path of the CoG . The Inner Loop autopilot : behaviour around CoG , or the aircraft attitude control . This autopilot should not be called autopilot since its characteristics are actually shielded from the pilot : it does its job without showing what it is doing . It only moves the control surfaces ( elevator , ailerons ) or helicopter swash plate , and not the flying controls ( stick , wheel ) . To the pilot , the system is invisible and just results in a stable platform , in the case of the A320 and B777 a platform with envelope protection that does not allow for the aeroplane to enter a situation that would be dangerous . In helicopters this system is referred to as Stability Augmentation System ( SAS ) . The Outer Loop autopilot : defining the path of the CoG , which is ultimately what pilots are paid for :) . They are in control of the flight path and administer this control by deflecting the flying controls ( stick , pedals ) . The pilot can delegate this control to a feedback system that provides inputs to the same flying controls , via an actuator with a slip clutch . With an old fashioned mechanical linkage , the actuator moves the whole circuit from stick to surfaces ( or swash plate in a helicopter ) ; the pilot can override this input by applying a force greater than the override force of the slip clutch . So normally , by design , the Outer Loop autopilot shows the pilots what it is doing by moving the flight path input devices for them , in a way that is transparent and can be intuitively overridden by applying a high force . It is this bit where the A320 has a different philosophy : the input stick never moves other than by the hand of the pilot . This main distinguishing feature between the two types of autopilot does not exist in an A320 . It does in a B777 , which also has an inner loop autopilot plus envelope protection , and an outer loop autopilot which actually does move the column/yoke . So the B777 is functionally identical to the A320 in every meaningful way , plus retains the feature of moving flying controls . It has no mechanical linkage , and it uses two separate sets of actuators for this function : one set for the surfaces , and one for the flying controls . This is the situation on both Airbus > A320 and Boeing > 777 , when all systems are functioning . These aircraft are all dynamically stable : aerodynamics take care of bringing back the aircraft attitude to a neutral position . The F16 for instance is aerodynamically unstable in order to provide high manoeuvrability : it always wants to pitch and roll already , and the flight control computers provide constant rapid inputs to elevators and ailerons to maintain attitude by active control . This is not the case with passenger aircraft , which do not need to be as manoeuvrable as a fighter jet and just need to bring the passengers home safely . Therefore , both on the Airbuses &amp; Boeings , the aircraft can fly without the Inner Loop autopilots as well , without any problems . The aircraft just lose their envelope protection and now it is possible to command them into potentially dangerous situations such as fully developed stalls . In both types , it is always possible to disconnect the outer loop autopilot . For the inner loop ones : The B737 does not have one . In the A320 , it is not possible to disconnect the inner loop autopilots if all is functioning correctly , except by pulling circuit breakers for resetting the ELACs as <URL> indicates ; In the B777 there is a guarded switch that allows disconnection of the envelope protection as @Cpt Reynolds pointed out . In the latter two types , the system disconnects features by itself if failures are detected , to allow control in degraded mode . Both manufacturers have implemented a direct mode as the lowest mode , where surface deflection is a direct function of stick deflection . There is however no direct mechanical cable connection to the surfaces , even the direct mode is still an electrical input , so technically still Fly By Wire . <URL> Above picture is from , and shows the top level comparison of the implementation of the flight control loops . The redundancy features are different , functionality is much the same : both implementations prevent excessive AoA that brings the aircraft into a stall , and excessive bank angle . So although the functionality of modern Airbuses and Boeings is very similar , we do often see the myth that Airbus ranks the automated systems higher than the pilot . There is a difference in user interface implementation , in that Airbus has sticks that are not coupled with each other , and have no means to be driven other than by hand . At the time of implementation , this was a new feature that pilots were not accustomed to , as was the envelope protection system . New features can be poorly understood by inexperie
Your understanding is partly right . Usually HSI indicators are associated with a slaving transmitter that includes the flux gate ( the magnetic sensor ) , but also other elements such the directional gyro unit and a slaving control . So a typical system will usually include the below components ( there are different designs , so check the characteristics of the equipment in your aircraft ) : The Horizontal Situation Indicator ( HSI ) is the panel mounted cockpit indicator that provides a comprehensive display including usually at least heading , course , and glide scope . The heading indicator of the HSI is a remote indicating compass that gets its information from a remote slaving transmitter . The magnetic slaving transmitter includes the flux gate that is the magnetic sensor itself , and some electronics to send the heading information to the directional gyro and HSI . This transmitter and its associated flux gate is usually located in a wingtip to minimize as much as possible magnetic interference . a directional gyro unit that is usually remote mounted . It is using its internal gyroscope to keep and provide a stable heading reference during turns . This gyro unit is driven/slaved to the slaving transmitter . The slaving control is panel mounted and allows to selected either " slaved gyro " or " free gyro " mode . Usually , the system is in " slaved gyro " mode and will be slaved automatically . In " free gyro " mode , a slaving meter indicator displays the difference between indicator display and earth 's magnetic field , and it is possible to align manually the switch using clockwise or counterclockwise buttons . The manual of the Bendix-King KCS 55A provides a good introduction to HSI design and operation : <URL>
The CVR and FDR have impact switches to stop recording when they experience high acceleration . In incidents and accidents that do n't involve high enough acceleration , the plane remains intact enough for the boxes to be immediately found and switched off manually . In more serious crashes , the boxes stop recording because of the physical destruction of everything but the memory units ( only the memory units are built to survive crashes ) .
Drag ( and lift ) increases with density . Density decreased and so did drag . So at the same power , you can fly faster . Now I do n't know whether reduction of power of a normally aspirated spark-ignition reciprocating engine at constant throttle setting would be higher or lower than the reduction of drag . But the question says power setting .
According to <URL> In aviation , propeller synchronization is a mechanism that automatically synchronizes all propellers of a multi-engine , propeller-driven aircraft so that they rotate at the same speed . As for why its used the article states Propeller synchronization serves mainly to increase the comfort of crew and passengers , since its primary purpose is to reduce the " beats " generated by propellers that are turning at slightly different speeds . As for what happens if you do n't use it , according to the article Synchronization is not normally necessary for proper operation of the aircraft .
The directional gyro ( DG ) does not know about heading . Its gyroscope will hold its position ( e.g. the heading you set from the magnetic compass ) in space . The plane is turning " around it " , but DG is holding its position , so you can read the heading from the scale fixed to the airplane while the gyroscope holds its position in space . Only friction and other forces ( acceleration forced upon the aircraft ) force the gyroscope to wander from its position . E.g. the gyro shows a magnetic heading if set using a magnetic compass and it shows a true heading if set using a GPS ( or some map feature like a road with a heading visible on a map ) .
It is called " inboard aileron " or " high-speed aileron " and is actually a flaperon . It will deflect with the flaps but not extend backwards . At high speed , the outboard ailerons are locked and all roll control is achieved by deflecting the inboard ailerons ( and spoilers , if needed ) . This helps to reduce wing torsion and twist . Background : Since the trailing edge 's sweep angle has a break at the wing station of the engine , and since in Boeing aircraft the flaps extend perpendicularly to the hinge line , there must be a gap between inboard and outboard flaps , otherwise they would collide during extension . This gap is best placed in the station of the engine blast , and is filled with a simple hinged flap . Note that Airbus aircraft have rear-sliding flaps , which stay at a constant span location and can be adjacent to each other even at the wing station of the sweep change . Boeing 767 from below . Picture by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) The picture is of a Boeing 767 , but shows the flap arrangement nicely . Note the offset of the forward and rear part of the Küchemann bodies which house the flap tracks .
<URL> starting at about 1:20 in . <URL> . This is a <URL> as well . It really seems to depend on mode but its summarized here nicely , Climbing into the front seats of the Osprey definitely does not produce the most graceful entrance : it requires some contorting around the armrest , center console and overhead panel . The cockpit is dominated by four night-vision-goggle-compatible , six-inch-square multi-function displays that allow access to flight , navigation and system information . Mechanical flight controls consist of a center control stick , thrust control lever ( TCL ) and rudder pedals . The control stick functions as cyclic control while in conversion and helicopter modes , but steadily fades into a traditional airplane control stick as the nacelles transition to airplane mode . The TCL moves fore and aft just like an airplane throttle , unlike a helicopter collective . It does operate as a collective control , however , and becomes a traditional throttle during the transition . While this may seem counter-intuitive to helicopter pilots , it actually makes a lot of sense , because regardless of the mode of flight , youre always doing the same thing : controlling the thrust vector . Forward on the TCL in helicopter mode is the same as raising the collective in a helicopter , and vice versa . The first couple of hours for helicopter pilots transitioning to the Osprey highlight a bit of collective dyslexia , but very quickly it never becomes a further problem . A spring-loaded , knurled rotary knob on the TCL that lies in contact with the pilots left thumb controls the nacelles . Roll the thumbwheel aft and the nacelles rotate to the vertical , roll it forward and the nacelles continue to the downstops . The controls follow the hands on throttle and stick , or HOTAS , concept , and have all the controls necessary on them to control multiple systems on the airplane .
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
The purpose of squawk code 2000 is to prevent aircraft entering a Secondary Surveillance Radar ( SSR ) area from transmitting a code that is the same as a discrete code assigned by ATC to an individual aircraft . If you are flying in the USA under Visual Flight Rules ( VFR ) , you will be assigned ( implicitly ) code 1200 . Upon entering a SSR area you might get assigned another code , but often you will keep code 1200 if you are not near class C airspace . If you are flying Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) outside a SSR area ( e.g. entry into the US from oceanic airspace ) , you will use code 2000 . Upon radar contact you will then get assigned a discrete code . From <URL> : 2 . EXPANDED OCEANIC CHECKLIST . ... . . g . After Oceanic Entry ( 1 ) Squawk 2000 . Thirty minutes after oceanic en try , crews should Squawk 2000 , if applicable . There may be regional differences such as Squawking 2100 in Bermuda 's airspace or maintaining last assigned Squawk in the West Atlantic Route System ( WATRS ) . Crews transiting Reykjavik 's airspace must maintain last assigned Squawk . Another use of code 2000 is on the airport : before power up you can select code 2000 to avoid code conflicts that could occur when you would maintain your code from a previous flight . It is standard practice in many airlines to select code 2000 after arrival at the gate .
Modern commercial airliners have 2 different wind shear protection system : 1 ) predictive wind shear warning system 2 ) reactive wind shear warning system . These systems work independently . PWS ( predictive wind shear ) works with weather radar . Reactive wind shear works with FAC ( Flight augmentation computer ) Basicly PWS can be switched ON and OFF from the WX-Radar panel and it has some prerequisite for working : Ground speed should be above 30 KTS , WX-Radar should be ON , At least one engine working etc. ( may differ with different types ) . PWS scans 5 NM ahead from 0-2300 ft and 1500 ft below according to phase of the flight . It works like a doppler radar . It scans the movement of air mass in front of you and " predicts " something goes wrong and warns you according to how bad is the situation . Doppler frequency will shift significantly in case of a microburst so PWS will catch this shift and warn pilots with amber or red cautions . Reactive Wind shear system works with on board computers that takes real time data from all sources . This system will be active generally from 50 ft 1300 ft. ( may differ ) Reactive Wind Shear basiclly monitors aircrafts energy level . For Airbus ; FAC is responsible for that . In computing the energy level FACs use different data from different sources : ADIRS - air , ground speed , vertical speed , slope . from other sources - wind gradient , vertical wind etc. . It will be active when the a/c energy level goes below predetermined threshold . It will alter from amber to red if your energy losing trend is faster . You can read this document from airbus includes many general aviation information for more details : <URL> Hope it helps .
TCAS works by sending interrogations to other aircraft 's transponders . The transponder will reply to the interrogation in a similar way it responds to radar . From the time difference between the interrogation and the reply , the distance to the other aircraft is calculated . The reply itself contains the altitude of the other aircraft . The explanation below gives an insight in the basic working of the TCAS algorithm . In reality it is more complex to deal with all kinds of exceptional situations . The distance and the altitude difference with the other aircraft is tracked to identify a trend . From successive distance measurements the closure rate is determined . With the closure rate and the current distance ( slant range ) an approximation is made of the time to the closest point of approach ( CPA ) . This is done by simply dividing the range by the closure rate , the result is called ' range tau ' . The same is done in the vertical plane . Dividing the difference in altitude by the vertical speed difference leads to the vertical tau . If both tau 's are less than certain threshold , a Traffic Alert ( TA ) is raised . When the tau 's are less that another ( lower ) threshold , a Resolution Advisory is given . The TA is a ' heads up ' indication , the RA is an instruction that must be followed by the pilot to reduce the collision risk . The threshold times depend on the altitude , ranging from 20 seconds ( < 1000 ft AGL ) to 48 seconds ( > FL200 ) for TA 's and from 15 seconds ( < 2350 ft ) to 35 seconds ( > FL200 ) for RA 's . Below 1000 ft AGL , RA 's are inhibited . Originally TCAS did only give Traffic Advisories in the form of a " Traffic , traffic " annunciation . There was no avoiding action indicated . With the introduction of TCAS II in the second half of the '80s the Resolution Advisory made its entrance . RA selection In selecting a resolution advisory , there are two basically two steps . The first step is to select a sense , either upward or downward . This is based on a calculation of how much altitude difference can be achieved at the CPA by either starting a climb or descent , assuming the target will maintain its vertical rate . In the calculation the reaction time of the crew and acceleration and climb / descent rate of the aircraft is assumed ( 5 seconds , 0.25 g , 1500 fpm ) . The second step is to select a magnitude . The algorithm is designed to be the least disruptive to the flight path , whilst still achieving a minimum vertical separation . RA coordination When a RA is selected , it is transmitted to the other aircraft . When the other aircraft receives that message , it will only use the opposite sense for its own RA . In the rare case that both aircraft transmit their RA intent at the same time , the aircraft with the higher Mode S address will give in and reverse its RA sense if it is conflicting with the other . Algorithm versions Over the years various improvements are made to TCAS II . The initial TCAS II systems had version 6.0 of the algorithm , later replaced by 6.04 a in the mid 90 's . Further system evaluation lead to the development of version 7.0 , implemented from 1999 . Following a near mid-air collision in Japan in 2001 and a mid-air collision over Uberlingen , Germany further changes were made leading to version 7.1 . Changes that were made include : the wording of the RA 's logic to limit the vertical path deviations logic to prevent nuisance alerts in RVSM airspace and on closely spaced parallel runway operations logic to detect non-compliance to an RA improved RA sense reversal logic TCAS &amp; ATC TCAS RA 's take precedence of ATC instructions . The fact that one of the two aircraft followed ATC instructions , and the other TCAS RA 's contributed to the Uberlingen accident . In case a pilot is getting a TCAS RA he should notify ATC . ========== The FAA has produced an <URL> which provided some interesting reading on the topic .
After some searching , I found a <URL> from November 19th , 2009 , that reads in part : ( SBU ) SUMMARY : Miami and Havana air traffic controllers signed a letter of agreement ( LOA ) on November 12 updating procedures for the coordination of flights between Cuban and U.S. controlled airspace . Both sides stressed the excellent working relationship between the Miami Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) and the Havana Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The U.S. delegation agreed to review information to be provided by the Cuban delegation regarding flights operating under the rules of " due regard " that could pose a safety risk . Both sides also agreed to discuss switching from verbal to electronic flight data sharing , on the margins of a regional aviation meeting in Miami in May 2010 . END SUMMARY Apparently handoff procedures have been a regular occurrence for a long time , and are cooperated on extensively .
The 737 does not have a separate AHRS . Those functions are simply outputs from the two IRS 's . <URL> ( <URL> ) 737 IRS panel . ATT ( attitude ) mode selects the AHRS-only output of the IRS .
For altitude callouts during the landing phase ( 2500 , 1000 , 500 , 400 , ... 100 , 50 , 20 , 10 ) , the computer simply reads the data from the radar altimeter . The radar altimeter uses radio waves to measure the vertical distance between the airplane and any ground / obstacle below . The radio altimeter is mounted on the underside of the fuselage . They are usually accurate up to feet . This is different than the standard altimeter in the cockpit , which measure air pressure . The radio altimeter has no idea where the runway is ; if there is uneven terrain leading to the airport , or if the pilots ' descend profile does not match the glideslope , the readings ( and thus the callouts ) will not reflect the height above runway elevation . Note that the airlines can customize the altitude callouts . Different manufacturers also uses slightly different callout patterns . The second type of audio alerts are messages from a <URL> ( TAWS ) . These systems uses radio altimeter , and may combine information from other sources , such as GPS and a global terrain database , to issue alert messages to the pilots if terrain impact is imminent . Since the radio altimeter is only capable of detecting ground directly below , it is unable to provide timely warnings in certain situations , e.g. approaching a steep hill . By integrating with GPS data and a terrain database , the computers can predict the flight path of the aircraft and issue warnings if a risk of collision exists .
There are a few ways rough throttle handling on a propeller airplane can get you into trouble : Gyroscopic yaw and torque : a rotating prop creates yaw 90 degrees to its spin which are offset by control inputs ( mainly rudder ) , throttling up or down requires changes to these control inputs . Quick changes require bigger changes , slower changes give a pilot more time and allows smoother transitions . This is n't that big a consideration on lower-powered aircraft but it is on high-performance aircraft . In the first case that comes to mind an inexperienced P-51 pilot rammed full throttle in on a go-around and it flipped the aircraft on its back . At low airspeed it 's possible there was n't enough control authority to manage the forces even if he had been prepared for them Pitch changes : most aircraft will have a pitch change when the throttle is increased or decreased , again quick changes require coarser changes in controls while slower changes mean smoother and better controlled inputs . Again more applicable to higher performance aircraft Engine and carburetor : The engines in most light propeller-driven airplanes represent the pinnacle of 1950 's technology . Fuel mixture , priming , and throttle control are all completely manual - there are no electronic systems to help smooth things out during throttle changes . Many airplane engine carburetors do not have an accelerator pump to shoot extra fuel to prevent the engine stalling during a quick throttle up . Given that an engine stall when airborne is a life-threatening emergency it 's in your interest to make smooth , controlled changes Although not usually a safety issue wear and tear is also a consideration . Smooth , gentle changes are better for the levers , plungers , and cables in the engine control system . Less wear and tear means better reliability and less costs .
On many early jet airliners water was sprayed it into the engine air intake or compressor where evaporation cooled the air and allowed cooler , denser air to be ingested by the engine . The result was increased thrust , especially needed for operation from hot and high airfields , or a cooler temperature in the hot section of the engine at the same thrust . From <URL> : Water injection was first used over 45 years ago on commercial transport aircraft to increase thrust . Boeing 707-120 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C-6 engines and later , the Boeing 747-100 &amp; 200 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT9D-3AW and -7 AW engines , all used water injection for thrust augmentation . This report discusses various techniques for water injection : ahead of the low pressure compressor . This is the common method for thrust increase in hot and high conditions . ahead of the high pressure turbine . This is used in cold weather , when injection ahead of the low pressure compressor would run the risk of ice accretion . together with fuel into the combustor . This technique is commonly used with stationary gas turbines in order to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions . And <URL> is more specific on the system : Four water-injected Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C -- 6 engines were used on early Boeing 707 -- 120 Stratoliner aircraft to augment takeoff thrust on days above 20 ° F . This system used a belly tank to store demineralized water and an electrically driven boost pump to deliver water to the four engines . At that point , an engine-driven mechanical pump increased the pressure to about 400 psi for injection before the low-pressure compressor ( LPC ) on days as cold as or colder than 40 ° F and for injection into the high-pressure compressor ( HPC ) only on days between 40 and 20 ° F . What would happen if kerosene instead of water was filled into the water tanks was tried out by a <URL> : The aircraft collided with a bridge , shearing off both wings , after a double engine failure occurred during takeoff . The water-injection system to cool the engines during takeoff was inadvertently filled with kerosene instead of water . More recent work on water injection focused on the reduction of nitrogen oxides which form in lean combustion and high temperature . By lowering the temperature level of the combustion process , the <URL> can be greatly reduced .
Here 's how the PAPI lights work : Depending on the angle of the viewer , a different color is seen : Then each light is calibrated to an angle : The good thing about this is that it 's dead simple technology where very few things can go wrong : The lights have to be on and calibrated for the correct angle . The downside is that its usefulness decreases with lower visibility . Some new systems appear to have solar panels as an off grid ( and alternative/backup ) power source which is sensible . Many systems today also have LED lights . If two airplanes with two different altitudes approach , do they see different number of white and red lights ? Or are the lights set for the closer airplane ? The system is independent and passive , in the sense that it never makes contact or note of the aircraft approaching . It lights up all to all aircraft in the beam . Hence , it ' works ' for all aircraft at the same time . Some new systems feature <URL> ( Final Approach Runway Occupancy Signal ) giving an indication that the runway may be occupied by another aircraft by flashing the lights . For a little information on differences between similar systems to PAPI , see <URL> .
end question
start question
Are ' human factor ' specialists consulted during the UX design of cockpit controls and avionics ?
My thesis , which I wrote so long ago that I no longer recall the title , was a complete redesign of the Boeing 747 cockpit from a human factors and usability point of view . My designs , which were submitted to Boeing at the time , likely helped create the foundation for the modern glass fly-by-wire cockpit . At the time , glass cockpits did not exist ( the term refers to the glass in the CRT monitors that were eventually used within the cockpit , later replaced by LCD displays ) . Fly-by-wire , which is the concept of replacing conventional flight controls with an electronic interface , was in its infancy . I remember working tirelessly to create a comprehensive new human interface for pilots that would minimize errors and improve safety . My research was based in the cognitive sciences , which consisted of university coursework in human physiology , neuroanatomy ( rudimentary at the time ) , psychology , statistics , engineering , computer science , mathematics , linguistics , neural networks ( the very first ones ) , and artificial intelligence . It was a rigorous and diverse education . I spent hours and hours watching films of pilots performing a vast array of different procedures . Sometimes they were successful , and sometimes they were not . When they were not , it often resulted in serious consequences . I spent long nights listening to hour after hour of dialog between air traffic controllers and pilots . I studied detailed accident and near-accident reports . I also interviewed pilots and spent a fair amount of time inside commercial cockpits , between flights , gathering essential data . One of the challenges that I vividly recall was reducing complexity for pilots , while keeping the tasks difficult enough so they would stay engaged to their tasks and not fall asleep or become distracted . The most rewarding part of developing my thesis was converting the cockpit from what I called a control-based center to a task-based center . Up until that time , most controls available to pilots were designed to directly impact a flight control surface such as the rudder . There were some rudimentary " intelligent " controls to perform basic horizontal and vertical navigation ( but nothing that integrated the two ! ) . I designed a new system that was based on high level tasks that the pilot would need to perform . No longer were ailerons , elevators , flaps , and thrust the focus . Instead , I changed the focus of the cockpit to center on essential tasks such as taking off , landing , route planning , communications , and traffic and weather avoidance . During this work , I learned that I had to seamlessly integrate my human factors engineering and user experience design skills . In my opinion , and from my personal experience , they always need to be . Whenever I fly , I ask to take a look at the cockpit after we land . It 's a joy to see the evolution of my designs . Whether I was the originator of these designs or one of many human factors engineers who came up with them at the same time , I will never know . But similarities of the current designs to what I proposed in my thesis many years ago gives me a little insight into a possible answer to that question .
My thesis , which I wrote so long ago that I no longer recall the title , was a complete redesign of the Boeing 747 cockpit from a human factors and usability point of view . My designs , which were submitted to Boeing at the time , likely helped create the foundation for the modern glass fly-by-wire cockpit . At the time , glass cockpits did not exist ( the term refers to the glass in the CRT monitors that were eventually used within the cockpit , later replaced by LCD displays ) . Fly-by-wire , which is the concept of replacing conventional flight controls with an electronic interface , was in its infancy . I remember working tirelessly to create a comprehensive new human interface for pilots that would minimize errors and improve safety . My research was based in the cognitive sciences , which consisted of university coursework in human physiology , neuroanatomy ( rudimentary at the time ) , psychology , statistics , engineering , computer science , mathematics , linguistics , neural networks ( the very first ones ) , and artificial intelligence . It was a rigorous and diverse education . I spent hours and hours watching films of pilots performing a vast array of different procedures . Sometimes they were successful , and sometimes they were not . When they were not , it often resulted in serious consequences . I spent long nights listening to hour after hour of dialog between air traffic controllers and pilots . I studied detailed accident and near-accident reports . I also interviewed pilots and spent a fair amount of time inside commercial cockpits , between flights , gathering essential data . One of the challenges that I vividly recall was reducing complexity for pilots , while keeping the tasks difficult enough so they would stay engaged to their tasks and not fall asleep or become distracted . The most rewarding part of developing my thesis was converting the cockpit from what I called a control-based center to a task-based center . Up until that time , most controls available to pilots were designed to directly impact a flight control surface such as the rudder . There were some rudimentary " intelligent " controls to perform basic horizontal and vertical navigation ( but nothing that integrated the two ! ) . I designed a new system that was based on high level tasks that the pilot would need to perform . No longer were ailerons , elevators , flaps , and thrust the focus . Instead , I changed the focus of the cockpit to center on essential tasks such as taking off , landing , route planning , communications , and traffic and weather avoidance . During this work , I learned that I had to seamlessly integrate my human factors engineering and user experience design skills . In my opinion , and from my personal experience , they always need to be . Whenever I fly , I ask to take a look at the cockpit after we land . It 's a joy to see the evolution of my designs . Whether I was the originator of these designs or one of many human factors engineers who came up with them at the same time , I will never know . But similarities of the current designs to what I proposed in my thesis many years ago gives me a little insight into a possible answer to that question .
end question
start question
How much does go-around cost ?
We can look at <URL> from airlines to estimate these figures . In addition to fuel , there will also the extra duty time for the crew , some delay in schedule , and extra flight time on the aircraft . The delay in schedule can be difficult to estimate , but other costs of operation can be estimated . A short flight would take 1.5 hours , and the go around might take 0.2 hours . Based on the financial data , an MD-83 might cost about 6000 dollars/hour to operate . This includes all direct operating expenses . This means that the regular flight would cost about 9000 dollars to operate , and a go around would cost about 1200 dollars . Since a go around uses a lot of fuel , the figure may be a bit higher . The figures for a Boeing 747-400 show about 15000 dollars/hour to operate , and a Boeing 777-200 about 12000 dollars/hour to operate . That would make an 8 hour flight 120,000 dollars and 96,000 dollars respectively , with go arounds costing 3000 and 2400 dollars respectively . Obviously , for longer flights , the go around will cost less proportionally than for a shorter flight . As DeltaLima mentioned , the cost of <URL> ( which includes <URL> ) can be substantially higher . Loss of or even just damage to an aircraft will cost much more time and money . To see if these numbers make sense , <URL> mentions that an empty MD-83 would need 1000 kg of fuel for a go around and new approach . It also mentions that a ferry flight from Paris Orly to Olbia , Italy , would normally require 6800 kg including reserves . If reserves are about 1600 kg , this would mean that the flight would use 5200 kg of fuel . If jet fuel costs <URL> , this comes out to 985.72 dollars of fuel for a go around , and 5125.73 dollars of fuel for a regular flight . This figure seems reasonable along with the figures above .
There are three different schools of thought there , and one can be selected based on the capabilities and characteristics of the tailwheel aircraft you are flying . Fly the tail off the ground : After achieving full power during the start of the takeoff roll , apply forward stick pressure until the tail lifts off and the aircraft assumes a level attitude on the main gear , then hold that pitch attitude for the rest of the takeoff roll . This technique can be done in most underpowered taildraggers and is useful for short field takeoffs and landings as it minimizes parasite drag and flat plate area during the takeoff roll . It will require a healthy bootful of right rudder to counter the change in P-Factor as well as gyroscopic precession from the propeller . Let the tail fly off the ground : After applying full power with full aft stick deflection , neutralize pitch input to the stick and continue the takeoff roll . As speed builds , the tail will lift off the ground naturally . This is the recommended technique when flying high performance tailwheel planes like WWII fighters , etc. . where good rudder authority is needed to counter P-Factor changes and precession . 3-point takeoff : Apply full power and hold full aft stick as well as additional right rudder to counter for P-Factor . As speed builds in the takeoff roll , gradually ease up on stick pressure but hold just enough to keep the tailwheel on the runway . As the airplane lifts off the runway care must be taken to quickly adjust elevator pressure to hold a gradual climb and prevent rapid pitch up and stall . I once flew an MX2 with an oversized prop offering only about two inches of ground clearance resting on the mains in level attitude . We were taught to only do 3-point takeoffs and landings and specifically warned not to attempt anything else to prevent a propstrike .
The requirements for Flight Data Recorders ( FDRs ) on airliners like the A320 is in 14 CFR 121 . For a good summary of the requirements for flight recorders in various types of aircraft , see the <URL> . Depending on the certification date of the aircraft ( 14 CFR 121.343 ) , the FDR must record between 6 and 17 parameters . Since engine parameters are included , this could be up to 23 different parameters on 4-engine aircraft . Newer Digital FDRs ( DFDRs ) must record at least 88 items ( 14 CFR 121.344 ) . Some of these parameters are conditional , and some require multiple parameters , so the total will probably be more than 88 parameters . The NTSB report on the <URL> notes that the FDR recorded 178 parameters during the flight . According to <URL> , tape-based DFDRs can record at 64 12-bit data words per second . Newer DFDRs using solid state recording can store up to 256 12-bit data words per second . This 256 words per second is also specified in the information on <URL> . It says it can record > 100 hours at 64 words/second , which translates to about 35 MB total . The parameters are per DO-160C standard , which you have to pay to access . Accident reports will generally include readouts from relevant parameters , to give an idea of the items that are recorded . There is a table <URL> showing some parameters , the measurement range , and recording intervals . The interval is anywhere from 0.125 seconds to 4 seconds depending on the parameter . Aircraft may also have a <URL> ( QAR ) , which records many parameters ( over 2000 ) . However , aircraft are not required to have one and the QAR is not required to survive an accident . Airlines use them for data to improve operations , and they can also be used in less severe crashes for analysis .
The fuel consumption or fuel burn rate is dependent on the aircraft type , size , engine configuration , cruise altitude , temperature , thrust setting and other factors . In general : The larger the aircraft , the less economic do short flights become due to weight/size and fuel burn on takeoff/climb . Here are some values I found for the CRJ2 , the source may not be entire citable : Approximate total burn pounds / hour Taxi : 700 ( Both engines and APU ) Takeoff : 6000-7000 ( depending on temperature , elevation , reduced/full thrust , etc ) Climb : 6000-3500 ( reducing as as altitude increases ) Cruise : 2500-3000 ( depending on altitude/weight/etc ... subtract 500 for long range , add 500 for high speed ) Holding : 1800-2400 ( depending on altitude/speed ) Normal descent : 1500 Idle descent : 600 Approach : 2000 ( fully configured ) ( Source : <URL> - Author : Flyf15 ) You can also read the following related questions to understand how altitude affects fuel efficiency : <URL> <URL>
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
HOURS/CYCLES The single most important factor in the value of an aircraft ( generally speaking ) is hours . This will almost single handedly define what the plane is worth . When a plane is built all the parts on it have a life time . This is traced through a series of logs for the plane . When a part is at or approaching its life time it must either be rebuilt or replaced . If you are looking at a plane that has high hours/cycles chances are parts on it will need replacing soon . This is costly to the new buyer and will often reflect in a lower sale price . Here in the US commercial aircraft require more frequent inspections than general aviation planes . These inspections are not cheap and a plane that needs inspection when compared to a plane that just came out of inspection will be reflected in the price as well . There are of course other factors like wear and tear , corrosion ( which can be very costly to fix ) and interior condition but generally speaking when large planes change hands they are at least partially repainted with the new companies livery and the interiors are often redone . For some airlines it may be advantageous to buy second hand planes if they are already flying that make/model . Lets say smallTimeAir flies almost exclusively 727-200 's this means they have a nice store of parts for that plane and a crew well experienced in fixing them . It will be easier for them to add another 727-200 to the fleet than say an A320 for which they will need new mechanics and parts they do n't have . This makes some used airframes desirable to some people .
Feathering is not engine starting , and also is not used in turbine ( excluding turboprop ) aircraft . In a piston or turbo prop aircraft , in the event of an engine failure , to decrease drag so you can either glide farther or have better performance on the remaining engine ( s ) , you can set the prop pitch lever so instead of facing at a right angle to drive air backwards and produce thrust , the propeller will instead turn edge-first into the airstream , reducing drag . Not all propeller airplanes have this capability , but it 's an added safety feature . In motorgliders ( both light sport aircraft and primary ) without retracting blades , the feathering position turns the prop so that the edge faces into the airstream and also locks the propeller so it no longer turns .
How long , and how wide of a turn depends entirely on three things : What is the true airspeed . What is the bank angle of the turn ? Is level flight maintained during the turn . Since it 's easiest to calculate , and presumably what you intended , we 'll assume # 3 is true ( level flight ) . However , if you really needed to get turned around fast , turning in a descent will give you a tight turn without the extra g-forces . Cruise Speed for a 747 depends on altitude , generation , company guidelines , etc , but we 'll go with Mach 0.85 for this example , which seems to be in the ballpark . If we say it 's cruising at 35,000 feet in standard atmospheric conditions , that comes out to 490 knots TAS . Next , pick a bank angle . A reasonable bank angle for that airplane with passengers on board is 25 ° , and you could probably get away with 30 ° . Anything beyond that will cause passengers to complain . Of course , if it 's an emergency you might consider something higher . Just remember , the higher the bank angle , the stronger the g-forces which will be felt by the people inside , and the aircraft itself , which has structural limitations . The G-force can be calculated using : $ $ gforce = \ frac { 1 } { \ cos ( bank ) } $ $ For an example , let 's select 25 ° bank since that 's the most realistic . Radius Calculate the radius of the turn using this formula , slightly modified <URL> to give nmi instead of feet : $ $ Radius \ of \ turn \ in \ nautical \ miles = \ frac { velocity ^ 2 } { 68579 \ times \ tan ( bank ) } $ $ Which gives us : $ $ 7.51 nmi = \ frac { 490 ^ 2 } { 68579 \ times \ tan ( 25 ° ) } $ $ So the turn itself would be about 15 nautical miles wide ( ≈ 91,000 feet ) not accounting for wind . Distance Traveled Using basic geometry , the distance traveled for a 180 ° turn is $ d = r \ pi $ ( half the circumference of a circle ) , so : $ $ 23.59 = 7.51 \ pi $ $ Giving us 23.59 nautical miles traveled . Duration $ $ time \ in \ minutes = \ frac { distance \ times 60 } { TAS } $ $ Therefore , at 490 knots ( nautical miles per hour ) and 25 ° bank , it would take about 2 minutes , 53 seconds to complete the turn . $ $ 2.89 = \ frac { 23.59 \ times 60 } { 490 } $ $ You could go through and calculate the results for any speed and bank angle you want . This is true regardless of the type of airplane in question . Turning in a Descent Your edited question asks how much altitude would be lost if it were not a level turn . There is also no single answer to this question because it depends entirely on how you perform the maneuver . One reason you may have to descend in a turn is because the increased lift results un increased induced drag , and the aircraft engines may not have enough power to compensate , resulting in the decreased airspeed , and possibly a stall . In this case , the equations for calculating the turn radius are exactly the same as in level flight . The amount of altitude lost will depend on the descent rate required in order maintain airspeed , which will vary depending on the engine power available , the weight of the aircraft , and the drag curve at the given speed and AoA . <URL> gives an example of what this might look like for a 747 in a 1.5 g turn . Another version of a turning descent would be an accelerated descent . The advantage in this case it that it would allow turns to be made without additional g-force . The disadvantage is that you 'll be accelerating downwards instead of descending at a constant rate . This can get out of hand very quickly and would only be good for very short duration turns . To illustrate this disastrous option , let 's look at what would happen in a 1g turn at the same 25 ° and 490 knots TAS . Since the math is more complicated , it 'll be easier to talk about this portion in metric units . Here 's a conversion table : First , in order to maintain a constant 1g , the lift vector is simply rotated in the turn ( instead of rotated and increased in order to maintain altitude ) . Therefore , the magnitude of our lift vector will be equal to the acceleration due to gravity near the Earth 's surface . We 'll round that to 9.8 m/s/s . Inward Acceleration Our acceleration towards the center of the turn $ a_c $ ( the portion of our lift vector pointed inwards instead of up ) can be determined using the following equation where $ \ theta $ is the bank angle : $ $ \ sin ( \ theta ) = \ frac { a_c } { g } $ $ Solving for $ a_c $ : $ $ a_c = g \ sin ( \ theta ) $ $ Therefore $ $ 4.142 = 9.8 \ sin ( 25 ° ) $ $ Radius So 4.142 meters per second per second is how fast , at 25 ° of bank , and 1g , we 'll be accelerating towards the center of the turn . With that , information , along with our known velocity , we can calculate the radius of the turn using this equation where $ v $ is our velocity in meters per second , and $ R$ is the radius in meters : $ $ R = \ frac { v ^ 2 } { a_c } $ $ Plug in our numbers : $ $ 15341 = \ frac { ( 490 \ times 0.514444 ) ^ 2 } { 4.142 } $ $ This comes out to a radius of 15341 meters ( 8.28 nautical miles ) . Distance Traveled Now that we have our radius , we can calculate how long it will take us to turn 180 ° . This part is the same equation as before .
I do not know the exact numbers for oleo stroke and so on , but this is how you would calculate this . A 747-400 weighs 400 tons on take-off and 296 tons on landing , maximum . See <URL> for the source of those figures . Next is the landing speed , this is approx . 160 knots = 82 m/s . Now let 's assume the pilot has misjudged the height and does not flare , but slams the aircraft with the 3 ° approach angle into the runway . It is supposed to survive this , so let 's just continue . This gives you a vertical speed of 4.3 m/s , and at 296 tons this is an energy of 2,750 kWs = 0.76 kWh , which needs to be dissipated by the landing gear . Now I make the assumption that the gear stroke is 0.5 m ( those who know please put it in the comments , and I will correct the calculation ) . We have 0.5 m to decelerate a mass of 296 tons from 4.3 m/s to zero . If we assume a constant deceleration , the force will also be constant and the sink speed will decrease linearly . The average sink speed during this process is 2.15 m/s , so it will take 0.23 s and an acceleration of 18.5 m/s $ ^ 2 $ . Force is mass times acceleration , so the force is 5,473 kN or 1.23 million pounds . This is just the inertial force to stop the descent . While taxiing to the take-off position , the aircraft will press with 400 tons = 878,000 lbs on the runway , since the wings do not yet produce any lift . This shows that even a hard landing does not stress the landing gear so much - after all , the acceleration is just shy of 2 g , acting on a much lighter plane . In reality , the landing gear of a 747 is staggered , so the inner main gears will touch the ground first . Also , I expect that the force will not be constant along the whole gear stroke . This will change the details of this approximation , but the general magnitude should not be different . <URL> goes into more details on how to calculate the damage an airplane will do to a given runway or apron . Now for the braking stresses . The landing field length of a 747-400 is 2175 m , and let 's just assume that the pilot forgot to use thrust reversers , aerodynamic drag was switched off that day , and all the braking power had to be supplied by the 16 main wheels . Let 's also assume that the pilot uses 1200 m of that field length for braking ( I 'm just making this up to get to an upper limit of what force will act on the tarmac ) . Now we need to decelerate from 82 m/s to zero within 1200 m. Linear deceleration means an average speed of 41 m/s , so the whole process takes 29.27 s. Dividing speed by time yields a deceleration of 2.8 m/s $ ^ 2 $ . To bring the aircraft to a full stop , we have an energy of 995,152 kWs = 276.4 kWh to dissipate along a distance of 1200 m. Using again Newton 's second law , we see that this requires a horizontal force of 829 kN = 186,322 lbs , which translates into 51,8 kN = 11,645 lbs per wheel . This is certainly more than what happens in reality , but to put it into proportion : The static load per main wheel at the maximum landing mass is 174 kN = 39,150 lbs ( assuming that 4 % of the mass is carried by the nose gear ) . This extreme ( horizontal ) braking force is still less than 30 % of the ( vertical ) static load , which is well below of the maximum braking coefficient of an aircraft wheel on a dry runway . EDIT : CGCampell correctly remarked that emergency procedures at take-off weight will produce the biggest braking loads . Now I will calculate the highest possible braking loads , and for this I need this plot of a polynominal for the braking coefficient , which is the ratio between vertical and horizontal forces before the tire skids . I do not know the source ; I collected it somewhere in the past and never found a reason to doubt its validity . Shortly before the aircraft comes to a stop , the highest friction coefficient is reached , and then little lift is produced by the wings , so the vertical tire loads are those of the static case . At 96 % of 400 tons acting on 16 wheels , this is 24 tons = 235,344 N = 52,907 lbs of downward force per wheel . Since the friction coefficient is 1 at low speed , the same load is transferred horizontally from each wheel to the ground , almost five times more than what I approximated for the landing above . Clearly , going to the limits produces much higher loads . Formulas used in the calculation : How to calculate the deceleration of a mass $ m $ from a speed $ v_0 $ to $ v_1 $ Energy has no absolute value , we just add or subtract energy . The amount of energy change $ ∆ E$ between the aircraft at a speed $ v_0 $ and at a speed $ v_1 $ is : $ $ ∆ E = \ frac { m } { 2 } \ cdot ( v_0 ^ 2 - v_1 ^ 2 ) $ $ The unit of energy is the Joule , which equals the Watt-second or the Newton-meter . Thus 1 J = 1 Ws = 1 Nm = 1 $ \ frac { \ text { kg } \ cdot \ text { m } ^ 2 } { \ text { s } ^ 2 } $ . Metric units are neat , right ? In physics , energy $ E$ equals work $ W$ , and work is performed when a force $ F$ travels along a distance $ s $ . As does the braking force , acting on the moving aircraft : $ $ E = W = F _ { brake } \ cdot s $ $ How do we g
Yes . Every instrument approach procedure has a specified missed approach segment . The missed approach will be described in terms of route to fly ( heading ) , altitude , speed and crossing restrictions , terrain clearance and any other required information . Before approaching an airport , the pilots will conduct a briefing that includes going through the missed approach procedure , so that they are 100 % sure what to do if they need to perform a missed approach . From an air traffic control point of view , we will make sure that there is no other traffic in the missed approach area when an aircraft is conducting an approach . That way there will be no loss of separation if an aircraft goes around .
One particular example I can recall is Extra 330 . Modification with electric engine have been built ( Extra 330LE ) keeping the rest of the aircraft quite similar to the original petrol-engine version as far as I know . According to <URL> electric version was measured to produce 14.5 dB less noise compared to the combustion engine aircraft . Maybe you can try too look for other combustion engine aircraft converted to electric without making other significant modifications ( I am not aware of any other than this Extra 330LE though ) as a source for data you are looking for .
To start you off there 's these two : <URL> - Certification of Airports and <URL> - Notice of Construction , Alteration , Activation and Deactivation of Airports . Part 139.311 covers all the lighting related requirements . Part 157 is there just so you can inform the FAA about the changes you 're going to make in the airport . for specifics about LED lights , I would suggest looking for Advisory Circulars with LED lighting for airports in particular .
So there are potentially two ways to interpret your question . First is a pilot who holds an FAA commercial pilot certification , second is a societal occupation label generally referring to a pilot performing as a crewmember of a 14CFR Part 121 scheduled air carrier airway , or colloquially , an airline pilot . In both cases the idea that any pilot need to be exceptionally capable at math is a fallacy . I suspect it 's a holdover from the 40 's and 50 's when all flight planning calculations needed to be done by hand . Now all of that is automated and even allowed during the FAA written tests . Additionally , needing strong math skills is often claimed when an individual is actually thinking of a test pilot or aeronautical engineer , which both require very strong algebra and calculus skills . That said , there are some areas in the higher level written exams that rewrite you know how to calculate weight and balance , but these all relay on standardized some equations that are n't exceptionally difficult for even a novice . These written exams include the Airline Transport Pilot ( which will be required for the second interpretation ) , Dispatcher Certificate , and Flight Engineer .
The cost index is a number used in the Flight Management System ( FMS ) to optimize the aircraft 's speed . It gives the ratio between the unit cost of time and the unit cost of fuel . With this number , and knowledge about the aircraft 's performance , it is possible to calculate the optimal speed for the aircraft , which results in the lowest total cost . Speeds slower than the optimal speed will result in less fuel burn , but also in more flying time . The cost of the extra flying time outweighs the fuel savings at speeds below the optimum speed . Speeds faster than the optimal speed will result in more fuel burn , but also in less flying time . The saving of less flight time do not outweigh the fuel burn at speeds above the optimum speed . A low cost index means that the cost of time is low or that fuel is expensive . It will result in a low speed . High cost index means high cost of time ( e.g. passengers about to miss their flight connection ) or low fuel price ( rare these days ) . At the minimum cost index ( 0 ) only fuel counts . This will result in the aircraft flying at Maximum Range Cruise . At the maximum cost index only time counts . This will result in the aircraft flying at Maximum Cruise Speed ( Vmo / Mmo with a buffer ) Airlines generally have a standard cost index they use for planning and adjust them on a flight by flight basis . <URL> from Airbus explains the cost index in more detail .
Volume Orders Discounts These result in significant discounts to the airline . While discounts are commonplace in the industry , Ryanair ordered 737-800 for an estimated 40-50 million dollars as compared to the list price of around 90 million dollars . With an order of that size Boeing could not risk losing it to another manufacturer , and will be satisfied with less profit per aircraft . <URL> Fleet strategy : Some airlines sell their old aircraft after only a few years while their value is still high but the maintenance costs start to increase . Increased maintenance is bad when you try to squeeze out as many flights as possible and you have small profit margins on every flight . You can find some of Ryanair 's old aircraft by the company code ( AS ) with other operators by searching 737-8AS . Another <URL> is that the customers perception of Low-Cost airlines is generally negatively biased and having new aircraft counters this effectively . Old Aircraft Some operators ( such as charter operators ) will not have the same sensitivity to a slightly higher fuel consumption on their aircraft . They may not use their aircraft the same number of hours , so having an increasingly expensive jet sitting on the ground is not cost-efficient . The aircraft ordered by IndiGo are all new fuel efficient A320NEO . Some of these ideas are emphasized in your link . Of its 530 orders from IndiGo , Airbus has so far delivered 99 aircraft . The airline currently has a fleet of 83 planes and has phased out 16 planes that were over six year old or among the first in its fleet . A bit of Ryanair strategy is outlined in <URL> .
The key issue that determines the aircraft speed is economics . Airlines fly the aircraft that make most sense economically - which is rarely , if ever , the fastest speed possible ( more speed equals more drag usually , which reduces fuel economy ) . More fuel efficient the aircraft is , better the range/passenger capacity , making airlines more money . The top speed of the ( subsonic ) aircraft has changed only a little in the past few decades - most developments have been geared up towards improving fuel efficiency , not increasing speed ( speed alone does n't make economic sense to airlines ; look at what happened to Concorde ) . There is another issue here - most of the passenger aircraft fly in high subsonic ( transonic ) regime . As a result , the airliners are flown below the <URL> , beyond which the drag increases rapidly . This limits the aircraft speed . As a related point , due to the high altitudes at which the aircraft are flown is that there is <URL> between the stall speed ( lowest speed possible ) and critical mach number ( highest speed possible beyond which flow separates due to local supersonic flow ) . This limits the practical options available to the pilot .
It 's hard to get an exact figure , there are fuel prices , the time to taxi , gate charges , medical charges for the removal of the person on the plane , staff costs , and more . I ca n't guess at most , however from a fuel cost perspective I know for the 747-400 at LHR many airlines use a figure of 1000kg in planning for APU and taxi to takeoff . An A380 would be more , I 'd ball park a figure of 1380kg for the airbus based on the MTOW difference ( a rough approximation ) . 1380kg is about 1750 liters , at about .50 GBP per liter that 's about 875GBP , or about 1150USD at today 's conversions . So the fuel alone would cost somewhere around a grand , I 'd imagine you could comfortably double that by the time all is said and done . As for passing the cost on to the customer I 've never heard of that being done for a genuine illness , or even a suspected illness . I do n't know if they could if they wanted to , however I can not imagine them trying it , the reputational fallout would be enormous .
Depends on what you mean . Get to high altitude ? Yes you can . It is really inefficient to get there , but some aircraft already do it . Achieve a stable orbit and be able to maintain control ? No , at those altitudes you do not have enough oxigen to keep your engines running , you have to bring your own ( and thus use a rocket ) For the sake of clarity , some definitions : reactive engine : includes both rockets and jets . The engine pushes some mass in one direction and by reaction it achieves thrust in the opposite one . jet ( engine ) : is used to refer to air breating engines . The aircraft carries the fuel , but not the oxidiser , that is taken from the sorrounding atmosphere . rocket ( engine ) : is used to refer to non breathing engines . The ( space ) craft carries both the fuel and the oxidiser . No atmosphere is needed . space : above 100km of altitude . <URL> : staying in space : Images from <URL>
The Part 141 flight school that I used to work at quoted around \ $ 7,000 for their instrument package , which was 30 hours of dual flight , 20 hours of ground instruction , and 10 hours of PC-ATD simulator time . They were a Cessna Pilot Center using the old CPC King Schools course . It was a good course , and while numbers varied , I did have a couple of students who squeaked by right on the Part 141 course minimums . Other pilots added 5 to 10 hours more flight training into the mix . In general , my gut says that it should cost an average pilot who has 100 + hours and flies semi-regularly between \ $ 7,000 and \ $ 9,000 ; probably closer to the low end than the high end , especially if the student does a bunch of self study at home on a flight simulator , possibly using VATSim as a simulated ATC . As far as what to look for , I would recommend a Part 141 course just because the FAA is involved in the course standards , and instructor standardization is ( supposed to be ) part of the 141 criteria . It might be worth asking what their first-attempt pass rate is on checkrides , but that 's not a meaningful long-term measure of the course 's quality , just a short-term one . You should find a course whose syllabus makes sense , includes simulator training and scenario-based flights , and make sure you work with an instructor you like . They ca n't be your best friend - they very well might need to give you some serious critique or cut a lesson short because things are n't going well - but you should be happy to spend a couple of hours a foot away from them in the cockpit . I 'm trying to track down the average hours to attain an instrument rating in the US ; if I find it , I 'll update my answer .
No , it is almost impossible . The only runway ( 06/24 ) Lukla Airport is just 1500 feet long . This <URL> lists some interesting facts : The topography of the place makes any go-around impossible . At the south , the runway is the end of an angled drop of about 2000 feet . This cliff is fenced off as a precautionary measure . At the northern end of the runway there is a huge mountain terrain . It leaves no room for error . A pilot mentions the same <URL> : " Because there is no way to go around again , we have to calculate many things like air speed , tail wind , fog . If you do n't do the proper calculation or proper exercise , then it ( an accident ) happens . " Planes land on runway 06 ( Heading 060 or ENE ) and takeoff from runway 24 ( Heading 240 or WSW ) . This picture shows the cliff on North : There have been several <URL> at this airport .
end question
start question
What are the differences between the CH-46 and the CH-47 ?
The difference is in mission , and the difference is non trivial . The twin rotor configuration goes back to the 1960 's . ( <URL> . The CH-47 replaced it in Viet Nam in 1965 ) . Chinook became the Army 's heavy tactical lift during Vietnam . Like the C-130 , that particular design is timeless . The CH-47F is the current configuration . It carries about twice as much as a CH-46 could . It is also one of the faster helicopters there is ( it can fly almost 200kts ) though the CH-53E has flown faster . The CH-46 was an adaptation of the same idea , but made smaller and marinized : it had to meet a host of Marine Corps and Navy requirements to fit on amphibious ships and supply ships . Space and fit are non-trivial limitations when writing requirements for naval aircraft . ( As an aside , the US military no longer operates the CH-46 . It appears that the last CH-46 squadron in the USMC , <URL> , let go of its last Phrogs in 2015 <URL> <URL> ) Not having to take off some power for a tail rotor is an advantage . The CH-46 mission for the Marine Corps was vertical assault ( it carried more than a Huey and predecessors like <URL> ) ; for the Navy , it was the <URL> mission . The payload and maneuvering benefits from the lack of a tail rotor made the VERTREP mission a perfect fit for the CH-46 . One of the challenges in ship borne operations is the ability to run simultaneously resupply by air and ship-to-ship ( <URL> ) while not being operationally constrained ( for the ship drivers ) " getting into the wind . " That limitation tail rotor helicopters do n't handle as well as the CH-46 . ( That point was a core argument against CH-60S as replacement for CH-46 ; but that 's another matter ) . I 've flown VERTREP in helicopters with tail rotors ; the CH-46 was less constrained than we were . What about Marine and Navy Heavy Lift missions ? The Marine Heavy lift ( analogue to the CH-47 for the Army and Air Force CSAR ) is fulfilled with the CH-53 , and has been for over 40 years . The CH-53 can fold its tail to fit on a ship . You ca n't fold a Chinook . The Navy VOD ( heavy lift ) was handled by CH-53 's for 40 years . <URL> ( Flexible , that 's helicopters ! ) Smart Requirement Writing led to smart choices " The Military " would have made a significant mistake " to just make one type " since back in the 60s and 70s , making mission specific aircraft was the way to go . Quite frankly , it makes for cheaper aircraft to build it for one core mission . ( See the A-10 as a fine example of that ) . Note : An early failure in " one size fits all " was the F-111 . A current " one size fits all " example of cost going through the roof is F-35 . At the time the CH-46 and CH-47 were procured , the military was smart : apply the KISS principle to get aircraft that fit mission requirements . The Army and Navy mission requirements were not identical . ( So how do I know all that ? 25 years Navy pilot ( helicopters , ASW warfare specialty , did other stuff like Vertrep ... ) , significant experience in multi-service operations , and a few years having to work in an acquisition job . )
There is more information available from NATS on the website on <URL> [ TBS ] and from a very descriptive <URL> PDF . While Heathrow ( EGLL ) is the first airport where this is being researched and tested , there are als other works , such as a research paper called <URL> PDF which applies TBS at Charles Des Gaulles ( LFPG ) . The main focus of using TBS is to increase airport capacity during strong headwind operations , which significantly decrease groundspeed and therefore traffic flow . None of the papers I have found speak of hazards related to decreasing the lateral distance between flights . The general idea seems to be that the minimal safety gain accompanying lower groundspeeds due to strong headwinds ( lower GS means lower closure rate to objects / stationary traffic on ground ) can be partially sacrificed and offset by TBS to maintain airport capacity or reduce the impact of the strong headwinds on airport capacity . This sacrifice becomes available since stronger headwinds also aid the dissipation of wake vortex . The below table is based on own calculations , assuming constant approach speeds . It should show you how the time to cover a set distance increases with decreasing ground speeds , which means that e.g. it takes longer to cover 3nm to reach the runway threshold . Reducing the lateral separation ( the values chosen are deliberately a bit extreme , as none of the papers mentioned a formula to calculate TBS distances ) reduces time to cover the distance , but covering 2.5 nm at 130 GS is becoming quite close to 3nm at 150 GS .
On a pilot-vs-FBW system perspective , as mentioned in the comments to the question , the most notable difference is the authority priority : Boeing trusts more the pilots : they can supersede the Fly-by-wire automatic commands by exerting enough force on the controls Airbus trusts more the FBW system : if the system is fully functional ( " Normal law " ) it will always have priority over the pilots to protect the aircraft and keep it in the envelope , but they still have room for " non-standard " maneuvers , e.g. commanding bank angles between 33 ° and 60 ° . The autopilot can be activated and de-activated at will by the pilots , and it sits on top of the FBW envelope protection . One of the most famous examples where this comparison emerges ( and the subsequent debate about which approach is better ) is the <URL> accident . I wo n't go into detail , there is the <URL> that will provide much more information that I can remember , but suffice to say that this 747 was recovered from a quite unusual attitude As mentioned in the wiki article , the report states that the passengers were subject up to 5 gs during the maneuver and the stress on the horizontal tail surface has been so great that as a result it was damaged : The usual argumentation goes along the lines that , would this had been an Airbus , the pilots would not have been able to save the aircraft . See for example <URL> at page 184 of the pdf , section 6.2.3 " Pilot Authority at the Boundary " : It is likely that if the aircraft had prevented the crew from initiating control commands that would lead to aircraft damage , the aircraft ( and passengers ) would have been lost . The problem with such a comparison ? It focuses on the recovery after the unusual attitude was achieved and totally forgets about the sequence of events that lead to it or , to the very least , assumes that an Airbus would have responded in the same way to the preceding events ( then why make a comparison at all ? ) An honest comparison would take into account this and acknowledge that an Airbus in Normal Law would not enter a spiral dive in the first place , even with an engine out , as bank protection/attitude-hold would prevent it .
This is how I explain it , hopefully it helps more than hinders ! Heading : This is where my nose points - and seeing as my nose is attached to my head , this is where my head ( and thus my machine ) is pointing relative to North . Course : This is my INTENDED path of travel that I have calculated taking into consideration winds , variation and declination . Track : This is my ACTUAL path traveled over ground - just like a set of tracks I would leave behind in the snow or sand , relative to North Bearing : This is the angle between the location of an object , machine or destination and either : - my heading . This is called ' Relative Bearing ' . - or magnetic north ( direction toward the magnetic north pole ) . This is called ' Magnetic Bearing ' . So from the picture , if I take off from Springfield enroute to Shelbyville . My course ( the intended path ) is due East , or 090 degrees . I notice my winds are Southerly ( from 183 degrees / to 003 degrees ) , so I make my heading 095 degrees to compensate for wind drift ( or 5 degrees crab into the wind ) . If my calculations are bang on , my track should be the same as my course , however I misjudged the winds , finding out my resulting track over the ground is 081 degrees - I must correct ( by increasing ) my heading to get back on course . Now with some airports , the navaids ( NDB or VOR ) are not directly at the airfield but some distance away , so if I wanted to either fly directly to the NDB or figure out my position in space during enroute nav checks , I would take the bearing to the NDB/VOR either relative to my heading or relative to magnetic north to find its position . Hope this helps .
Yes , short range airliners are designed for up to 90.000 cycles whereas long range airliners can be designed for 40.000 cycles or less . And it is not only the pressurized cabin that needs to be designed for more load cycles , also the landing gear has a lot more work to do . This should become clear when you calculate how many miles/kilometers an airplane will taxi in its life and compare that to the design life of a regular car . Your average short range airliner will easily taxi 5 times more miles in its life than your average car will drive .
There are indeed only two ' official ' classifications of aviation incidents , which are defined in <URL> . Accident . An occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all such persons have disembarked , in which : a ) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of being in the aircraft , or direct contact with any part of the aircraft , including parts which have become detached from the aircraft , or direct exposure to jet blast , except when the injuries are from natural causes , self inflicted or inflicted by other persons , or when the injuries are to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew : or b ) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which : adversely affects the structural strength , performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft , and would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component , except for engine failure or damage . when the damage is limited to the engine , its cowlings or accessories : or for damage limited to propellers , wing tips , antennas , tires , brakes , fairings , small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin : or c ) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible . Note I. -- For statistical uniformity only , an injury resulting in death within thirty days of the date of the accident is classified as a fatal injury by ICAO . Note 2 . -- An aircraft is considered to be missing when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located . And then there is Incident . An occurrence , other than an accident , associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation . They do also define ' serious incident ' , but simply as an incident which was nearly an accident ; which is still an ' incident ' by the definition above .
CAMO is the organisation and CAME is a " book " that need to write . This " book " contain procedure to explain how you will work ( how you communicate with aircraft customers , how you manage your docs , etc. . . ) .
There are no major differences between a turboprop used on an airplane and a turboshaft used on an helicopter . All power is collected by the turbine shaft which rotates the blades through a gearbox . An example of a gas turbine used in helicopter , airplane , train , and even snowplow is the well-known <URL> . It has different versions . The two versions shown below are the PT6A for a propeller ( top ) , and the PT6B for an helicopter ( bottom , with a large gearbox ) . Each sub-family has variant for different powers . ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) On the two images , from right to left : The accessory box powered by the compressor section , the air intake recognizable by its filter , the compressor ( not visible ) , the combustion chamber ( yellow color on the bottom image ) with its circle of igniters , the turbine ( not visible ) , the exhaust ( the big hole , best visible on the bottom image ) , the power gearbox with different output shafts . There are different types for aero-engines , including turbojet , turbofan , turboprop and turboshaft ( I exclude the ramjet which is not used in civilian aviation ) . All types are based on a <URL> , but the way the turbine participates to the motion is different . ( <URL> ) While airplanes use all types , helicopters can not use the jet action/reaction principle ( tip jet excluded for simplification ) . The gas turbine can be the same for turboshaft and turboprop engines , but will be fitted with appropriate elements : The rotational speed of the shaft will be adjusted to accommodate the rotor or the propeller . This is done using a gear reduction system . An helicopter rotor turns slower than an airplane propeller . Air intake and exhaust are adapted . It rather common to have the air intake on the opposite side of the power output shaft . For a pulling propeller , this means the intake will be aft , and air must be collected forward and ducted to the engine intake . The power output shaft is usually used to bear the propeller tension caused by the lift , while on an helicopter , the rotor tension is borne by the frame . The accessory box is usually powered by the compressor side of the engine . A turboshaft do n't provide the bleed air extraction , there is no cabin pressurization required . ( <URL> ) Gas turbines used in both cases are frequently <URL> , where the compressor section and the turbine ( power ) section rotate independently of each other . This allows to produce electricity or hydraulic power on the ground without turning the blades .
Turbofan engines do n't push all air through the combustion chamber . Instead part of it runs along the sides . <URL> This bypass region is where the ( cold ) air stream is redirected from to create the reverse thrust .
No , they are not interchangeable and indeed , have well defined meanings . A fix is an arbitrary point in space used to establish current position calculated by referring to external references . You take a fix to determine where you are now . A fix might be permanent , for example a compulsory reporting point , or it might be determined by the pilot in advance in order to fly a non-airways route ( e.g. when flying VFR ) and then checked along the way using dead reckoning and reference to external systems or features to check that the plan is being flown accurately . It might also be requested by ATC , e.g. " report when overhead the railroad yard " or calculated to establish where you are , e.g. taking a fix from an astrolabe on a night oceanic crossing . <URL> <URL> . A waypoint is fixed point in 2D space ( latitude and longitude ) used to define points along a route . They are named , and are referenced in a plan . You fly from one waypoint to the next , along a route . A waypoint is where you are flying to . It is normally positioned where there is a change of course or altitude . These are the navigation positions given the <URL> you ask about . <URL> <URL> . <URL> An intersection is where two airways cross . Here , the Victor airways 15 and 76 cross at the intersection . In this particular case , the chart symbol further shows that the V76 airway does not use the intersection , in which case the chart will include a note of the intersection usage . <URL> <URL> . Now sorry about this , but having said they are not interchangeable , it 's not that simple . A waypoint is also a fix ( a fix is any 2D point ) . But you do not call a waypoint a fix . A fix is a 2D point which is not a waypoint , but is used for navigation . A fix might be also be a lat and long defining the beginning of an arrival or departure procedure where you leave or enter an airway . An intersection is also a fix , but it only exists to define where two airways cross ( or where any other 2 lines cross , e.g. the 170 degree and 046 degree radial from two NDB beacons ) so is called an intersection , not a fix . In that sense , they are all fixes but the name has meaning .
One thing to note is that ' pure ' air dominance fighter or ground attack aircraft is not being developed anymore . Most of the combat aircraft developed recently/under development are multirole ( or ' omnirole ' ) aircraft . In case of air dominance ( or air superiority ) fighters , which have the task of eliminating enemy air defense system especially fighters and securing aerial control for operation of friendly forces without harassment , the following are important design objectives : High thrust to weight ratio , as it helps in maneuvers . Stealth , as the enemy ca n't shoot what he/she ca n't see . High maneuverability , for close combat situations and evasion . High weapons load , as it enables engagement of a large number of enemy aircraft at once . A good range , as it is better to engage enemy aircraft in their area rather than in friendly territory . A powerful radar to track and engage enemy aircraft , as it enables them to shoot first . Communication links to transfer data between the aircraft and between the AEWACS aircraft , as most of the aircraft today operate in an integrated battlefield . Speed is also a very important parameter . In case of ground support ( or attack ) aircraft , whose primary task is the destruction of enemy logistics and/or support for ground troops under fire , the designers look for similar yet a bit different set of characteristics . Ruggedness , as the aircraft should be able take some amount of punishment and return home . High endurance and Time on Target , as the ground troops may require support for an extended period of time , with corresponding weapons load . Communication links between aircraft and ground troops for obvious reasons . Precision targeting systems for situations where friendlies are in close contact with the enemy troops . Ability to operate from forward operating bases is desirable . Most of the present generation aircraft carry out their ground support duties using precision weaponry rather than any fundamental design decisions . Though there are still trade-offs , as in any aircraft design . The weapon load of stealth aircraft is lesser their non-stealthy counterparts as external weapons carriage increases the radar signature of the aircraft . For ground attack aircraft , a high subsonic speed is more than enough unlike the supersonic air dominance fighters . Low altitude maneuverability is important for ground attack aircraft for quick ingress and egress from the combat area . One aspect of aircraft design is that combat aircraft optimized for high altitude operations can face higher stresses when operating in lower altitudes ( i.e. near ground ) . For example , when USAF switched B-52s from high altitude bombing role to low altitude penetration tactics , it caused increased stress in the airframe .
The primary advance in the transistor era is the <URL> . It 's essentially a fly-by-wire throttle , incorporating rate limiters to key engine inputs such as fuel flow rate , and performing automated monitoring tasks to reduce flight crew workload . Prior to the FADEC system , sufficiently complex jet aircraft required a crew member , the flight engineer , whose primary task was monitoring and maintaining engine performance in flight . Additionally , jets without a FADEC require particular attention paid by the pilot ( s ) to the rate at which the throttle is adjusted ; you ca n't just firewall it for a takeoff as that will cause a compressor stall .
The DC-4 was a totally new design in all respects , as can be seen from the planform diagrams ( wiki ) <URL> The DC-4 was larger , and structurally totally different : Straight tapered wing ( no sweepback ) Straight tubular fuselage , not the aerodynamic teardrop shape Round fuselage cross-section . The original DC-4E was going to have a pressurised cabin . The later DC-4A did not implement this but retained the circular cross section necessary for pressurisation . MTOW = 33,100 kg for the DC-4 , 11,430 kg for the DC-3 Four engines of 1,081 kW each , while DC-3 had 2 engines of 890 kW each . Tricycle landing gear instead of a tail dragger , as @Gerry points out . All in all a larger aircraft , designed from scratch , implementing more modern features of a later age .
Generally speaking1 , when an aircraft is allowed/ready to leave ( deliberately not using the word depart ) the gate , things proceed in the following fashion : The pilots are in contact with <URL> , and when the aircraft is ready to leave , Ground approves that they can leave the gate . The pilots asks <URL> that the <URL> can start . Pilots are in contact with a designated personal from groundcrew ( see picture below ) . Pushback tractor/tug will start moving the aircraft away from gates , onto the place where aircraft will be ready to move on its own . During the pushback , aircraft 's engines are started2 . Pilots inform tug driver/designated person from groundcrew which direction the aircraft needs to be facing at the conclusion of pushback . When aircraft is ready to roll towards its assigned taxi instructions , <URL> signals the pilots that aircraft is in the requested position and pushback tug is about to be detached . After the tug is disconnected , the designated groundcrew personal communicating with pilots , informs the pilots and disconnects his headset . The marshaller signals ( after moving away from the aircraft ) the pilots that the aircraft is ready to proceed on its taxi route . Pilots confirm and acknowledge this last signal , and aircraft starts to taxi . I have <URL> for the above mentioned activities . Although , I have always seen that a person from groundcrew attaches a headset near the nose gear of the aircraft ( picture below ) to communicate with the pilot . <URL> <URL> Please see the cable connecting the headset with the aircraft , near the nose gear . You can not follow the entire cable though . 1 : This is what a typical scenario looks like . Although , there can be great variations . 2 : Engines are not started near the gate as there is groundcrew servicing the airplane and to avoid damages to close-by structures .
A heading ( in the general case of moving " forward " ) is the direction your nose is pointed in . This may not be your course ( <URL> ) . Headings are measured from onboard a traveling vehicle or object ( e.g. from the cockpit of an aircraft or the bridge of a ship at sea ) . An azimuth is a bearing , more precisely a compass bearing from a specific point of observation like a radar station . ( The " North " used as a reference may be either magnetic or true depending on the system you 're working with , but for purposes of this discussion it does n't matter . ) Often the point of observation is fixed ( ground radar , a control tower , an artillery spotter , etc. ) , though it need not be as long as the observation can be mapped to a compass bearing somehow . Bonus Answer : The " O'Clock " positions are an informal type of relative bearing <URL> : The 360-degree circle is broken up into 12 chunks ( 30 degrees each ) for easier scanning , with " 12 O'Clock " being directly in front of you and " 6 O'Clock " directly behind . An important caveat to be aware of is that when ATC provides a " clock bearing " for traffic it 's relative to the aircraft 's course ( 12 O'Clock is aligned with the aircraft 's track over the ground as shown on the radar ) . Depending on wind there may be considerable variation between your course ( direction of travel ) and your heading ( direction the nose is pointing ) , so the called traffic may appear in a different location when you look out your window .
Fail-safe does not necessarily imply that the system will continue operating after a fail . If the system stops operating but does not create a dangerous situation , it is still fail-safe . A non-essential service on board an aircraft such as the entertainment system can be fail-safe if it just stops operating because a fuse blows . If the fuse does not blow and as a result the system catches fire after a short-circuit , it is not fail-safe . Fail-soft does indeed mean that after a failure , essential services are still functional , although in aviation context this is mostly refereed to as graceful degradation . A fly-by-wire system such as on board the A320 is fail soft : If all functions , the system flies with normal law active , providing protections against getting into unsafe regions of the flight envelope . Upon certain detected failures , the system switches to alternate law , still with some protections in place . Upon further failures , the system switches to direct law : no more flight envelope protections , just surface deflection proportional to stick deflection . So this system is fail-soft and fail safe . The electronic flight control system as a whole is fail safe : if all flight computers are lost , the system has hydro-mechanical connections from pedals to the rudder and from the trim wheel to the the stabiliser . Hydraulic systems require special attention regarding fail-safety , since a stuck servo valve can command a constant velocity : the actuator runs into one of its stops and has a hard-over failure . An elevator that is stuck in full up deflection is not safe , so the pitch control system needs to make provisions for fail-safety if this fault occurs . For instance by allowing left and right elevators to normally work in unison , but uncoupling them after a detection of a hard-over failure . The working elevator can then be commanded to full opposite position , making the elevator system fail-safe but not fail-soft : pitch command must now be done with the stabiliser trim . One elevator stuck in the mid position would be fail-safe , and control with the other elevator provides graceful degradation . The flight control system on board an F-16 is fail-operational : upon a system failure , full system function continues , no degradation . It is quadruple redundant , meaning there are four systems on board that carry out the same function , while only one is required . The four systems function independently , and a monitoring system determines if all four outputs are within a pre-determined range . If three are and one is not , this system is switched off and the other three continue . This can happen once more , but if there are only two systems operational the voting system would not know which of the two has failed .
Assuming we are speaking of axial compressors/turbines Compressor blades are generally thin and straight , and resemble a tiny rectangular wing with low camber thickness . Image <URL> Turbine blades are more curved , often in almost " U " shapes ( like the ones seen <URL> ) . In particularly large and recent engines , where efficiency is critical , turbine blades will often be full of tiny holes : Image <URL> To distinguish between high pressure and low pressure stages ( compressor or turbine does not matter ) , the length of the blade and its torsion ( i.e. how much the aerodynamic profile turns around the axis of the blade going from the root to the tip ) are key : shorter and more twisted blades will be high pressure ones , longer and straighter blades will be low pressure . Note that two blades of the same length could come one from a high pressure stage and the other from a low pressure one of a different engine : " short " and " long " are relative to the engine size . On the other hand , radial compressors and radial turbines are more difficult to distinguish .
This is quite difficult to answer as some modern supersonic fighters do n't have just ailerons , but ' elevons ' , flaperons , tailerons and most of the time combine the movement of several control surfaces by computer to generate a desired effect . Large civilian aircraft tend to have more than one pair . A relatively smaller set closer to the wing tips for slower speeds and a general large aileron closer to the wing root . I would suggest you get a top-view of these aircraft . When you find our the length of the aircraft or wingspan you could derive it yourself through approximation .
Aeroscraft is their brand name . It does not mean anything generally . The general terms are : " Aircraft " ( but not " aerocraft " ) means any machine capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere . " <URL> " is a lighter-then-air aircraft . That is it has large shell filled with gas with lower density than air and uses buoyant force on that for lift . This includes balloons , hot-air or gas filled , tethered balloons and airships . " <URL> " , or " dirigible " is an aerostat equipped with propulsion that allows it to move on it 's own ( as opposed to balloons that are tethered or carried by wind ) .
It 's hard to see from the angle that your example photos were taken from , but the main reason is that they want the primary flight instruments ( which are on the PFD , or Primary Flight Display ) directly in front of the pilot , no matter which seat they are in . The PFD gives the most critical information which is used to actualy control and fly the aircraft , so is designed to be in the pilot 's direct line of sight . Less critical information is put on the MFD ( Multi Function Display ) . Since the pilots sit close to each side of the cockpit , this usually means that there is n't room to place the MFD on the outside of the PFD . Even if there was room , the extra display is used partially for redundancy , so they do n't want to put it further away from the other pilot . Since the PFD is directly in front of each pilot , it does n't take any effort to switch between seats because of that aspect . This photo ( it 's night , so a little dark but I think that you can see what I 'm referring to ) was taken from my head level while sitting in the right seat , which should make it pretty clear : <URL> own photo
end question
start question
How does IDENT work ?
( Note : This answer is tailored to the U.S. / FAA , because that is what I 'm familiar with . All the citations and references are FAA materials . If anyone has any tips on possible international differences , please let me know and I 'll edit them in . That said , I believe the descriptions I give are fairly consistent across the world , even if the FAA reg citations do n't directly apply . ) In what situations does ATC ask for ident , and is it ever required by procedure ? Generally , " ident " is used to help a controller identify an aircraft 's secondary radar ( transponder ) return . By asking the pilot to " squawk ident , " the controller can ensure that the aircraft he/she is talking to matches the radar target he thinks is that aircraft . It can also be used for communication , to allow a pilot to respond if their radio transmitter has failed . Specifically : It is a method to allow a controller to identify an aircraft on radar , per section 5-3-3 of <URL> : When using only Mode 3/A radar beacon to identify a target , use one of the following methods : a. Request the aircraft to activate the " IDENT " feature of the transponder and then observe the identification display . For lost communication , per section 10-4-4 of <URL> : Take the following actions , as appropriate , if two-way radio communications are lost with an aircraft : c. Attempt to re-establish communication by having the aircraft use its transponder or make turns to acknowledge clearances and answer questions . Request any of the following in using the transponder : 1 . Request the aircraft to reply Mode 3/A " IDENT . " This last scenario is common when experiencing radio failures . If ATC suspects that you might be able to hear them but not to talk back , they might say something like " Cessna 12345 , if you can hear me , squawk ident . " If you reply by pressing the IDENT button , they can then issue you further instructions and ask you to acknowledge those instructions by pressing IDENT again . What does the transponder actually do in this mode ? In normal operation , every time the transponder receives an interrogation from a ground station , it replies with a data block containing certain pieces of information . <URL> : The encoded pressure altitude ( for Mode C transponders ) A 12-bit identification code ( this is the 4-digit code you select in the cockpit ) A single extra bit for the " ident " flag When you push the IDENT button in the cockpit , the transponder sets that extra " ident " bit in its reply data . Anytime the transponder is interrogated while IDENT is active ( for a set duration of time after you press the button in the cockpit ) , its reply data block will have the IDENT bit set . ATC computer systems notice this and cause the IDENT to be shown on the controller 's radar display . What does the controller see on their screen ? It depends on the type of radar system in use . Generally the radar target will either blink , its symbol will change ( or " blossom " ) , or an indication such as " ID " will blink in the aircraft 's data block ( where the callsign is shown ) . The AIM has some schematic pictures that show what an IDENT looks like on an ARTS-III scope ( an older system still in use at some TRACONs ) . See <URL> and <URL> . I will try to find some pictures of other radar systems such as those used at ARTCCs and newer TRACONs . Does it depend at all on either the code or the mode the transponder is currently set for ? The code does n't matter . The IDENT flag is an extra bit in the transponder 's reply data that 's independent of the 12 bits used for the code . Obviously the IDENT will only be observed if the transponder is operating ( not OFF or in a STANDBY mode ) . But the IDENT works in any mode used by normal civilian transponders ( Modes A , C or S ) .
Yes , your last sentence gets it about right . Just one detail : Air does not move " forward " to flow out again once it has entered the intake - which air goes where is all settled ahead of the intake . Never forget , though , that this effect is small and spillage leaves a net drag component . When compared to a sharp-lipped intake as used on supersonic planes , subsonic intakes are more forgiving for a mismatch between capture area ( area of the stream tube which goes into the engine ) and the actual intake lip area . Below I tried to fake the flow around an intake lip using Inkscape and added blue and red shading to indicate pressure . The core flow gets compressed ahead of the intake ( blue shade , diverging streamlines ) while the outer flow is pushed to the outside of the intake lip by the increasing pressure and now has to follow the contour of the intake . Like with <URL> , the air is accelerated ( converging flow lines ) and a suction peak forms on the intake lip ( red shading ) . This suction peak sits on the forward-facing part of the intake lip and provides some suction . The sharp intake lip of a surpersonic intake would produce separated flow under the same conditions with a considerable increase in drag . <URL>
Your question : What is the logic behind the delay of the signal and how is the echo signal later bound with the signal sent ? Short answer A PESA is an array of individual antennas . Each antenna radiates the same signal , except the phase . The phase adjustment for each antenna allows for the non-moving array to behave like if it could be rotated , i.e. the direction the energy is sent to or receive from can be selected by adjusting the phase for the individual antennas . Varying the signal phase for an individual antenna of the array can be done by delaying the signal for this antenna , which in turn is as easy as making the electrical conductor ( or waves guide ) between the oscillator and the antenna longer . PESA <URL> exactly like another more traditional one with a single rotating antenna . A signal sent by a PESA , after it has been sent , is indistinguishable from a signal sent by a rotating antenna radar . Details The principle of a primary radar is to send a radio signal in a given direction and wait for a possible echo . The direction of the radiation pattern is used in determining the direction ( azimuth and elevation ) of the reflecting object . The antenna must be very directional ( small solid angle of the radiation pattern ) , else the angle determination can not be precise . <URL> Radiation pattern of an antenna with a parabolic reflector ( <URL> ) That means the antenna must be rotated to scan a useful portion of the sky ( or ground ) . To clarify the wording used , an antenna is usually composed of : A radiator which receives the signal to be transmitted ( it also collects the waves in reception ) . The radiator is the interface between electrons and waves and vice-versa . A reflector used to reflect the waves from the radiator ( it also focuses the waves on the radiator in reception ) . Sometimes directors to narrow the radiation pattern of the system . The radiation pattern of an antenna is mostly determined by the shape of the reflector ( e.g. the <URL> ) which only illuminates a given fraction of the space and , due to interferences , also varies the energy based on the direction the energy is sent to or received from . Due to the reflector , a signal from the radiator will usually travels using different paths created by the multiple reflections . Interferences are the result of combining the electromagnetic signals at a given point . For signals having the same frequency , the phase determines if signals are added ( same phase ) or canceled ( opposite phases ) . <URL> Phase determines how signals interfere ( <URL> ) We can apply this phenomenon to the multiple signals created in an antenna composed of a radiator and a cylindrical reflector . <URL> Signals summation on a cylindrical reflector antenna creates a privileged direction of radiation with some secondary ( unwanted ) lobes ( <URL> ) Array of radiators ( electronically scanned array , ESA ) Another way of varying the privileged direction of a radiation pattern is to create interferences on a voluntary basis , so that they create a stronger signal in the desired direction , and a weaker signal elsewhere . The advantage is that this electronic direction change can be much quicker than a mechanical rotation . One way to create interferences is to send the radar signal from an array of small radiators instead of a single big one . <URL> Close-up of the front of the old Cobra Judy radar ( <URL> ) This type of array is quite familiar under the name interferometer in the field of astrophysics : <URL> Siberian Solar Radio Telescope ( SSRT ) interferometer observing the Sun at 5.7 GHz ( <URL> ) If all radiators are fed with the same signal , then interferences will occur the same way on the whole surface and the result will be that the direction perpendicular to the array is privileged ( image on the left side ) . <URL> Electronic beam-deflection ( left : bore sight , right : deflected ( <URL> ) The right side of the image shows what happens if the signal sent to the individual radiators is delayed in a coordinated way : Delay increases from right to left on the array . It must be remembered that delay means phase here . The direction of the signal is now oblique due to the the location of constructive and destructive interferences . The red circles indicates signal with the same phase . See this <URL> too . Delaying an electric signal is quite easy : Just increase the length of the conductor ( see <URL> ) . A length variation between 0 and the wave length ( e.g. 10 cm for a wavelength of 10 cm -- 3 GHz ) allows to sweep the whole range of possible phase values from 0 to 360 ° . Indeed there are other ways to delay a signal without adjusting the length , but they are electrically equivalent . When signals are digitized , it 's really easy to process them , there is less electro-mechanical constraints . By varying the phase on individual radiators we can steer the signal as if the antenna had been rotated , but we can also focus the energy on a target . <URL> ( <URL> ) PESA vs AESA There are two approach
How does yaw relate to pitch ? There are four forces at play on a single engine aircraft that can cause turning tenancies or Yaw . The main reason a single-engine propeller aircraft yaws left at T/O is due to Asymmetrical Thrust ( P-Factor ) . At high angles of attack the right side of the propeller disc creates more thrust than the left side and this causes Yaw to the left . Gyroscopic Precession causes a yaw to the right when an aircraft is suddenly pitched up ( tail is lowered or nose is raised ) and a yaw to the left when an aircraft is suddenly pitched down . ( tail is raised or nose is lowered ) . This force is only apparent while the aircraft 's Pitch is changing , once the pitching action is stopped , the force is gone . ( not present in a steady nose up climb ) Slipstream effect causes a slight yaw to the left , and slight roll to the right . Engine torque causes a roll to the left . Most single engine aircraft today have a clockwise spinning propeller . All these forces would be the opposite if it were a counter-clockwise spinning propeller . A more detailed explanation can be found here : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , you could . The smaller cabin is easier to heat because of its size . If the engine is big enough to carry you to 20,000 ft , it produces plenty of waste heat for cabin heating . When the <URL> to bombers to extend the range of those fighters , the fighter pilots complained bitterly about the freezing temperatures in their cockpits once their engine was switched off . The <URL> had no armament and a shorter fuselage , so the firewall was immediately ahead of the cockpit . The test pilot said flying it felt like having his feet roasted at a fireplace because the engine heat radiated into the cockpit . Piston-engined aircraft allow to mix pre-heated and unheated air for cabin ventilation . The heat is either from a heat exchanger or just from piping the air near the engine . Jets and turbine-powered helicopters use bleed air which has been heated in the compressor as the source of cabin heat . This is different in gliders , because there is no heat source and when flying at high altitude it can be really cold . You can wear thick clothing , but another problem is frosting of the canopy from the inside caused by the moisture in the pilot 's breath . I found this more annoying than the cold temperature when flying in freezing air .
First , these answers insofar as the licenses and airline operations apply to the U.S. system since that is all I am familiar with . You must have a Flight Engineer license to operate as an FE . Just as a pilot 's license has ratings on it , so does an FE license , and you have to have a rating that matches what you 're flying . My FE license has a single rating , TURBOJET POWERED , so I could not sit as an FE in other than a jet aircraft . In the days when 3-man cockpits were the norm , the usual career course at large carriers was to start out as an FE ( second officer ) , progress to being an FO ( first officer ) , and then a captain . In that system , if the FE was incapacitated , it was likely that one if not both of the pilots had actually been an FE . The U.S military continued with FEs well after the 3rd seat came out of civilian aircraft ( I think they still do , but am not sure ) . Military FEs were typically never intended to become pilots . When all new civilian aircraft being manufactured were 2-man cockpits , but lesser airlines were still flying the old 3-man cockpits ( think freight carriers in particular ) , former military FEs became the source for their FEs and were considered professional FEs , in other words they would not be progressing to a pilot seat . A few did , but they were definitely the exception . The two 747 carriers I worked for hired pilots into the FO seat . The FEs they hired had to have A&amp;P licenses as well as an FE license , the reason being that the company wanted them to be able to perform and sign off minor maintenance problems that occurred in remote places ( think Africa especially ) where maintenance was n't locally available . With only a couple of exceptions , every FE I ever flew with was ex-military with an A&amp;P , and they knew the airplane mechanically better than I . In the airline ground schools , especially the initial groundschool , the FE panel and its operation were thoroughly covered in the material presented and in the testing . The oral exam for the aircraft type rating thoroughly covered that FE panel . As I remember my 747 type rating oral was 3 to 4 hours long . Fortunately I got through that and the sim ride on the first try . Not all do . So , in the case of an incapacitated FE in the 10 years I was on the 747 , it was likely that neither pilot had actually operated as an FE . However , he would have studied it in ground school and had demonstrated an understanding in an oral exam . There is , though , nothing like experience and currency . Every once in awhile I would get out to a cold airplane before the FE had arrived and would want to start the APU . This was usually at a remote station without local maintenance . There was , of course , a procedure for doing this , and I had a copy . But even with that check list and doing everything very carefully , I always breathed a sigh of relief when the APU started and there were no problems . If the APU failed to start on the first try , I usually waited for the FE to arrive . I might try a second time if I knew he was going to be awhile , but never a third . The old 747-100/200 had a lot of switches , and interesting things could happen if the APU was started and the switches were not properly set . I always did an outside check to make sure all gear doors were closed and that nobody was around the bottom of the airplane . If a gear door was down , and switches were not set right , when the APU started , the doors would immediately close when the hydraulics were pressurized . Anyone in the way would certain get hurt . Individual pilots on the line varied greatly in their knowledge of the FE panel . FOs were at a disadvantage insofar as watching it be operated . They ca n't see it well . Captains can see it . However , some FEs resented captains looking at it too much , feeling that was their turf . What I often did during cruise , as much to pass the time as learn , was to let the FE be my tutor .
The two configurations of <URL> have different capacity . A350-900 : 138,000 liters / 36,456 US gallons A350-1000 : 156,000 liters / 41,212 US gallons The tanks are shown in this picture : <URL> <URL>
The thrust variation with altitude would be highly engine specific , but the general trend is nicely depicted in the image below : <URL> this for further details .
Basically , dihedral effect is that during banking , the ' lower ' wing will experience a higher angle of attack compared to the ' higher ' wing , and a result , a greater lift . The resulting net force and moment reduces the banking angle , reducing stability . Consider a wing with a dihedral angle $ \ Gamma $ with a forward airspeed of $ u $ . If the sideslip angle is $ \ beta $ , the wind due to sideslip is $ u \ cdot sin \ beta $ . From geometry , the normal velocity induced due to dihedral , $ v _ { n } $ becomes $ u \ cdot sin \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ . <URL> Image from <URL> Note : The notations are different in the figure ; but the principle is the same . For our purposes , we can take the sideslip velocity ( $ u \ cdot sin \ beta $ ) as $ v _ { y } $ . Now , consider two sections from the wing - one each from the ' lower ' and ' higher ' sides . The induced velocity is of the same magnitude in both the sides , while the direction differs , as can be seen from the above figure . <URL> Image from <URL> <URL> Image from <URL> For small angles , $ v _ { y } $ is nearly equal to $ u \ beta $ . The induced angle can be given as , $ \ Delta \ alpha = \ frac { v _ { n } } { u } $ . From the earlier relations , we have , $ \ Delta \ alpha _ { 1 } = \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ , and $ \ Delta \ alpha _ { 2 } = - \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ . Because of these induced angles , the lift on the downgoing wing increases by $ \ Delta L$ , while of the other one decreases by $ \ Delta L$ . The net result is that the ' lower ' wing experiences an increases lift , causing a rolling moment , which causes the banking angle to reduce . <URL> Image from <URL>
The B-2 's pitot plate has actually been <URL> in conditions that may or may not have had the same effect on aircraft with pitot tubes . Pitot plates work much like pitot tubes ; they measure the pressure of incoming air . The main difference is just how they measure it : pitot tubes measure the ram force of air while pitot plates measuring how much air is constricted by an obstruction . Pitot plates direct air through a " plate " with a hole that impedes the flow almost like how a Venturi tube accelerates fluids . Pictured : Pitot/Orifice plate <URL> Pitot tubes are easier to maintain , inspect , and install . Some of their main problems that you might not encounter with a pitot plate , such as icing , are countered with tested and approved safety systems ( like heating ) . In addition , pitot tubes are not the only instrument to measure airspeed ; most commercial and GA aircraft use pitot-static systems in which other pressure sensors are used to get a better and more reliable reading . Pitot plates are advantageous in that they reduce air pressure about 5:1 rather than the pitot tube 's 10:1 ( meaning yes , less drag in some sense ) but on such a tiny scale it makes barely any difference . On the flip side , pitot plates have very inaccurate readings at lower speeds ( though so low that it probably would not matter for any jet aircraft ) . Also , it is to my knowledge that pitot plates are used mainly for fluid research , sometimes not even related to aviation . Since pitot tubes are relatively small compared to the size of an aircraft and are streamlined anyway , there would be little to no noticeable improvement in aerodynamics . You would think that jetliners have completely clean surfaces , but guess again : Removing a pitot tube wo n't make a difference . Note : the gray circles outlined in dotted red boxes are pitot-static ports , which , combined with an aircraft 's pitot tubes , make up the pitot-static system . They can measure air pressure for both airspeed and altitude among other things . Final thing I wanted to clear up : flat surfaces are generally less aerodynamic than curved surfaces . Someone got too much of that idea when designing this plane ... / s
The faster an aircraft is , the wider range of elevator deflections it needs . And so do aircraft with large change of weight ( amount of fuel used ) during flight . However larger elevator deflection causes higher drag . It is more efficient to move the whole horizontal stabilizer instead . Therefore jet aircraft generally have the forward part of the horizontal stabilizer movable . Now it would be possible to simply have the whole stabilizer move . And supersonic aircraft generally have just that . It is called <URL> . However having the stabilizer split lends itself to elegant solution for trim . This takes advantage of the fact , that the aerodynamic forces tend to put the elevator in the position of lowest drag almost straight ( slightly bent in direction of less lift ) behind the forward part . So when the forward part is moved , the lift changes without changing the force on the elevator . So the elevator is used for the small adjustments where the elevator is intended to return to the neutral position , which the aerodynamic forces help with , and the stabilizer is used to trim for current airspeed . In aircraft with mechanical controls , the elevator force ( or a fraction of it via power drive ) acts directly back on the control column and the pilot can feel it , while the horizontal stabilizer is actuated via mechanism that holds selected position ( may be electrical with jack-screw like on DC-9 or hydraulic , but with no feedback ) and connected to the trim , which is usually pair of large wheels on the sides of the centre console . Now in Airbus A320 and all newer models the side-stick does not have mechanical link and the pilot does not feel the force on the elevator anyway . In normal law , the ELACs automaically adjust the elevator and stabilizer so that with side-stick in neutral position , the aircraft maintains 1 G vertical acceleration and therefore straight flight ( at any flight path angle ) . Since the trim wheel does have direct mechanical link , it turns as the ELACs ( or SECs ) adjust trim . However the distinction between elevator and trim is still useful in case of failure . When the system degrades into direct law , the side-stick position corresponds to the elevator deflection and the trim wheel position corresponds to the stabilizer position . Since the side-stick still returns to neutral position , the distinction of using the elevator for momentary adjustments and trim to balance the aircraft to fly ( approximately ) straight at current speed holds ( just because the side-stick is spring-loaded , the force needed to deflect it does not increase with speed as it does for mechanical controls ) .
It depends on what you mean by trim . If you mean a a mechanism that allows the pilot to reduce the control forces in order to allow the helicopter to be flown hands off , then the answer is a qualified yes . If you mean a trim tab attached to a control surface , then the answer is no . Many airplanes which have a trim control do not use a trim tab . For example , Pipers have an anti-servo tab on the elevator , which the pilot uses to reduce control forces . Since helicopters are unstable -- meaning if you take your hand off the cyclic the aircraft will be in an unusual attitude within a second -- nothing short of electronics and actuators will allow a heli to be flown hands off . But every heli except the smallest ones , have considerable stick forces , which make them difficult to impossible to handle without some kind of assistance . The simplest setup is what you find on the original 4-seat R-44 Astro , which lacked hydraulic assist . On top of the cyclic you will find a 4-way " hat " switch which uses electrical actuators on the cyclic to reduce the control forces necessary to fly it . Larger helicopters have hydraulic assist , which allows the copter to be controlled with just two fingers . Inop hydraulics is considered an emergency . Big helicopters have a <URL> , which allows the helicopter to be flown hands off . An SAS is required for IFR flight .
First , the precise terms is not fins , but control surfaces . Fins would be fixed but the four rear surfaces can rotate around a spanwise axis . By rotating , they can be positioned at an angle to the airflow , thus deflecting it and creating an opposing force . Compare that to a <URL> . They work in the same way by creating a force normal to their plane . While this force has a vertical and horizontal component , the horizontal components of the single surfaces cancel each other when all surfaces are rotated by the same angle . Their vertical components will add up , creating a pitching moment . When the left and right surfaces are rotated by the opposite angle , their vertical force component will cancel while the horizontal component will add up , thus creating a yawing moment which swings the tail around . If it were to pitch downwards , which fins would need to move and in which direction ? All four surfaces will move trailing edge down , so the resulting force will point up and pitch the whole craft nose down .
( Note : This answer is tailored to the U.S. / FAA , because that is what I 'm familiar with . All the citations and references are FAA materials . If anyone has any tips on possible international differences , please let me know and I 'll edit them in . That said , I believe the descriptions I give are fairly consistent across the world , even if the FAA reg citations do n't directly apply . ) In what situations does ATC ask for ident , and is it ever required by procedure ? Generally , " ident " is used to help a controller identify an aircraft 's secondary radar ( transponder ) return . By asking the pilot to " squawk ident , " the controller can ensure that the aircraft he/she is talking to matches the radar target he thinks is that aircraft . It can also be used for communication , to allow a pilot to respond if their radio transmitter has failed . Specifically : It is a method to allow a controller to identify an aircraft on radar , per section 5-3-3 of <URL> : When using only Mode 3/A radar beacon to identify a target , use one of the following methods : a. Request the aircraft to activate the " IDENT " feature of the transponder and then observe the identification display . For lost communication , per section 10-4-4 of <URL> : Take the following actions , as appropriate , if two-way radio communications are lost with an aircraft : c. Attempt to re-establish communication by having the aircraft use its transponder or make turns to acknowledge clearances and answer questions . Request any of the following in using the transponder : 1 . Request the aircraft to reply Mode 3/A " IDENT . " This last scenario is common when experiencing radio failures . If ATC suspects that you might be able to hear them but not to talk back , they might say something like " Cessna 12345 , if you can hear me , squawk ident . " If you reply by pressing the IDENT button , they can then issue you further instructions and ask you to acknowledge those instructions by pressing IDENT again . What does the transponder actually do in this mode ? In normal operation , every time the transponder receives an interrogation from a ground station , it replies with a data block containing certain pieces of information . <URL> : The encoded pressure altitude ( for Mode C transponders ) A 12-bit identification code ( this is the 4-digit code you select in the cockpit ) A single extra bit for the " ident " flag When you push the IDENT button in the cockpit , the transponder sets that extra " ident " bit in its reply data . Anytime the transponder is interrogated while IDENT is active ( for a set duration of time after you press the button in the cockpit ) , its reply data block will have the IDENT bit set . ATC computer systems notice this and cause the IDENT to be shown on the controller 's radar display . What does the controller see on their screen ? It depends on the type of radar system in use . Generally the radar target will either blink , its symbol will change ( or " blossom " ) , or an indication such as " ID " will blink in the aircraft 's data block ( where the callsign is shown ) . The AIM has some schematic pictures that show what an IDENT looks like on an ARTS-III scope ( an older system still in use at some TRACONs ) . See <URL> and <URL> . I will try to find some pictures of other radar systems such as those used at ARTCCs and newer TRACONs . Does it depend at all on either the code or the mode the transponder is currently set for ? The code does n't matter . The IDENT flag is an extra bit in the transponder 's reply data that 's independent of the 12 bits used for the code . Obviously the IDENT will only be observed if the transponder is operating ( not OFF or in a STANDBY mode ) . But the IDENT works in any mode used by normal civilian transponders ( Modes A , C or S ) .
Origin of the vortices Wake turbulence is easy to understand once you know how a wing creates lift : By deflecting the air flowing across it downwards . In <URL> , I had used the simplification of just accelerating downwards all the air flowing through a circle with a diameter equal to the wingspan , and leaving all other air unaffected . This helps to understand the principle of lift creation , but is too simple , of course , because the downward movement of air will create a void above it , and the air below has to make place for that downward moving streamtube . Also , the pressure field around the wing will affect the air in the vicinity of the streamtube as well , and in consequence air from below will be pushed sideways already by the wing , and the air above will start to flow towards the low pressure area over the wing . This sideways movement will become more pronounced aft of the wing , such that air will continuously be pressed outwards below the wing 's wake , move up left and right of it and inwards above the wake . The inertia of the downwash keeps it moving downwards for several minutes , continuously displacing the air below it and sucking more air into the space above , and that will result in two vortices swirling behind the wing . This is the rolling up of the wake ( see the sketch below , taken from <URL> ) . The vortices are just a consequence of the downward movement of the wake , and this in turn is a consequence of lift creation . Please note that the cores of the vortices are closer together than the wingspan ! This by itself should make clear that they are not caused by air flowing around wingtips , a hard to extinguish misconception . The table below gives calculations of this vortex spacing . The table is also from the <URL> ; note the inclusion of Boeing 's 2707 project ! Strength of the vortices If we again come back to the simplified streamtube approximation , lift is proportional to the mass of air flowing through it per unit of time times the deflection angle . If lift is equal to the aircraft 's mass ( as it should be ) , heavy aircraft need to either accelerate more air ( wider span ) or accelerate air more ( higher deflection angle ) than light aircraft at the same speed . A higher deflection angle will produce more powerful vortices . For that reason , a heavy aircraft at low speed and with a small wingspan will produce the strongest vortices . Since more air flows through the streamtube at higher flight speed , flying faster will require less deflection , making the wake vortices weaker . If the aircraft climbs , air becomes less dense with altitude , and less mass flow over the wing is available , so the vortices grow stronger if the flight speed does not change . Normally , aircraft accelerate when climbing , and the vortex strength will stay the same if the aircraft flies at constant dynamic pressure . Vortices can be avoided in three ways : Infinite wing span ( meaning infinite mass flow , so no deflection is necessary for any lift ) Infinite speed ( again , gives infinite mass flow ) No weight of the aircraft . Flying a zero-g parabola does indeed produce almost no wake turbulence . End of the vortices Inertia will keep the wake moving downwards and the vortices spinning , but friction will let those air movements die down within a few minutes . If the aircraft flies high , the wake is dissipated long before it hits the ground . The wake of low flying aircraft , however , does hit the ground and is deflected . The vortex tube now acts like a wheel and starts moving outward , and if there is a sufficient crosswind , the windward vortex can be arrested as in the right sketch below ( also from the Carten report ) . Photographic evidence There are far too <URL> to not include some , so I will add a few here : You can see that the outer contrails of this Boeing 747 's engines wrap around the contrails of the inner engines . This shows how the air is pushed down in the wake of the wing and that the centers of the vortices are slightly inboard of the outer engines . The condensation traces originating at the winglet tips of this A340 move in - and upward , again showing that the vortex does not originate from the tips but forms behind the wing and with a distance between the two vortex cores of substantially less than the wingspan . These two pictures show how the downwash of the wake is cutting a furrow in the clouds . <URL> MD-11 on a moist day , flaps set for landing . One , it shows how insignificant the tip vortex is compared to vorticity shed at the flap tips , and Two it shows how the tip vortex moves inward and starts to be sucked into the wake vortex . Note also the tip vortices from the tail !
TCAS works by sending interrogations to other aircraft 's transponders . The transponder will reply to the interrogation in a similar way it responds to radar . From the time difference between the interrogation and the reply , the distance to the other aircraft is calculated . The reply itself contains the altitude of the other aircraft . The explanation below gives an insight in the basic working of the TCAS algorithm . In reality it is more complex to deal with all kinds of exceptional situations . The distance and the altitude difference with the other aircraft is tracked to identify a trend . From successive distance measurements the closure rate is determined . With the closure rate and the current distance ( slant range ) an approximation is made of the time to the closest point of approach ( CPA ) . This is done by simply dividing the range by the closure rate , the result is called ' range tau ' . The same is done in the vertical plane . Dividing the difference in altitude by the vertical speed difference leads to the vertical tau . If both tau 's are less than certain threshold , a Traffic Alert ( TA ) is raised . When the tau 's are less that another ( lower ) threshold , a Resolution Advisory is given . The TA is a ' heads up ' indication , the RA is an instruction that must be followed by the pilot to reduce the collision risk . The threshold times depend on the altitude , ranging from 20 seconds ( < 1000 ft AGL ) to 48 seconds ( > FL200 ) for TA 's and from 15 seconds ( < 2350 ft ) to 35 seconds ( > FL200 ) for RA 's . Below 1000 ft AGL , RA 's are inhibited . Originally TCAS did only give Traffic Advisories in the form of a " Traffic , traffic " annunciation . There was no avoiding action indicated . With the introduction of TCAS II in the second half of the '80s the Resolution Advisory made its entrance . RA selection In selecting a resolution advisory , there are two basically two steps . The first step is to select a sense , either upward or downward . This is based on a calculation of how much altitude difference can be achieved at the CPA by either starting a climb or descent , assuming the target will maintain its vertical rate . In the calculation the reaction time of the crew and acceleration and climb / descent rate of the aircraft is assumed ( 5 seconds , 0.25 g , 1500 fpm ) . The second step is to select a magnitude . The algorithm is designed to be the least disruptive to the flight path , whilst still achieving a minimum vertical separation . RA coordination When a RA is selected , it is transmitted to the other aircraft . When the other aircraft receives that message , it will only use the opposite sense for its own RA . In the rare case that both aircraft transmit their RA intent at the same time , the aircraft with the higher Mode S address will give in and reverse its RA sense if it is conflicting with the other . Algorithm versions Over the years various improvements are made to TCAS II . The initial TCAS II systems had version 6.0 of the algorithm , later replaced by 6.04 a in the mid 90 's . Further system evaluation lead to the development of version 7.0 , implemented from 1999 . Following a near mid-air collision in Japan in 2001 and a mid-air collision over Uberlingen , Germany further changes were made leading to version 7.1 . Changes that were made include : the wording of the RA 's logic to limit the vertical path deviations logic to prevent nuisance alerts in RVSM airspace and on closely spaced parallel runway operations logic to detect non-compliance to an RA improved RA sense reversal logic TCAS &amp; ATC TCAS RA 's take precedence of ATC instructions . The fact that one of the two aircraft followed ATC instructions , and the other TCAS RA 's contributed to the Uberlingen accident . In case a pilot is getting a TCAS RA he should notify ATC . ========== The FAA has produced an <URL> which provided some interesting reading on the topic .
<URL> They provide unambiguous and easily understood English words in a uniform manner in place of the original designations , which either may have been unknown to the Western world at the time or easily confused codes . Much the like the NATO alphabet rules the names but be easy to understand ( possibly under multiple speaking accents ) and must be non ambiguous . The following rules are also applied Aircraft The first letter indicates the type of aircraft , like Bear for a bomber aircraft , or Fulcrum for a fighter aircraft . F -- fighter aircraft , also later ground attack aircraft : <URL> B -- bomber aircraft : <URL> C -- commercial aircraft and airliners , and cargo aircraft : <URL> H -- helicopters : <URL> M -- Miscellaneous ; trainers , reconnaissance , seaplanes , tankers , AEW etc. : <URL> For fixed-wing aircraft , one syllable names were used for propeller-powered craft ( turboprops included ) , while two-syllable names indicated jet engines .
In Europe , airlines pay so-called route charges for flying through national airspaces . EUROCONTROL , the European aviation organisation , collects route charges from their Central Route Charges Office , CRCO , and then distributes the money to the member states , who in turn will distribute them to the national air navigation service providers ( ANSP 's ) - including private ones . The advantage of collecting route charges centrally , is that airlines only have to pay to a single organisation , in a single currency . The charge for individual flights is calculated based on distance flown and aircraft weight , which are multiplied by a unit rate . The unit rates are determined by the individual countries - they are not the same across all of Europe . Unit rates are based on the actual costs for providing air traffic services , such as ATC , communication facilities , navigation equipment , meteorological information , aeronautical information service and so on . Route charges do not apply to aircraft weighing less than 2 tonnes , state and government flights and search and rescue flights . Some states also exempt military flights , training flights , test flights , local flights , VFR flights , humanitarian flights , police flights etc. . You can read more about the CRCO <URL> , and about how route charges are determined <URL> . Regarding your second question , I fail to see why a private ANSP should be any less safe than a government one .
Windmill starts are a rather last-resort type of thing . Lots of things have to go wrong before pilots will be attempting that . First , an engine has to fail . Since airliners are required to have at least 2 engines , and be able to fly on one engine , this is n't a dire emergency . Pilots will work the associated checklists . If there is no apparent issue they may attempt to restart the engine using bleed air from the running engine . If there is an issue they will leave it shut down . With thousands of planes in the air , this sort of thing happens pretty much daily . <URL> , and generally due to <URL> . Pilots may be more aggressive in trying to get even a damaged engine started , as a damaged one is better then none at all . The APU may be started and used to help start the engines as well . <URL> which tends to be running out when gliding with no engines running . <URL> , engines are required as part of certification to demonstrate windmill starts . <URL> This establishes limits and guidelines that are put into the aircraft checklists . Pilots know that if they maintain a certain air speed , the engines should reach a certain RPM , which will allow them to be started . Of course if multiple engines have already failed , there is a chance that this issue will prevent a restart .
( I am assuming your question is asking about the FAA regulations . ) If you already have a PPL , then the requirements are modest . According to the <URL> : Additional Pilot Rating Holders of a valid FAA Power plane license with 40 hours as pilot-in-command need a minimum of 10 solo flights to qualify to take the glider flight test . No written exam is required to add a glider rating to a power license . In all cases , refer to the Federal Aviation Regulations for details on pilot licensing .
end question
start question
Why are there out-of-date tower frequencies on the VFR sectional chart , without a NOTAM ?
It 's not a printing error . FAA sectional charts are updated only once every six months . In order to to reduce the number of NOTAMs due to sectional changes ( which can number in the hundreds between cycles ) , the FAA provides a section in the Airport Facility Directory ( AFD ) , titled " Aeronautical Chart Bulletin " that identifies changes that have occurred since a chart 's publication . Pilots should check this section on each AFD update for changes on their intended route of flight . Once the change is posted in the AFD , the respective NOTAM is taken down . Here is an image of the applicable AFD page for Salinas , as of the date of this answer :
From the AIM : 4 − 1 − 4 . Recording and Monitoring a. Calls to air traffic control ( ATC ) facilities ( ARTCCs , Towers , FSSs , Central Flow , and Operations Centers ) over radio and ATC operational telephone lines ( lines used for operational purposes such as controller instructions , briefings , opening and closing flight plans , issuance of IFR clearances and amendments , counter hijacking activities , etc. ) may be monitored and recorded for operational uses such as accident investigations , accident prevention , search and rescue purposes , specialist training and evaluation , and technical evaluation and repair of control and communications systems . b. Where the public access telephone is recorded , a beeper tone is not required . In place of the " beep " tone the FCC has substituted a mandatory requirement that persons to be recorded be given notice they are to be recorded and give consent . Notice is given by this entry , consent to record is assumed by the individual placing a call to the operational facility . The use of " may be " for the manned stations would hint at a " no " for the CTAF , UNICOM , etc. ( Applies to official recording , liveatc not included . )
No , you can not . Carbon fibre composites always contain a matrix component which serves different functionalities , but ( in a micro nutshell ) bonds and keeps the fibres in place . What you get is a very complex material with lots of lightweight potential , but also very different property profiles compared to metals . Most matrix materials ( thermoset , thermoplastics ) will not work up to engine ( combustion chamber ) temperatures and either degrade/burn or melt/vaporize/burn long before reaching even a meagre few hundred Kelvin ( say , 500K ) . In fact , carbon fibres will not work as well in an oxygenated high-temperature environment , and degrade/burn up as well . One composite material that works and is used already in engines are ceramic matrix composites , like ( amongst others ) e.g. C/C-SiC structures , but those are very special animals ( and even there the carbon fibre parts are susceptible to burn ) . Especially in terms of mechanical properties , these can not compete with superalloys . But also for many other , ambient temperature parts , metals are much better suited . Think of example of a ball bearing - doing that completely in composite will not work really well ( if at all ) .
For conventional VORs , Positive sensing occurs when the headng currently being flown is on the top half of the VOR . Reverse sensing occurs when the current heading is on the bottom half of the VOR . <URL> Used wth permission from <URL> Taking this theory to the HSI where the currently flown heading is always on the top half and you can never have reverse sensing . It is also proper technique to set in the front course when flying a LOC/BC approach . This will negate the effects of reverse sensing for HSIs . To get all my students into the habit of setting in the front course for HSIs I teach to always set in the front course even when flying on conventional instruments . I do n't believe in positive and reverse sensing anymore . A discussion for another day . <URL>
NDBs in the U.S. transmit between 90 kHz and 535 kHz , and VHF is between 108 and 137 MHz . Of the VHF frequencies , the nav/com is only capable of transmitting between 118 MHz and 137 . So aside from electromagnet interference , no VHF radio should transmit on a frequency that he ADF receives .
The New York Sectional ( the only paper one I have on hand right now ) is 20 3/4 X 59 1/4 inches . You are correct , they are large and printed on nice thick paper .
According to <URL> , Any temporary or permanent structure , including all appurtenances , that exceeds an overall height of 200 feet ( 61 m ) above ground level ( AGL ) or exceeds any obstruction standard contained in <URL> should be marked and/or lighted . But the FAA does have special cases and since you are close to a strip they may require/recommend it , The FAA may also recommend marking and/or lighting a structure that does not exceed 200 ( 61 m ) feet AGL or <URL> standards because of its particular location . Looks like you need some <URL> Your <URL> should be able to help out with what ever info you need . As far as I know these kinds of regulations do n't change between public and private airports . You can find the letter of the law for <URL> . The most applicable to your case is quite possibly , ( 3 ) A height within a terminal obstacle clearance area , including an initial approach segment , a departure area , and a circling approach area , which would result in the vertical distance between any point on the object and an established minimum instrument flight altitude within that area or segment to be less than the required obstacle clearance . Even though you are not directly in line with the runway you may be in conflict with a potential traffic pattern or approach segment .
All studies which so far showed an advantage for blended-wing bodies ( BWB ) were flawed . The trick mostly used is to compare an existing airliner with a hypothetical BWB which uses equally hypothetical engines of improved efficiency , like what could be expected 20 years into the future . This masks the inefficiency of the BWB concept and makes the combination come out ahead . The BWB will always have more surface area than a comparable conventional design . This translates into more friction drag and more skin mass , which more than offsets any advantage given by the bigger wing root ( which helps to reduce wing spar mass ) . If you like real data , use the <URL> as an early BWB and compare it to its contemporaries . Note that design attempts for an airliner based on the Vulcan ( <URL> ) went nowhere . Why are these BWB studies published ? The author gets more attention when he/she claims a " revolutionary breakthrough " than when he/she is more honest and admits that the concept is a dud . Even Boeing or Airbus like to publish BWB studies , so the public gets the impression they are ahead of the competition . It is sickening to read such academically dishonest studies - you need to spend time to dig to the bottom of the thing and to unravel the plot ; however , once you have done this a few times , they all become alike . But compared to studies made 60 or 80 years ago , where the author factually lists what he did and why it did n't work out ( which is the only way you can learn something ) , those modern studies are a waste of time .
With larger wings comes more drag . True , because the drag is a function of the wing area A : $ $ D = C_D \ cdot \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho \ cdot V ^ 2 \ cdot A $ $ You need a certain wing area to support the weight of the aircraft . Now the question is : over how many wings will we distribute this wing area ? For over 80 years , the answer has been : one wing ( the two wing halves make up one wing ) . The classical biplane is a thing of the past , however there have been incredibly clever aircraft builders who have looked at the long coupled canard configuration . This one really makes a lot of sense : <URL> Image <URL> So to answer your question : there are aircraft with two wings . It 's just that people do n't buy them , and go for boring old Cessna 's instead .
I 'll address these one by one . Should shoulder harnesses be installed , at least to enable passengers to decide to use them or not ? No . They would not serve a significant purpose to improve safety in those seats , and they would add weight and increase maintenance costs for airlines . Keep reading , and this will come to light collectively with my full answer . Why would shoulder harnesses be obligated for flight attendants in their jump seats , but not for passengers ? Those seats are n't lined up in rows , therefore there is no seat in front of them that they would hit and be stopped by . Think of it like a school bus with no seat belts ; the passengers will be stopped by the seat in front of them in a low-force crash , but the bus driver wears a seat belt because there is a steering wheel and windshield in front of them , not a padded seat . How is 4 true ? ( It is superfluous in a crash when compared to the same safety from a lap belt ) Essentially , if there is a crash that will kill people , the shoulder harness will not be the thing that makes a difference . The lap belt is n't really even there for crashes . Extreme turbulence could throw someone up out of a seat ; a lap belt is sufficient to prevent this . A shoulder strap is designed to reduce impact with an object on board a vehicle . A car , we can safely assume , will remain in one piece if it hits a concrete wall . Airplanes do not have structures designed to withstand impacts like that . If a plane disintegrates in a crash , the passenger , packaged along with the lap belt , shoulder strap , and all , will come to impact the external object directly due to structural failure . No seat belt can save you from a total structural failure . Do the safety benefits not outweigh the costs ? Since there really is no safety benefit whatsoever in adding them in the seats that do n't already have them , no . It would be security theater that costs airlines a lot of money . Regarding Pilots Notice I highlighted the low-force impact statement up above in regards to buses . Let 's say there is a low-force impact in a plane such as a taxiing crash that jars everyone on board . The passengers will hit the seats in front of them , not that the seats are even necessary to prevent injury . However the pilots , on the other hand , have a lot of hard instrumentation in front of them such as throttle quadrants , and other things you do n't want accidentally shoved forward during a ground crash .
Even the largest commercial airliners are able to land without flaps , since flap failures do happen occasionally . See a report <URL> where an A380 landed with no flaps . This was at the Auckland , New Zealand airport , where the runway is 3,635 m ( 11,926 ft ) long . The pilots have checklists to follow in the event of issues with flaps , which include information about what speeds they should fly with what amounts of flaps . They simply land at a higher than normal speed . The brakes can end up getting hotter than normal , so they may have to stop and let them cool or have them inspected by emergency services . The tires are designed to deflate with <URL> before high temperatures would cause them to blow . Aircraft are also tested to make sure they can reject a takeoff at high weights ( higher than normal landing weights ) using no thrust reversers . Here is a video of the 747-8 doing this test .
Bailing out the cockpit during that era was neither an easy nor always a successful task . The pilot had to either roll the plane , open the canopy , and release themselves to the void , or if rolling was n't possible , walk on the wing and jump . That 's inherently unsafe . Do n't forget that you are not exiting a healthy plane . There might be smoke , debris , fire , propellers spinning , the tail that might cross your way out . Read what happened to <URL> when he tried to bail out . Quote from Wikipedia : the left side of his chest striking the vertical stabiliser of his fighter , either killing him instantly or rendering him unconscious to the point that he could not deploy his parachute . Now , regarding ditching versus bailing out , I do n't have any source to substantiate the chances of survival , because in the end , what matters is to get out of there alive . But I guess it depends on many factors , one of them being the sea state as they mention in the film . Another one is the type of damage the airframe has sustained . It might be better to risk a " gentle " contact with the water if there is no " urgent reason " to leave the plane and you can ditch reasonably soon , than to exit the cockpit and increase the chance of being injured by anything that I 've mentioned in the first paragraph . Finally , it turns out that the choice heavily depends on the situation . I have n't seen the movie so besides the " sea state " I do n't know the details . So provided that you are above a water mass capable of supporting the ditching idea , the factors mostly influencing the decision are : Airframe condition Altitude below you as Pete pointed out and Philip Johnson mentioned in <URL> . Too low and you might not have time to deploy parachute . Sea state Time of day . You might want to touch water at a lower speed if you ca n't see it . Position of allied forces and/or shore . Surviving the crash is one thing ; being rescued a whole other .
For the <URL> , I found this <URL> below , seems like it 's the opposite of a warning . E ) A SOLAR ECLIPSE WILL TAKE PLACE ON THE 20TH OF MARCH . SPECIAL ROUTES HAVE BEEN DEFINED FOR FLIGHTS PLANNING TO VIEW THE ECLIPSE . THE ROUTES ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS : ( ... ) ANY ADDITIONAL REQUESTS FOR A SOLAR ECLIPSE PROFILE SHALL BE SENT TO REYKJAVIK OACC SHIFT MANAGER , SEE CONTACT INFO BELOW . SOLAR ECLIPSE FLIGHTS WILL BE GIVEN PRIORITY DURING THE ECLIPSE . OTHER FLIGHTS MAY EXPECT A REROUTE AND OR LEVEL CHANGE FOR SEPARATION PURPOSES . Regarding the temperature drop , from <URL> : Because the patch of the shadow travels faster than the speed of sound , weather systems will only be affected very locally directly under the instantaneous footprint of the eclipse . The main effect is in the " radiant heating " component which goes away suddenly at the moment of eclipse and produces a very fast temperature decrease . If the wind is blowing , your body probably exaggerates , by evaporative cooling , how large the actual temperature swing actually is . Due to the Earth 's geometry , the shadow 's speed differs from location to location , <URL> equates to Mach 2.2 at 50,000 feet for an F-15 to fly along . Even for that F-15 in constant complete darkness , every instance is a new darkness . Some <URL> mention the drop at the surface being 3 ° C ( 5 ° F ) , but it looks like it 's not a thoroughly studied field ( impact of solar eclipses on local weather ) .
If you assume the main gear does not rotate ( in the left-right sense ) , then the pivot point will always be somewhere on a line joining the two main gears . You can then use trigonometry and the turn angle of the nose wheel to identify the centre of rotation . ( Assume the nose tyre does not slip sideways . ) ( By the way this is very similar to Ackermann steering used on cars - lots of standard mechanical texts talk about this . )
No the paddle acts as an inverted wing and pushes air up , this in turn will push the glider up . Even with ground effect a non-powered glider can not maintain height and speed .
I 'm not aware of any rules , hopefully others can contribute , but you can usually predict the next frequency with a high rate of precision . For example ( exact stations will differ depending on airport and airspace type ) a typical IFR sequence of stations . Clearance delivery Ground Tower Departures Sector/area ... Sector/area Approach Tower Ground The initial tuning will put delivery in live and ground in standby . Then as you say , just press the toggle . When the next frequency gets dialled in is not , as far as I know , governed in anyway and is probably not even in SOPs since it is just about using the equipment more efficiently . Say delivery has given you a clearance . They will probably follow up with something like " call ground 129.7 " for push and start " . When you are ready for push and start , toggle to ground then put the tower into the standby frequency and so on . Frequency changes are certainly made in cruise , when passing from one ACC sector to the next . These frequencies are published in the national AIP 's and visible on en-route charts . For a sector handoff , I 'd probably dial the next frequency in when the current sector instructs me to contact xyz . It 's really not a big deal if you have to contact someone unexpected . Modern boxes with push button tuning are almost as quick to tune manually as to toggle .
This varies based on if you are VFR or IFR certified . Basic currency requirements for general aviation flying under part 91 which I presume is the target of this question . The comments to the answer outline the commercial implications , can be found in <URL> ( a ) General experience . ( 1 ) Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , no person may act as a pilot in command of an aircraft carrying passengers or of an aircraft certificated for more than one pilot flight crewmember unless that person has made at least three takeoffs and three landings within the preceding 90 days , and -- ( i ) The person acted as the sole manipulator of the flight controls ; and ( ii ) The required takeoffs and landings were performed in an aircraft of the same category , class , and type ( if a type rating is required ) , and , if the aircraft to be flown is an airplane with a tailwheel , the takeoffs and landings must have been made to a full stop in an airplane with a tailwheel . ... [ read on for IFR and night currency ] However the FAA actually views using the auto-pilot as manipulating the controls . You can find <URL> . But in short , The FAA considers a pilot 's use and management of the autopilot to be the equivalent of manipulating the controls , just as one manages other flight control systems , such as trim or a yaw dampener . The autopilot system 's sophistication does not affect a pilot 's responsibility to manipulate and manage all control systems , including an autopilot , appropriately . Therefore , a pilot may log PIC flight time as the sole manipulator of the controls for the time in which he or she engages an autopilot . With that in mind you can maintain your currency using only auto-pilot and in theory if your plane and the desired airport was equipped for <URL> ( which , as far as I know , no GA planes are ) you could maintain your currency without physically manipulating the yoke aside from takeoff and climb to autopilot altitude . So no there is no legal obligation to physically touch the controls to maintain currency if your plane is capable of some kind of completely programmable flight ( I do n't think any are currently ) . There is however one notable exception to this regulation . On an IFR checkride you must fly a manual approach , <URL> ... • The applicant must accomplish at least two nonprecision approaches in simulated or actual weather conditions . At least one must be flown without the use of autopilot and without the assistance of radar vectors . The yaw damper and flight director are not considered parts of the autopilot for purposes of this Task . It claims to do everything for you within 50 feet of the ground . This is a bit misleading . First off , most , if not all GA planes lack <URL> so power management is in the hands of the pilot and is fully manual in most cases . Some more modern airplanes like the <URL> which loops prop and throttle controls to one lever minimizing but not eliminating manual control . There are <URL> and function varies heavily : some only have a single axis ( heading hold and adjust capability ) . Some have 2 axes which can hold altitude and headings and some which have the ability to follow GPS courses , fly approaches down to different minimums etc. . It should be noted that some units can be set to create situations that can stall the aircraft or otherwise put it in a dangerous flight scenario , the auto in autopilot does not mean absolute protection or full automation . If so , can it be remotely piloted ? This is actually a completely separate question if you are asking " do I need to physically be inside the aircraft " i.e. " can I maintain currency with a drone if it 's properly equipped " . I do n't think the FAA has fully fledged regulations on this yet . If by remote you mean by use of autopilot , see above .
For the US , according to <URL> of the AIM ( Designated UNICOM/MULTICOM Frequencies ) for private fixed-wing flights you should use 122.75 : Air-to-air communication ( private fixed wing aircraft ) : 122.750 Air-to-air communications ( general aviation helicopters ) : 123.025 Aviation instruction , Glider , Hot Air Balloon ( not to be used for advisory service ) : 123.300 , 123.500 I have no idea what the military does and their tactical comms might even be encrypted anyway , but they frequently use UHF instead of VHF , at least in the US . Nor do I know what to do if you have two formation flights at the same time , but I guess that in reality it 's either an air show with some form of semi-official control and perhaps even NOTAMs , or it 's something private and in that case people make their own arrangements , e.g. picking some frequency that does n't overlap with any nearby assigned frequencies . Using 123.45 is apparently common , but definitely not official . Non-VHF communications for private flights would be regulated by the FCC , not the FAA , and personally I 'm not sure if the benefits would be worth the extra equipment and the risk of confusion , but then again I know nothing about formation flying . EDIT : some useful information from the FAA is in this <URL> clarifying the use of 121.5 and 123.45 . It says that 123.45 is for operational use in oceanic regions , and within the US it 's reserved for " non-government flight test operations " . There 's also an <URL> on requesting temporary frequencies for airshows etc. but it 's air to ground only .
Are there any still commercial airplanes in use that are still steerable with complete loss of all electric systems ? Do some commercial airplanes still have mechanical backup steering mechanisms ? <URL> On most ( * ) Airbus aircrafts , In case of a complete loss of electrical flight control signals , the aircraft can be temporarily controlled by mechanical mode . This is called and is the lowest level of control law ( after Normal , Alternate and Direct Laws ) The aircraft can be steered : Pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer by using the manual trim wheel . Lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . The pilots are notified with : A red MAN PITCH TRIM ONLY warning appears on the PFD . But : Both controls require hydraulic power . This means that if the aircraft looses BOTH electrical and hydraulic power , is no more controllable . Usually there are pressurised hydraulic reservoirs that allow to have a minimum of hydraulic power even if there is total loss of electrical power , but if there is substantial damage to the aircraft that has severed the hydraulic lines , this is no more applicable . ( * ) : beyond the A320 . Functionalities vary in <URL> : ( emphasys mine ) Primary Flight controls : Back-up Control Logical evolution of A320 / A340 / A340-600 family : Full Fly-By-Wire , with a " Back-up " as an additional precaution to keep control of the aircraft during temporary loss of : all Primary Flight Control computers all Electrical power supply A320 : full FBW controls , mechanical Back-up ( Pitch Trim &amp; Rudder ) A340/A330 : like A320 , additional Yaw Damper to improve Dutch Roll damping even in Back-up mode ( BYDU with hydraulic micro generator ) A340-600 : like A340 for pitch , Rudder becomes fully Electrical ( BPS + BCM : Back-up Power Supply + Control Module ) A380 : like A340-600 for Yaw control + BPS+BCM also power : Electrical Pitch Back-Up ( elevators ) linked to side-stick Electrical Roll Back-Up ( ailerons ) linked to side-stick Pitch Trim ( Wheel is replaced by Switches ) For the A380 , in particular : Active Stability Control functions : All levels of control laws ( Normal , Alternate , " Direct " and even Back-up ) include a Yaw and Pitch damping function
No , because the responsibilities are n't any different . And , with a safety pilot on board , the capabilities really should n't be either .
end question
start question
Pre-50 's , how was electricity generated without using an Integrated Drive Generator ?
Inverters , it would appear , were not uncommon . I get the feeling that the quality of the ( unregulated ) AC from alternators was insufficient for instrument applications , and was primarily used for less sensitive systems . For more stable AC , it appears that the inverters were used . B-17G AC System Alternating current for the autosyn instruments , drift meter , radio compass , and warning signals transformer is furnished by either of 2 inverters , one of which is a standby for the other . One inverter is under the pilot 's seat and the other under the copilot 's seat . A single-pole , double-throw switch on the pilot 's control panel controls the DC power to the inverters and selects the inverter to be used . In the " NORMAL " position the left-hand inverter is on and in the " ALTERNATE " position the right-hand inverter is on . <URL> <URL> also seem to offer support for this . B-47 Stratojet Finally , a <URL> . Two ( unregualted ) AC alternators for ' windscreen deicing and some radar equipment ' , with 2 +1 spare single-phase inverters for other AC users . <URL> <URL> KC-97 Stratostanker Has 6 generator dials , and 4 inverters on the flight engineer 's station , looking at a panel diagram and the bottom right of <URL> . That being said , there are two switches labelled alternators on the AC section of the panel . They only seem to offer " NESA Bus " ( B-47 manual seems to imply this is for window deicing ) or Bus No. 2 , depending on how the right switch is set . The left switch is for the voltmeter/ammeter dials . Credits to brewbooks on Flickr
Speed was life in air combat until the jet age . The pilots who became Air Force generals in the Fifties had learned their trade in the Thirties when speed was the most-desired quality in a fighter . Naturally , the ability to be faster than any adversary was very important to them . When the requirements for new fighter aircraft were written in the Fifties , those generals made sure that a higher top speed was part of the specification . When those supersonic-capable aircraft were used in real conflicts , something very surprising and unforeseen happened : They did hardly ever fly supersonic . When the Air Force in the late Sixties accumulated the flight data from several years of Vietnam war air combat , they found that all aircraft had accumulated just minutes at Mach 1.4 and only seconds at Mach 1.6 out of more than 100,000 combat sorties ¹ . Never was even Mach 1.8 flown in aircraft which had been optimized for Mach 2.4 ( F-104 , F-105 , F-106A , F-4D / E and F-111 ) . To cite from this study why speed stayed mostly subsonic : The first of these reasons lies in the shape of the turn rate vs Mach number relationship for an aircraft . [ ... ] In combat , each pilot has the tendency to to fly his aircraft so as to maximize his turn rate . He thus gains angular position on the enemy which , in turn , may permit a missile launch or a gun firing . [ ... ] It can be seen that the pilot 's urge to maximize his turn rate will unfailingly drive his Mach number to about 0.7 . Thus , if the pilot is going to join in combat , [ ... ] his speed will inevitably drop to subsonic speeds . [ ... ] Note also , that even if the turn rate is held constant while increasing the speed , [ ... ] the turn radius and load factor increase , bringing with it increasing problems of keeping the enemy in sight . The second reason given in the study is the dramatically smaller <URL> ( the maximum distance the airplane can travel from its base , accomplish an objective and return ) once the aircraft starts to fly at supersonic speeds . Even for flying into the combat arena supersonic speed was rarely advantageous . Northrop studied a multitude of intercept cases and found that speeds above Mach 1.1 were almost never helpful because they curtailed the combat radius severely . Now you need to know that the top speed is an important driver in airframe design . Flying at Mach 2 + requires <URL> , a heat-resistant structure , high wing sweep and <URL> . This all degrades the combat qualities at high subsonic speed , which was where those aircraft were used the most . Building into them the capacity for Mach 2 + made them worse for what they were actually used for . From the late Sixties on this lesson was incorporated into the newer designs like the <URL> . Stealth again decreased the importance of supersonic capability , and the maximum sustained speed of the <URL> was actually reduced from Mach 1.8 to Mach 1.6 to reduce the heat load on the composite wing leading edge . ¹ Source : <URL> , AIAA Professional Study Series
A 15cm diameter fan could maybe lift 4 KG of mass with a tip speed of 0.6 M. By increasing the power and the blade chord length ( in other words , increasing the solidity of the rotor ) , this may be increased to maybe 6KG or more , but a single fan would probably never lift more than 10KG mass . The thrust of a rotor is $ CT \ cdot \ rho \ cdot Area \ cdot tipSpeed ^ 2 $ . $ \ rho $ = air density ( 1.225 kg/m ^ 3 at sea level ) . $ Area $ = area of rotor disc ( m ^ 2 ) $ tipSpeed $ = the linear speed at the tip of the rotor = radial speed * radius . $ CT$ = coefficient of thrust . ( is usually in the order of 0.02 to 0.05 for small rotors ) Assuming $ CT$ of 0.03 , the calculation shows 40N ( = 4 KG ) thrust . Disc area is one of the most important parameters , even a 30cm disc would generate 4 times the thrust . 60cm would make almost 65 KG . Apparently , a 50cm diameter disc can possibly generate 45kg thrust on its own . So two of them could carry and maybe even lift-off a person equipped with this backpack ( the person + the system must be less than 90 KG ) .
I understand that the aircraft owner had sought for some time to donate the aircraft . I would presume that he had come to a time in life where he was , or felt he was , no longer able to fly the aircraft , and so was seeking to rid himself of what may have become a burden ( hangar fees , etc. ) . To quote liberally from the builder/destroyer 's daughter who created and uploaded the YouTube video ( this is quoted from what she wrote in the video description ) : It took him two years to make this decision about his plane . He did actually try to donate it to a couple of aviation schools in the area and the schools politely refused the offer . He also tried to donate to a local museum and was also refused . He knew when he built the plane he might face this decision one day , but he hoped some of the laws would have changed by that time . [ ... ] Mr. Ron Rapp , author of the article " A Tragic Pile of Twisted Metal " and noted blogger on his website The House of Rapp. , highlights many reasons my Dad made this decision among others . A couple months before my dad made his final decision , a local fellow pilot was named in a lawsuit because he sold the plane he built to a man that later crashed and killed himself in the plane . The spouse of the buyer filed the suit and also named other companies who made parts used to build the plane . Many have commented that he should have used a limited liability entity , such as a LLC or a corporation to sell the plane . However , because the plane was not , at the time of manufacturing , owned in a properly capitalized limited liability entity with a legitimate business purpose and was , in fact , used purely for personal reason , courts would in almost all cases " pierce the corporate veil . " Therefore , this does not offer adequate ( or any ) protection . I do n't think I can add a whole lot to that . Apparently , he had decided that he was unwilling to take on the liability of letting someone else fly what he had built . In the absence of a party interested in the aircraft for anything other than flight , he chose to destroy it .
You have 3 questions : What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? What exactly happens in the aircraft when disengaging the generators ? As mentioned in the other answers : A solenoid removes a retention pin . This allows a spring-driven pawl to engage a worm gear on the drive input shaft . This causes the inner input shaft to disengage from the engine drive . Thus the generator drive rapidly coasts to a stop . <URL> Source : <URL> What benefit does it have to be not able to engage them again ? The primary reason to disconnect the generators is when some mechanical problem causes a risk of serious mechanical damage to them . From <URL> : Condition : Low IDG oil pressure or high IDG oil temperature . Crew Response : Affected GENERATOR DRIVE DISCONNECT switch PUSH . Note : This action prevents damage to the IDG . DRIVE DISC message is displayed . ELECT GEN OFF message is displayed . A lesser reason might be to prevent a seized-up generator drive from adversely affecting an otherwise operable engine . Since whatever caused the loss of oil ( pressure ) and/or overheating almost never can be corrected in the air , then there is no point in being able to reengage the generator drives in the air . Furthermore , to provide that capability would require complex mesh gears , clutches , and mechanisms that would add considerable weight and more points of failure -- all to cover a contingency that is both rare and very unlikely to be critical ( discounting sabotage ) . Is it only the B747 that works like that or also other Airliners ? Most large jet aircraft use some form of Constant speed drive ( CSD ) to power their electrical generators , as the alternatives are not well suited to the large electrical demands of jetliners . From Wikipedia , we see that <URL> .
It 's only really ambiguous once a year , when moving from summer time to winter time and the hour is ' repeated ' - in this case , departures and arrivals are scheduled in the ' first ' instance of the hour . On the other shift , the hour is ' lost ' so the departure takes place later . In practice , no planes are scheduled to arrive or depart in this missing hour , and since almost all nations make the change in the middle if the night when airspace is very quiet and most airports have no departures at all there is virtually no knock-on effect . Arrivals arrive when they arrive , departures are simply scheduled for a ' real ' hour , if there are even departures at all at that time of day anyway . Note that this is only for passenger scheduling - in air traffic control etc all times are Zulu ( UTC ) which has no ambiguity .
You are right , propeller noise is dominant in case of GA aircraft , but not all propellers make the same noise . Much depends on blade loading and tip speed - making the propeller larger and letting it turn more slowly will improve efficiency and reduce noise . This has worked very convincingly for model aircraft over the last 30 years . GA engines are normally ungeared , so their propeller speed and diameter are the same . Switching to a geared IC engine like a <URL> not only makes the engine lighter but also the propeller less noisy . Switching to an electric motor , which can produce high torque at low speed , will allow to exploit this effect to the fullest . Other sources of noise will profit from electrification , too . The exhaust noise will be completely avoided , and airframe vibrations will be greatly reduced . Radiator noise will fall away , too . It is a small source of noise , but every bit counts . What will be left is the noise of the slower propeller ( s ) and aerodynamic noise . Now landing gear retraction would be the next big step in noise reduction .
You do n't have to be an ATP to fly an airliner . In fact , you can fly an airliner as a private pilot . John Travolta is the best example I can think of ... He has a house right by a private airport and flies his own personal Boeing 707 ( with Qantas livery ) and another jet aircraft ( Gulfstream I think ) . With any large aircraft like this over 12500 lbs or with turbojet engine ( s ) , a pilot does need a type specific rating to fly such an aircraft as well as needing to be " current " in that type , but may do so as long as current at any certificate " level " of private pilot or above . However , to fly an airliner as a scheduled air carrier pilot , then yes , an ATP is required as this type of flight would not fall under part 91 or part 135 of the FARs , but instead part 121 which requires that all pilots have ATP certificates .
<URL> they give a calculation for the thrust generated by a Meredith effect cooler . They do this for the P51 Mustang . It is also mentioned that in Aeroplane monthly , May 1999 ( not accessible to me ) , the designer Atwood claims that the Meredith effects cooler generates 300 lbs of force . <URL> perform some calculations based on geometry obtained from Gruenhagen 's " Mustang . The story of the P51 fighter " , 1969 . These calculations also lead to number around 300 lbs ( it calculates 270 lbs of thrust ) . However , the calculations do not included the effects of the heating of the air whilst passing through the cooler ( which is - according to me - a vital component of the way in which these coolers generate thrust ) .
Ah that 's a good question indeed . You asked How to reduce altitude in a passenger jet Normally most of the passenger jets have <URL> They are effective and can be <URL> . Now what happens in case you do n't have spoilers for any reason . I was discussing the subject with a pilot many years ago and he told me the trick you mentioned : you apply rudder to one direction ( I assume opposite to the engine rotation to avoid unpleasant surprises ) . That increases dramatically the forward surface of the plane against the relative air flow . That results in increased drag and thus speed loss . But yaw causes roll ( and vice versa ) . Also the wing of the side you are yawing to , has less lift because it is shaded from the forebody of the plane . This is where the aileron is needed . You need aileron to maintain lateral stability and prevent the aircraft from rolling . See the image bellow . The orange lines denote the area of increased drag by the fuselage . The green area is the " shaded " area of decreased lift of the wing . <URL> Top view from <URL> . Derivative work by me . According to that pilot , this is more effective than spoilers . But there is a trap : You need to be careful not to yaw the plane too much because the shaded wing will loose too much of its lift and will result in capsizing the plane . EDIT : Finally , you mentioned emergency . There are different types of emergencies . Pressurization is an emergency situation but does not affect aircraft control ( at least not directly ) . Hydraulics problems or engine loss is an emergency as well . But that will affect the way you will handle the aircraft . Here I can not help you . A trained pilot perhaps can answer , though I believe that the answers will vary depending on each planes flight manual .
Well , the rubber hoses themselves were used instead of traditional electromag transducer headphones for two main reasons ; first , the hoses were much cheaper than a decent pair of traditional headphones at the time , and to an extent they 're washable , so airlines could provide a pair for everyone at a much lower pricepoint than traditional headphones . Second , the hoses were more or less useless without the driving system aboard the aircraft , largely removing the incentive for passengers to walk off with them , again reducing costs of providing the system to passengers . The system was phased out in favor of simple 1/8 " stereo jacks at each seat in the '80s and '90s as portable audio became mainstream , and as airlines looked to dramatically slash costs in the face of deregulation beginning in 1978 . Economies of scale meant that buying cheapo Walkman-style headphones in bulk became cheaper than maintaining the aging pneumatic systems , and the electric-based system was more reliable and had several advantages ( such as volume control for each passenger , and if standard 1/8 " jacks were used , the ability for a savvy flyer to bring their own , nicer pair for use on the flight ) . As an aside , this pneumatic audio system is still used today for a very different purpose ; newborn hearing screenings . A pair of flaps with a mild adhesive are stuck to baby 's ears , then hoses lead back to a finely-calibrated audio system coupled to an EEG . Audio is played and the EEG is monitored to detect the response to the sound in baby 's brain . The hose system is used because it allows the expensive , fine-tolerance part of the audio system to be reused from test to test , while the hoses themselves are disposable and ( as hospital equipment goes ) fairly inexpensive .
Even the largest commercial airliners are able to land without flaps , since flap failures do happen occasionally . See a report <URL> where an A380 landed with no flaps . This was at the Auckland , New Zealand airport , where the runway is 3,635 m ( 11,926 ft ) long . The pilots have checklists to follow in the event of issues with flaps , which include information about what speeds they should fly with what amounts of flaps . They simply land at a higher than normal speed . The brakes can end up getting hotter than normal , so they may have to stop and let them cool or have them inspected by emergency services . The tires are designed to deflate with <URL> before high temperatures would cause them to blow . Aircraft are also tested to make sure they can reject a takeoff at high weights ( higher than normal landing weights ) using no thrust reversers . Here is a video of the 747-8 doing this test .
There is quite a lot written on the topic , especially as part of " ground effect " vehicles research . For example , <URL> cite two different types of lift coefficient . The first one ( simpler and given here ) is based on flat plate airfoils and is a modification to the well-known $ \ frac { dC_l } { d \ alpha } = 2 \ pi $ : $ $ C_L = 2 \ pi \ alpha ( 1 + \ delta ^ 2 ) ( 1-2 \ zeta ) $ $ with $ $ \ zeta = \ frac { \ sin \ alpha } { 4 ( h/c ) } $ $ and $ $ \ delta = \ frac { \ cos \ alpha } { 4 ( h/c ) } $ $ In the above expressions , $ h $ is the height of the wing above the surface ( ground , water , etc. ) , $ c $ is the chord and $ \ alpha $ is the angle of attack . I strongly recommend you check out " ground effect " / " Ekranoplan " literature - should be useful .
Stalls occur based on a wing 's angle of attack rather than the aircraft 's airspeed . ( In fact , one of the basic facts that all pilots learn in their initial training is that an airplane can stall at any airspeed ) . The A330 measures angle of attack using vanes mounted on the fuselage : However , below 60 knots , these vanes <URL> . During the AF447 accident , the stall warning only engaged intermittently because the computers detected that the airspeed readings from the blocked pitot tubes were invalid , and therefore silenced the stall warning system . Furthermore , because of the lack of valid airspeed data , AF447 was no longer in <URL> ( and therefore had no automated angle-of-attack protection ) , a fact which the pilots may not have been aware of . By the time the deicing equipment had cleared the pitot tubes , the aircraft was at such an extreme pitch that airspeed indications were still considered invalid , and the stall warning system did not activate . The computers only activated the stall warning system when the crew pitched down , which brought valid airspeed data back into the cockpit . An <URL> suggests that this may have contributed to the accident : We also note that the aircraft , or more specifically the design of the stalling warning system , misled the pilots : each time they reacted appropriately , the alarm triggered inside the cockpit , as though they were reacting wrongly . Conversely , each time the pilots pitched up the plane , the alarm shut off , preventing a proper diagnosis of the situation . ( Emphasis mine )
I want to measure a commercial speed for Concorde flights . The answer was given by Andy in his comments providing links to websites that recorded past timetables for Concorde : <URL> and <URL> Timetable schedule must take into account time difference between cities so that a British Airways Concorde flight JFK 12h15 to LHR 21h00 with -5 hours difference will give a 3h45 of commercial flight duration . Surprisingly , to me at least , trade winds did not seem to play a significant role in this measurement because timetable on the reverse route exhibit similar duration . Air France flights follow the same rationale . The measurement indicate a general figure of 3h45 for transatlantic Concorde flights . Next step is determining the kilometre distance . As I want a geographical time-distance I care only about <URL> and do not care about the exact path followed by the flight which would tell about aircraft/pilot/airline performance . I used the <URL> website . My only issue is measuring the performance ( speed ) of the transport system in getting from point A to point B . So I finally have my figure : 5 850 km / 3h45 = 1 560 km/h was the commercial speed of Concorde ( or 969 mph in non international units ) .
the purpose of the 50 microsecond delay is to eliminate the possibility of uncoordinated operation when the aircraft is very close to the ground station From <URL> Addendum I have not found a clear explanation for what is meant by " uncoordinated operation " in the context of DME . What follows is speculation : If you look at patents related to DME , it seems this predictable delay ensured that the initial transmission from the aircraft would have been completely received before the reply was transmitted by the base-station and received at the aircraft . I believe a DME response has to match the pattern of the DME interrogation so that the receiver in the aircraft can identify which response to apply timing to if multiple DME-equipped aircraft are in range . The pulse spacing is 12 µs1 and this is the same order of magnitude as the round-trip transmission time at 1 mile . A single DME interrogation contains several pulses . It may be difficult to design ground station equipment that can start transmitting a matching response if it has not yet received the pattern of data it has to reproduce . The alternative would be to start transmitting the response as soon as possible after detecting the end of receipt of a valid DME interrogation . There are delays in processing within the ground station equipment which may vary ( at least from station to station depending on equipment ) and which therefore need to be made constant for accurate distances to be calculated by the airborne receiver . Any variations would be more significant at closer distances . It might also be easier to design airborne equipment if it does not have to start receiving the response before it has finished transmitting the interrogation . References <URL> <URL> I believe DME was invented around 1944-45 but can not find any patents that early . There are quite a few patents on this subject .
ICAO ICAO Annex 11 and Doc 4444 confirm the usage of Upper . Airways are four groups per ICAO , the older group is <URL> . Those stand for Amber , Blue , Green , and Red . There are three other groups . So an airway named UG1 will be called Upper Green ( not Golf ) One on the radio . Example they give in Doc 4444 : N0450F310 L9 UL9 STU285036/M082F310 UL9 LIMRI ( ... ) the flight will proceed on Airways Lima 9 and Upper Lima 9 to a point bearing 285 degrees magnetic and 36 NM from the Strumble VOR . From this ( ... ) <URL> also confirms it , check page 251 : <URL> FAA ( for airways only ) Q is called Q ( kyo͞o ) on the radio ( not Quebec ) , J is called J , not Juliet or Jet ( Jet is what it means ) . See <URL> 2 − 5 − 1 AIR TRAFFIC SERVICE ( ATS ) ROUTES . VOR/VORTAC/TACAN airways or jet routes . State the word " Victor " or the letter " J " followed by the number of the airway or route in group form . EXAMPLE − " Victor Twelve . " " J Five Thirty − Three . " The FAA is similar in using the color code for the aforementioned group : Colored/L/MF airways . State the color of the airway followed by the number in group form . EXAMPLE − " Blue Eighty − One . " Also check the <URL> , page 2-24 of <URL> , here are two examples they give : UR5 -- Upper Romeo Five UW456 -- Upper Whiskey Four Fifty Six Yes the FAA handbook does not agree with their ATC Job Order regarding R being Red ( this will be for the <URL> such as those still in Alaska ) . Note : the question asks about airways , the information here is not for tail numbers , navaids , etc. , only airways . See here for how the FAA decides on the designations : <URL>
In the specific case of a flight service receive-only frequency you will be able to hear other aircraft transmitting in that frequency ( you still listen to your com radio , so treat the transmitting part just like any other transmission and wait for a break before you key the mic ) . In the more general case when you have one controller ( or Flight Service Specialist ) working multiple frequencies you call in when the one you 're transmitting on is quiet ( and in the case where you 're receiving Flight Service over a VOR wait for that to be quiet too ) . The controller or FSS will answer you if they 're free . If they 're busy on another frequency or a landline they 'll respond with " Aircraft calling , stand by " ( or if they 're really busy and do n't hear you you wo n't get a response and you 'll try again in a minute ) . It 's not a perfect system , but it works pretty well most of the time .
Summary No . The aspects that are talked about now are not the ones talked about then . My ( hazy ) recollection is of concerns that the A320 lacked a system of cables and pulleys of the sort used by the Wright brothers . Perhaps pilots of the time had more focused concerns but I do n't recall them making the front pages of newspapers . In the 1980s there was discussion of Airbus flight control systems but the discussion focused on factors that were not involved in the most notable A320 crashes in the late '80s and early 90 's . Several Airbus accidents seem to be at least partly the result of pilots lack of familiarity with sophisticated aircraft systems in general rather than with features that are not found in other aircraft . The Airbus control system The main innovations by Airbus were the application to civil airliners of designs that had previously only been used on other types of aircraft . Fly by wire . No mechanical cables , pulleys and associated friction . Sidesticks . To provide clearer view of displays and greater pilot comfort . Flight envelope protection . To prevent excessive inputs stalling or damaging the airframe . Transfer of control Airbus spent some time comparing and investigating support for transfer of control between pilots , including in emergency situations . They investigated pilot preferences for several approaches to this . They revisited this aspect over the years and it has become a point of focus since the AF447 report . However it does n't seem to have been a particular point of controversy in 1987 . Perhaps few people in the 1980s fully realized the extent to which pilots can operate independently and antagonistically in severe emergencies and the degree to which teamwork and communication disappears . There were multiple severe accidents briefly after the entry into service of the A320 You mean these : 26 June 1988 , <URL> . Pilots flew aircraft into trees during unrehearsed demonstration flight at unfamiliar aerodrome after mistaking trees for grass on approach . 14 February 1990 <URL> . Idle/open descent mode engaged and pilots failed to act as aircraft descended into terrain near airport . 20 January 1992 <URL> . Aircraft flown into terrain after autopilot incorrectly put into vertical speed mode and entered numbers appropriate for flight-angle mode . Air Inter had chosen not to equip aircraft with ground proximity warning system . The total number of hull-loss accidents for the 320 does n't seem high compared to other aircraft , but it 's hard to compare the numbers if you do n't take into account fleet size , cycles flown etc. . the A320 seems to have a very aggressive manipulation of the aircraft controls I 'm not sure what you mean by " aggressive manipulation " but that seems an extreme view . The Airbus systems are a progressive development of existing trends . The accidents were largely the result of pilots setting inappropriate modes in systems like the autopilot . The accidents apparently did n't arise because of , for example , the way the control sticks operate . Was there ever any questioning of the Airbus augmented control prior to the introduction to service ? By " augmented control " I guess you mean features like the flight envelope protection that prevents pilot inputs from overloading the airframe . That does n't seem to have been controversial . The only controversy was over two items that had been used in military aircraft but not in commercial passenger aircraft fly by wire sidesticks These do n't seem to have been a large factor in the specific accidents mentioned above . Further reading : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
For me , it seems that air can escape the parachute by this hole That 's the point , air HAS to escape the parachute anyway , and without the hole it would do so laterally and in an uneven fashion , leading to lateral oscillations . The hole allows the air to escape in a controlled location , avoiding undesired and possibly dangerous oscillations . Some ( most personal ones , but for example not the SR22 one ) parachutes have handles that allow the user to deform the parachute : this allows some extra air to escape from the desired side , giving lateral controllability .
end question
start question
Have objective and verified tests been done of the effects of personal electronic devices on a commercial airliner 's operation ?
Yes , they have done a lot of testing , hence why they now finally realize that most electronics are of no harm , and you can use them . The <URL> has a link to a <URL> of their report , as well as a link to the <URL> of the report . In addition to the FAA report , other agencies have weighed in ( <URL> ) . Basically , the rules were instituted in the 1960s , and remained virtually unchanged since then , so it was time to make a change .
Some airlines do offer rear facing seats in business/first class . However , this is more to save space than for increasing safety . For example , British Airways offers a mix of forward and backward facing seats in its business class . <URL> Source : Forbes.com BAC <URL> offered rear-facing seats while it was in service . ( Note the visible cockpit ) . <URL> Source : airliners.net Armed forces of a number of countries use rear facing seats , like the RAF and USN in their C-2 Greyhounds . <URL> " <URL> " by Camera Operator : PH1 ( AW ) Shawn P. Eklund , USN - US Defense Visual Information Center photo DN-SD-03-16988 . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> .
That ' cloudy stuff ' that you say is not ' turbulence ' , but condensed water vapor , the condensation being due to the sudden cooling caused by the adiabatic expansion of the air due to the aerodynamic disturbance caused by a passing blade ( or wing ) . That condensation can also be observed as wakes in landing aircraft , and in stationary revving props . It appears when the sudden expansion takes place in humidity conditions close to saturation .
Yes , the yaw string on the canopy of a glider is there to show you whether or not you are coordinated , especially during turns . It indicates the relative wind , so will be straight unless the glider is slipping or skidding , in which case it will swing to the left or right . For those not familiar with them , here is an image that shows one : According to <URL> , they are also used on other aircraft ( even jet fighters and the U-2 ! ) although they are used in almost every glider . Now , the advantages that it has over an actual instrument installed in the panel are numerous : It is directly in your line of sight while looking outside , so you do n't have to look at the instrument panel to see if you are yawing . It is more sensitive It reacts faster to changes It is cheaper It is lighter It does n't require electricity ( or even an electrical system on the glider ) It costs far less to maintain It is easy to recognize when it fails ( it 's either there or not )
The passengers on Helios 522 were incapacitated or died due to hypoxia . Those masks in the aircraft only have enough oxygen to sustain the passengers while the plane descends to a safer altitude , or about 12 minutes . Helios 522 was on autopilot at 34,000 feet for 2 and a half hours . The autopsy showed that the passengers were alive at the time of the crash , but it could not determine if they were conscious . The aircraft was unpressurised at an altitude as high as the peak of Everest , the crew were incapacitated , so it follows that the passengers would have been as well , despite the fact that the autopsy showed that they were still alive at the time of the crash . Now , let 's suppose that they had survived the crash . They were hypoxic for 2 hours , which means they would have suffered brain damage and would be suffering with the long term effects of that ( Insomnia , amnesia , etc ) as well as injuries sustained from the crash itself .
The ka-50 , like other <URL> designs , use their contra-spinning rotors to cancel out the torque in the same way a traditional helicopter uses it 's tail rotor . A traditional single rotor : <URL> Contra-rotating rotors : <URL> There are a few <URL> of the contra-rotating setup , such as Reduced vibration Reduced likelihood of <URL> Reduced likelihood of anti-torque failure during flight .
This depends on the airline , but to answer your question : Yes , some airlines do have electrical outlets in the cabin . It seems that since the FAA relaxed the rules on portable devices that the airlines are seeing the need to add them to more of their fleet . For example : US Airways has a <URL> which tells which of their aircraft have outlets . There are some in both coach and first class . United has an <URL> whichs shows that a lot of their fleet has electrical outlets and more are coming . There are different types of outlets , and some of them require an adapter to use while others do n't .
Its much safer , you do n't kill the carrier aircraft if you drop away and have a major aircraft malfunction . Gravity gives you the separation you need . If you treat the two aircraft like a formation flight , which it essentially is , its dangerous for the critical aircraft to go belly up , ie blind , to the carrier . In an emergency the first step in formation flying is to ensure separation which the critical aircraft ca n't do because it ca n't see if it 's clear to descend and it may not have the ability to laterally sidestep . Thus , a blind push on the nose could kill both aircrews .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
Turbulence affects aircraft in the same way whether it is banked or not . The difference however would be the end result of the turbulence . For example , if an aircraft were to encounter turbulence strong enough to roll the aircraft 20 degrees to the right , the end results would be a 20 degree bank if starting from level , but 45 degrees of bank if they were already in a 25 degree banked turn . If this were to happen it puts them closer to their stall speed because of the higher bank angle , and if they were already going slow and the airplane is at a low altitude , it could be a problem . Fortunately , most turbulence strong enough to cause this while at low altitude is caused by the wake turbulence of other aircraft or microbursts , and we have pretty good procedures in place to keep it from being a problem these days . If they are n't at a low altitude it matters even less because there is altitude for the aircraft to recover even if it does get into an unusual attitude .
The ignition requirements are pretty straight-forward : <URL> ( a ) Each battery ignition system must be supplemented by a generator that is automatically available as an alternate source of electrical energy to allow continued engine operation if any battery becomes depleted . ( b ) The capacity of batteries and generators must be large enough to meet the simultaneous demands of the engine ignition system and the greatest demands of any electrical system components that draw from the same source . ( c ) The design of the engine ignition system must account for -- ( 1 ) The condition of an inoperative generator ; ( 2 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator running at its normal operating speed ; and ( 3 ) The condition of a completely depleted battery with the generator operating at idling speed , if there is only one battery . ( d ) There must be means to warn appropriate crewmembers if malfunctioning of any part of the electrical system is causing the continuous discharge of any battery used for engine ignition . ( e ) Each turbine engine ignition system must be independent of any electrical circuit that is not used for assisting , controlling , or analyzing the operation of that system . ( f ) In addition , for commuter category airplanes , each turbine engine ignition system must be an essential electrical load .
I have not seen any studies on this , nor would I expect to as Avgas is such a niche product and the price of it is not heavily dependent on the price of the underlying fuel itself . If you look at <URL> the reason avgas is so expensive is that it has special requirements for making it , storing and transporting it and so little is produced that there 's no economy of scale . In any case your question is based on the premise that gasoline production is going to decrease . Even with the rise of electric cars most oil companies are n't forecasting a drop in gasoline demand until the 2030s , maybe even the 2040s as the increase in demand for new cars will oustrip the number of electic cars for some time . As a decline in consumption does not guarantee a price rise , any forecasts of this kind would be premature , and not likely to be reliable .
Disclaimer : I borrowed most of this answer from <URL> , but since you did not find it , I reproduce it here . If you found it but is was incomprehensible , please let me know and I try to improve it . Wind just carries the aircraft with it . For the aircraft , everything feels the same , just the ground passes by at the sum of wind and airspeed . The tricky part of the question is about the best airspeed for maximum range with wind . Best range means you cover the most distance while the wind is carrying the plane with it . If you have a headwind , the longer you stay aloft , the more you are carried back , so you better hurry up . With a tailwind , it helps to slow down because now the wind is helping you to cover even more distance . Graphical solution But how much ? We need to pick that particular speed where the change in fuel consumption just balances the change in speed over ground . I always found that easier to explain with gliders , and there you can really observe which polar point is best . Just picture yourself as an observer on the ground who sees the plane fly by in the distance . If you plot a line with the combination of positions and altitude , there must be one flight speed that produces a line where the flight path angle is the shallowest . This is the desired optimum . That has only little to do with optimum L/D - this is just one other point you can find with a sink speed polar . And it happens to be the point for best glide in still air . But there is so much more that humble polar will tell you , if you look at it the right way . With powered aircraft you need to pick the polar point where your fuel flow is lowest for the given speed over ground . Basically , you fly like the glider and add enough power to stay at the same altitude . That is all the difference . Please look at the plot below which shows airspeed on the X axis and sink speed on the Y axis . The solution is graphical : You start on the X-axis at the point which corresponds to the wind speed and put a tangent on the sink speed graph . Where the tangent touches the sink polar ( blue line ) , the plane flies at the best L/D for that given wind speed . Move the starting point to positive speeds for headwind and to negative speeds ( not shown here ) for tailwind . If the term " best L/D " is already reserved in your mind , please read this as the " best polar point " . It is really the same . Analytical solution For powered flight things become more tricky , because thrust changes with speed . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Now for fuel flow : This goes up and down with the power output of the engine . Again a simplification , but it helps to get to grips with the problem and gives useful results . This lets us re-formulate the problem as : At what airspeed do I have the best ratio between power and ground speed ? Mathematically , we want to fly with $ \ frac { P } { v_w + v } $ at the lowest possible value . $ P$ is the power , $ v_w $ is the wind speed and $ v $ the airspeed . To express the thrust behavior over speed , I break P up into a product of a constant $ K_S $ , the throttle setting $ \ delta $ and the speed like this : $ K_S \ cdot \ delta \ cdot v \ cdot v ^ { n_v } $ . Here is the general solution , pasted as a PNG to save me all the typing in the editor : Please note that implicitly the lift coefficient is on both sides of the equation . To solve it , you need to do it recursively , until speed and lift coefficient match . I took this form because of the similarity to the general form at no wind which can be found in many performance books . Now I have put the results into a plot . In order to eliminate the aircraft-specific parameters , it shows the ratio of $ c_L $ with wind over $ c_L $ without wind . The plot is metric , but will work for all units if you use the same units for wind speed and air speed . To give an example for the application of the correction factor : If you are flying in a 20 m/s headwind and your best range speed at still wind is 50 m/s ( approx 97 kts ) , the $ c_L $ needs to be 70 % of the $ c_L $ at still wind for piston-powered aircraft . This makes your corrected airspeed 60 m/s ( v is proportional to $ \ sqrt { c_L } $ ) , and now the recursive nature of the formula rear
Pretty much the only thing that is going to change season to season is the weather . Depending on where you are , there may be more aircraft traffic around a particular time of year , but I ca n't answer that for sure . Obviously , the further from the equator , the more extreme the seasons . If you are close to the equator , it probably does n't matter what time of year you start , since the weather is pretty much the same year-round . If you are not at the equator , you need to consider the pros and cons of each weather season . Additionally , at extremes from the equator ( near the poles ) , summer and winter months have extremely long days and long nights , respectively , which can make night and day flying difficult . In the winter , the aircraft has better performance ( airplanes like colder weather ) . However : You have to deal with ice and snow , which is especially dangerous to light airplanes , which are often not as prepared to deal with them . It is dangerous in some degree to all airplanes You have to be careful of low temperatures when starting the airplane before you take off In the summer , the aircraft has worse performance ( they do n't like hot weather ) . Many small airplanes have poor airflow inside the cockpit , which means they can get rather hot ( it is easier to run a heater inside a small cockpit than cool it ) You have to be more careful to avoid overheating the engine Some places may form thunderstorms constantly In the rainy season , which is often in the spring , you will have degraded performance . Even if it is not rainy , the air will likely be more humid , which decreases aircraft performance Depending on your latitude , other weather conditions may be more prevelant at a certain time of year ( hurricanes/cyclones , high winds , tornados , sudden storms ) . <URL> discusses wind differences based on season and latitude . In particular , page 7 of the document shows that summer months had slightly stronger winds at southern latitudes ( southern hemisphere ) , and winter months had significantly stronger winds at northern latitudes . Some geographical areas may have changes in prevailing wind directions , which could also affect training depending on routes and runways too . TL ; DR : It 's mainly a weather concern , which can affect your comfort ( temperature inside , possibly air turbulence ) , aircraft performance , as well as grounding weather . Additionally , the most obvious concern is also length of the day - summer months will have more daylight , a particular concern if you can only fly in VFR conditions/do not hold a night rating .
A few thoughts : The British Airways Concordes only operated <URL> on the London Heathrow - New York JFK route . This implies this is the route under the most competition . There has been enough pressure on this route even after the demise of the Concorde for several companies ( as well as BA ) to try business-only services on this route . By experience , changing flights is never quick in the US since you need to go through customs and add time margin to ensure you make the connection ( Think three hours connection time on the ground ) . I think even before the current security state you 'd rather have taken a direct flight than change from a Concorde to a domestic flight if possible . I do n't think the charter destinations would have caused much impact on other airline operations .
The pulse jet engine works because it uses the dynamic pressure of air for compression . Consequently , it needs speed to work well . If the pulse jet is on the ground , it is not easy to start - it needs to be fed with compressed air , and once it runs ( it can run even when not moving because the oscillating pressure wave inside the tube will compress the inflowing air ) , it develops litte thrust . Thrust will go up with airspeed , so you need additional thrust sources for initial acceleration and take-off . In case of the V-1 , this was done by a steam catapult or by air-launching the device . Note that the V-1 was accelerated to 370 km/h on a 45 m long catapult which means more than 100 m/s ² ( 10g ) average acceleration . Most of the development work went into making the airframe withstand this acceleration . A modern design would need additional engines as well , and once those are included , the rationale for pulse jets becomes very weak . They make sense if you have an air-launched , disposable application , such as long-range air-to-air missiles . This is a niche in which their higher-speed cousins , the ramjets , <URL> . Pros : Very easy to build , very light . Runs and produces some thrust when at rest ( as opposed to ramjets ) . Cons : Thrust grows with flight speed . This can be seen as a pro , but normally requires additional means of acceleration . Therefore listed as contra here . Low fuel efficiency . The fuel energy is converted to other forms of energy : Just listen to the videos of <URL> to get an idea . High levels of vibration due to the intermittent operation . When the <URL> was tried out with <URL> , the aircraft experienced unacceptable vibration . Need heat-resistant materials . The central part will get very hot in operation , so at least nickel-chrome stainless steel is needed if air cooling is insufficient . Can not go supersonic . For this , there are <URL> . EDIT : NACA tested the As 014 pulse jet and wrote a <URL> , from which the performance data depicted below is taken : It seems that <URL> has improved the pulse jet design a lot : He needs no compressed air for starting and makes clever use of surrounding cold air to increase mass flow and keep material temperatures down .
Answer based on information found on-line . Related documentation : USAF <URL> C-130T <URL> Lockheed <URL> KC-130 <URL> KC-130J <URL> C-130 <URL> C-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) The KC-130 Hercules is the tanker variant of the C-130 Hercules . The cargo opening consists of a door , and a ramp which can be operated separately . The door is opened by rotating up and inwards the top panel . The ramp is opened by rotating down and outwards the lower panel ( source : <URL> ) KC-130 / C-130 have a <URL> at low speed . From the the C-130 flight manual : Door and loading ramp are operated at a speed of 150 KIAS , with flaps down at 50 % . Same conditions for flying with door and/or loading ramp open . Low speed adjustments : Reducing speed from 300 kt to 150 kt requires nose up trimming . The center of gravity may be adjusted by ballasting fuel in the tanks ( refueling tank and aircraft tanks ) . Opening the ramp will change the aerodynamic shape of the aircraft : The ramp will not be moved past the horizontal position ( only need for full down position is to load cargo on the ground ) . Moves the nose down . Balanced by some trim accordingly . If loads are dropped ( pallets , paratroopers ) or fuel is delivered , the center of gravity will roll back , with a significant nose-down tendency , and trimming will be required . Opening the door will be less of an issue as seen on the image below : The aircraft is near level . Above : KC-130J Hercules ( source : <URL> ) . Note that the attitude is not so far from level , in spite the door is open .
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
General Each person leaving the country must be authorized to return to the US . ( ie . they are a US citizen or their visa allows them to leave and return to the US . ) Ensure that you have all required paperwork Pilot license Medical Aircraft Registration The aircraft must have a current <URL> . Ensure that the aircraft is properly equipped 12 " Registration Numbers Transponder Before Leaving the US File eAPIS <URL> is required to be filed at least 60 minutes prior to your departure . Other third party services ( ie . <URL> , etc. ) may make this easier if you do it a lot . File an international flight plan May be an instrument or a defence VFR flight plan Before Returning to the US File eAPIS ( see above ) File a flight plan ( see above ) Notify customs and obtain permission at least one hour prior to landing in the US . Record the initials of the customs officer that you spoke to just in case they misplace your notification . Note that if you are coming from locations " south of the US " ( for the specific definition , see <URL> ) , you must stop at the <URL> closest to your point of border crossing to clear customs ( unless you have an overflight permit ) . Upon Arrival in the US You must land at an <URL> . Report immediately to the designated customs location Do not allow anybody or anything to leave/enter the aircraft until the customs official gives your permission The only exception that I know of to this are the South Florida airports where you are expected to take all people and belongings into the customs facility for inspection . Discard any international garbage in the approved manner . Provide required paperwork A <URL> for each arriving family Wait for customs to specifically tell you that you are cleared before you attempt to leave . Notes This is not all-encompassing , please help add to and expand this list so that others may learn from our experience ! A TON of useful information is made available by the FAA in the <URL> .
The folding wingtips are found mostly in naval aviation . The reason is the space constraint inside the hangar of the aircraft carrier . <URL> " <URL> " by U.S. Navy Photo by Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class John P. Curtis . As can be seen from the photo , folding the wings offers the only practical way of fitting fighter aircraft inside the cramped hangar space . For example , the F/A -18 C/D had a wing span of 11.43 m ; this was reduced to 8.38 m with the wings folded , a 26 % reduction . However , the price to pay is increase in complexity , weight , price and increased maintenance . The figure shows the wing folding mechanism of a F 18 . <URL> Source : polepositionimagery.com.au The major drawbacks of folding wings are , The increased weight and complexity due to the folding mechanism . The folding mechanism takes time to operate and there are safety concerns if they get stuck in a position . The folding of wings limits the fuel capacity and as a result , the range of the aircraft , as fuel is usually not carried on the folding part of the wings . <URL> Source : zarco-macross . wikidot.com As can be seen , the F/A does n't carry fuel in the folding part of the wing . In fact , after the airlines did n't take up its folding concept in 777 , Boeing added fuel tanks to that area and increased range of 777-200/300 . There has previously been no reason for airliners to fold their wings , as airports offered enough space for operations and ground movement . However , as the size of aircraft and their aspect ratios grow ( to reduce drag ) , designers are finding it more and more difficult to keep the wingspan below the 80m ' box ' which airlines believe is the maximum they can cope up economically . The first major program to be affected by this limitation was the A380 , which limited the wingspan of the aircraft to less than 80m and reduced its aspect ratio . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> ( clem AT tillier.net ) - Original Work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.5 via <URL> . Basically , Boeing is facing the same problem . The proposed 777x is the aircraft with largest wingspan Boeing has ever produced . However , in case of A380 , Airbus managed to reduce induced drag through the use of wingtip fences , among other design decisions . 777x is expected to have a raked wingtip , which is not as space effective as the wingtip fence . <URL> Source : Flightglobal.com As a result , Boeing is considering folding wingtips . However , there are important differences between the original plan in 777 and the proposed plan in 777x . In the original plan , Boeing proposed to fold 21 ' of the wingtip . However , the new plans call for folding only 10 ' . <URL> Original Wing folding plan in Boeing 777 . Source : www.seattletimes.com <URL> Image : Boeing As can be seen from the figure , the folding plan is much more modest . This is not expected to have the drawbacks associated with the the original plan , as , The end of the wing will not house controls As the size of the wing to be folded is smaller , the folding mechanism will not be as heavy and complicated . That part probably not carry fuel Advances in actuation systems since the 777 will reduce the weight penalty To put things into perspective , the 747-400 winglets were 6 ' feet tall . Airlines have already placed orders for 777x and it is their operational record that will determine if other aviation manufacturers ( Airbus , that is . ) will follow suit .
end question
start question
What are the effects of communicating on VHF/UHF on a RMI 's ADF needle ?
NDBs in the U.S. transmit between 90 kHz and 535 kHz , and VHF is between 108 and 137 MHz . Of the VHF frequencies , the nav/com is only capable of transmitting between 118 MHz and 137 . So aside from electromagnet interference , no VHF radio should transmit on a frequency that he ADF receives .
Oxygen in passenger masks is either generated by oxygen generator or released from pressurized container via reduction valve . In either case it is released at fixed rate . But human breath is discontinous . So the bag acts as a buffer . You inhale the oxygen accumulated in it and then it slowly refills while you are exhaling .
Wind affects your flight path angle by affecting how far you travel while you 're descending . With no thrust from the engine an airplane is falling out of the sky at a roughly constant rate of descent . The wind direction affects the groundspeed , and thus the distance covered between when the engine failed &amp; when the aircraft hits the ground . This is more directly observable from outside the airplane . Consider these 4 scenarios on a post-it note : The airplane has lost its engine , and the pilot is flying at best-glide airspeed while holding a constant magnetic heading ( making no wind corrections ) : <URL> No Wind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( about 45 degrees in my drawing ) , and travels in a straight line over the ground ( the " ground track " ) while doing so . Headwind The aircraft descends along a steeper glide path ( about 60 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate the headwind is slowing its progress over the ground . Since it 's a direct headwind ( right on the nose ) the ground track is still straight . Tailwind The aircraft descends along a shallower glide path ( about 30 degrees in my drawing ) , because while it 's still descending at the same rate it has a tailwind , which is making it move faster over the ground . Since it 's a direct tailwind the ground track is still straight here too . Crosswind The aircraft descends along the no-wind glide path ( because it has neither a headwind nor a tailwind ) , but the crosswind pushes the ground track ( in this case into the inconveniently-placed tree ) . Your endurance ( time aloft ) will be similarly unaffected : If you 've set the aircraft up at its optimum glide angle-of-attack ( best glide airspeed ) the descent rate is pretty much the same regardless of whether you have a headwind , tailwind , or crosswind . You will fall the same distance in the same amount of time , it 's just a matter of how far you travel while you 're falling ( which determines where you land ) . You can test this for yourself in an airplane by doing engine-out drills : Line up with a headwind , pull the throttle out , and pitch for the aircraft 's best glide speed . Note your vertical speed ( rate of descent ) , and then repeat the test in the opposite direction ( tailwind ) or at 90 degrees to your original course ( direct crosswind ) : The vertical speed will be effectively the same .
The VFR on top clearance is often given with a block of altitudes . Such as this from the reference document " Maintain VFR-on-top at or between six thousand and one zero thousand . " With this clearance the pilot can fly any altitude they want within this block of altitudes without having to contact ATC for further clearance . This flexibility can be useful with the conditions are such that the clouds come and go as you fly along . So if you are cruising along at 6500 and encounter a cloud and need to climb to 8500 to maintain clearance you just do it . No need to contact ATC and wait for them to ensure they can clear you higher while the clouds keeps getting bigger and bigger in the windshield . Even if there are not cloud issues , the ability to change altitudes may be useful in seeking an altitude with more favorable winds .
Assuming this is the standard inclined plane task from physics textbook , as <URL> for instance , the acceleration is $ a = g \ cdot \ sin ( \ theta ) $ where $ a $ is acceleration , $ g $ is the free fall acceleration ( 9.8 m/s ^ 2 ) and $ \ theta $ is the pitch angle down ( 0 assuming horizontal ) . This equation applies does not take the air resistance into consideration so would only apply to relatively slow speeds . Interestingly , under these conditions the acceleration does not depend on the mass of the plane . The equation should also apply for the positive pitch angles , but the acceleration would be negative in this case ( slowing down ) .
No the paddle acts as an inverted wing and pushes air up , this in turn will push the glider up . Even with ground effect a non-powered glider can not maintain height and speed .
Aerobatic flight is " an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . " According to the <URL> , no person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight : Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; Over an open air assembly of persons ; Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Aerobatic flight is sometimes considered to be flight with more than 30 degrees pitch or more than 60 degrees bank . This is incorrect . It applies to wearing a parachute . ( FAR 91.307 ) A normal category aircraft is certified for the following " non-acrobatic " operation : Stalls , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 ° . A utility category aircraft is certified for spins ( if approved for plane ) , lazy eights , chandelles , and steep turns , or similar manoeuvres , in which the angle of bank is more than 60 degrees but not more than 90 degrees . An acrobatic category aircraft is required for other aerobatics .
The document you cite actually goes on to explain what the procedure is for calculators , and when testing centers can prevent you from using your own ( you 'll be provided a loaner ) : Testing centers may provide a calculator to you and/or deny use of your personal calculator based on the following limitations : a. Prior to , and upon completion of the test , while in the presence of the Unit Member ( formerly referred to as proctor ) , you must actuate the ON/OFF switch and perform any other function that ensures erasure of any data stored in memory circuits . b . The use of electronic calculators incorporating permanent or continuous type memory circuits without erasure capability is prohibited . The Unit Member may refuse the use of your calculator when unable to determine the calculator 's erasure capability . [ ... ] Basically , you can bring a graphing calculator and wipe it , but unless the center is able to confirm that you 've removed all stored memory , they 're probably just gon na say " nah " and hand you a basic calculator . There 's a pretty good chance that your graphing calculator falls under the " permanent or continuous type memory circuits " category anyway .
Ideally , fiber composites are bonded and connected by a <URL> . The scarf ratio is determined by the ratio of <URL> and the shear strength of the resin . If your fiber takes 3000 N/mm ² , the resin transmits 20 N/mm ² and the fiber content is 60 % , the ratio is 1:90 , so a 1 mm thick composite layer would need to be joined over a length of 90 mm . In reality , such a ratio is impractical to achieve , so lap joints are used when accepted by the certification authorities . This is the case for for composite gliders , where you will find both scarf and lap joints . In the early days of powered composite aircraft , fiber composites were seen with the experience of aluminium in mind , and treated with the same methods . Therefore , the <URL> and its contemporaries had to use rivet joints throughout the structure . The idea was that by riveting the airframe could be more easily disassembled for inspection and repairs . Riveting carbon fiber composites is quite problematic : You need to use expensive titanium fasteners because aluminium rivets would quickly corrode when in electrical contact to the electrochemically much nobler carbon fibers . Drilling and countersinking holes cuts the very fibers which you try to connect , so you have to double up on wall thickness what is destroyed by the riveting . But the FAA still insisted on rivets - even stringers on panels were riveted , when bonding would had been the most sensible solution . Aircraft engineers have an expression for composites that are treated like metal : Black Aluminum . The LearFan was pure Black Aluminum . Many of the engineers in this project ended up with Beech when they produced the <URL> , so many of the same techniques were transferred as well . At least , the Starship had a fuselage shell which was laid up on a mandrill and then cut right aft of the cockpit section to get the mandrill out . The splicing of the two fuselage sections was then done by a tapered lap joint ; if you want , a practical way of making a not-quite scarf joint . Today we have a new generation of engineers who slowly accept that the nature of composite structures requires their own methods of treatment . But you will still find riveted joints even in modern composites structures . Old habits are hard to break .
Hotel mode is a feature on ATR 42/72 turboprops replacing an APU by locking the right-hand # 2 engine ( PW100 ) with a ' propeller brake ' while allowing the turbine , and therefore also the generator , to run , providing electrical power and bleed air . ATR describes this as the following : The propeller brake is fitted on a countershaft on the RH engine reduction gearbox in order to stop the propeller ( and the power turbine ) HP ( High Pressure ) spool drives the DC generator . Bleed pressure is available downstream the HP compressor and supplies both packs . This picture should give you sort-of an idea of how it works : <URL> If I gather correctly , the propeller drive shaft is locked , and the ( HP ) compressor shaft is free to run . Here 's another pic of a PW100 engine : Hotel Mode seems to be generally disliked for a number of reasons : It 's very loud , especially if you 're lifting baggage next to it It consumes a lot of fuel , since you 're running a full engine . It could be dangerous if the propeller brake is in poor condition and suddenly loses its grip . This configuration is rare , if not unique . The rival Dash-8 has a separate APU , as does the Saab 2000 . It was an optional feature on the Fokker 50 . The smaller Jetstream 41 only has a battery . Source : <URL> .
They use the airport power . The airport and its important equipment have backup power and/or a dedicated power plant ( which itself will have backup plans ) . This is what the FAA says : The FAA recognizes the need to have a reliable power source to operate NAVAIDs , even during utility power outages . Order 6030.20 establishes Continuous Power Airports ( CPAs ) that provide continuous operations in the event of an area-wide utility failure . Backup power to designated runways at these airports must be able to supply power for at least 4 hours for runway lighting as well as navigation , landing and communication equipment . In addition , FAA policy also requires that power systems used for support of Category ( CAT ) II and CAT-III operations must be capable of transferring to an alternate source within one second . Source : <URL> Basically it 's to avoid having to <URL> . Select airports and runways have to be able to operate . ICAO recommends the same thing and lists the criteria airports need to meet in Annex 14 , section 8.1 Secondary power supply . For example : 8.1.5 Recommendation . -- Requirements for a secondary power supply should be met by either of the following : -- independent public power , which is a source of power supplying the aerodrome service from a substation other than the normal substation through a transmission line following a route different from the normal power supply route and such that the possibility of a simultaneous failure of the normal and independent public power supplies is extremely remote ; or -- standby power unit ( s ) , which are engine generators , batteries , etc. , from which electric power can be obtained . For navaids in general that are not within an airport , then ICAO Annex 10 , Volume I , Part I , Chapter 2 handles the recommendations .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
The trim tab is like a control surface for the control surface . By changing camber at the rear end of the control surface , it creates a local force which changes the balance of forces such that the force-free deflection angle ( sometimes called auswehwinkel after the German word for this angle ) is shifted in a direction opposite to the deflection of the tab . You could do the same with springs along the control rods , or a mass somewhere which pulls the control surface to the same force-free angle . But when speed changes , so do the aerodynamic forces , and your force-free angle will change . The forces caused by the tab change with airspeed , so the force-free angle set by a tab is unaffected by speed . Do n't confuse a trim tab with a Flettner tab : The trim tab stays at the same angle with varying control deflection , while the Flettner tab will move in opposite direction to reduce the stick forces caused by the deflection of the control surface . By setting the zero-deflection position of a Flettner tab , it can in parallel work like a trim tab and shift the zero-force deflection angle to the desired point . Small aircraft like the Diamond Katana even have an anti-Flettner , where the tab is moving in the same direction as the control surface in order to increase stick forces . This is needed to fulfill certification requirements . In practice , a combination of both springs and tabs is used to set the desired control forces and their gradient over speed .
NDBs in the U.S. transmit between 90 kHz and 535 kHz , and VHF is between 108 and 137 MHz . Of the VHF frequencies , the nav/com is only capable of transmitting between 118 MHz and 137 . So aside from electromagnet interference , no VHF radio should transmit on a frequency that he ADF receives .
There are actually quite a few reasons to fly an instrument approach , especially one with vertical guidance ( like an ILS ) , even if the weather does n't require it : It serves as a backup to the visual approach . There are various visual illusions that can cause a pilot to fly an approach too high or too low and monitoring the vertical guidance can help to mitigate those . It helps to ensure that you land on the correct runway , and even at the correct airport . ( Unlike <URL> . ) ATC uses it when pilots do not have the airport or runway in sight . This happens quite frequently at large airports where they have to line many aircraft up on final . The last guy is a long distance from the airport so may not be able to see it but can fly the approach . It can be useful if it is hazy or the sun is making it hard for the pilots to find the airport . Some parallel runways are approved for simultaneous approaches ( as is the case at Narita for runways 34L &amp; 34R ) so ATC will clear two airplanes for the respective ILS 's . This keeps them tracking the centerline of the approach instead of maneuvering visually where they might drift over into the way of the other airplane . Flying the approach on the autopilot leaves more time for the pilot to focus on other things and possibly catch something that might have been missed while hand flying a visual approach . Sometimes instrument approaches are used for noise abatement reasons . If I had to guess about the particular approach that you mention , I would say that it is probably company SOP ( Standard Operating Procedures ) to fly the ILS whenever possible for the safety benefits , and that Narita allows simultaneous parallel landings to the two runways so ATC would require it as well .
As <URL> you do n't necessarily pull a flap on airplane seatbelts -- Sometimes ( particularly in newer light GA planes from the 1990s and on ) you push a button just like you do in a car , other times it 's the " utility buckle " ( flap buckle ) - sometimes with a shoulder harness attach peg or other attach mechanism , and sometimes you 'll find rotary buckles , where you turn a knob to release the belt ( particularly common in aerobatic aircraft , with 4-point or 5-point restraints ) . I 've attached a little gallery of belt types below ( and this is n't even complete - military aircraft hafe some downright funky buckles ! ) . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> This variety is why the FAA requires flight crew to instruct passengers in the operation of the seat belts . So , why are the belts in airplanes different ? And why are there so many types ? Each belt is good at something different , and each belt has its own set of drawbacks . The automotive style push-button belt is very familiar to infrequent flyers . Most people who are going to get on a plane have been in a car ( they probably rode in one to the airport ) , so familiarity with automotive-style seatbelts can generally be assumed . This is great when you take someone for a flight who is n't a frequent airline passenger . The drawback to the automotive belt is it 's not as easy for rescuers to operate , and the push-button mechanism can jam - particularly in fires where the plastic shell can melt/fuse ( in cars the belts are often cut by rescuers because it 's easier/faster than dealing with the button ) . If your passengers are injured in an emergency and ca n't operate the belt it may be difficult for you to locate and press the button to assist in evacuation . The " utility buckle " flap belt is easy for rescuers &amp; cabin crew to operate . The exact opposite of the push-button belt 's chief drawback : It 's really easy for cabin crew or rescurers to find a utility buckle on a belt by feel and yank the flap to release it ( try it some time : Buckle someone into an airplane seat , close your eyes , and find/release the buckle . The hardest part is finding the belt if they 're wearing bulky clothes ) . It 's also relatively hard to jam a utility buckle , and relatively easy to inspect them to determine if they 're damaged . The drawback to the utility buckle is that not everyone has been on an airplane ( or in a really old car that uses them ) , so they might not be familiar with " Lift the flap to release the belt " , and in a panic situation it may take them a few seconds to remember what to do . The rotary buckle is unique and kind of awesome for what it 's built for . Rotary buckles make it easy to attach 4 or 5 point restraints , and to release all or part of them quickly . ( The buckle shown in the photos is single-function - turn to release - but dual-function buckles exist where you can press the button in the center of the buckle to release the shoulder straps , or turn the knob to release everything . ) The big drawbacks to rotary buckles are their novelty : On the ground you usually only find them on 5-point racing harnesses , and in the air they 're pretty uncommon too ( mainly aerobatic aircraft as I mentioned earlier ) . They 're probably the last type of buckle a passenger or rescuer would expect to have to deal with , and particularly with the dual-action buttons they can present a challenge in a panic egress ( passengers will hit the button and release the shoulder harnesses , but they 're still restrained by the lower portion of the belt - this can cost precious time for them to realize they have to turn the knob ) .
Disclaimer : I borrowed most of this answer from <URL> , but since you did not find it , I reproduce it here . If you found it but is was incomprehensible , please let me know and I try to improve it . Wind just carries the aircraft with it . For the aircraft , everything feels the same , just the ground passes by at the sum of wind and airspeed . The tricky part of the question is about the best airspeed for maximum range with wind . Best range means you cover the most distance while the wind is carrying the plane with it . If you have a headwind , the longer you stay aloft , the more you are carried back , so you better hurry up . With a tailwind , it helps to slow down because now the wind is helping you to cover even more distance . Graphical solution But how much ? We need to pick that particular speed where the change in fuel consumption just balances the change in speed over ground . I always found that easier to explain with gliders , and there you can really observe which polar point is best . Just picture yourself as an observer on the ground who sees the plane fly by in the distance . If you plot a line with the combination of positions and altitude , there must be one flight speed that produces a line where the flight path angle is the shallowest . This is the desired optimum . That has only little to do with optimum L/D - this is just one other point you can find with a sink speed polar . And it happens to be the point for best glide in still air . But there is so much more that humble polar will tell you , if you look at it the right way . With powered aircraft you need to pick the polar point where your fuel flow is lowest for the given speed over ground . Basically , you fly like the glider and add enough power to stay at the same altitude . That is all the difference . Please look at the plot below which shows airspeed on the X axis and sink speed on the Y axis . The solution is graphical : You start on the X-axis at the point which corresponds to the wind speed and put a tangent on the sink speed graph . Where the tangent touches the sink polar ( blue line ) , the plane flies at the best L/D for that given wind speed . Move the starting point to positive speeds for headwind and to negative speeds ( not shown here ) for tailwind . If the term " best L/D " is already reserved in your mind , please read this as the " best polar point " . It is really the same . Analytical solution For powered flight things become more tricky , because thrust changes with speed . To simplify things , we can say that thrust changes over speed in proportion to the expression $ v ^ { n_v } $ where $ n_v $ is a constant which depends on engine type . Piston aircraft have constant power output , and thrust is inverse with speed over the speed range of acceptable propeller efficiencies , hence $ n_v $ becomes -1 for piston aircraft . Turboprops make some use of ram pressure , so they profit a little from flying faster , but not much . Their $ n_v $ is -0.8 to -0.6 . Turbofans are better in utilizing ram pressure , and their $ n_v $ is -0.5 to -0.2 . The higher the bypass ratio , the more negative their $ n_v $ becomes . Jets ( think J-79 or even the old Jumo-004 ) have constant thrust over speed , at least in subsonic flow . Their $ n_v $ is approximately 0 . Positive values of $ n_v $ can be found with ramjets - they develop more thrust the faster they move through the air . Now for fuel flow : This goes up and down with the power output of the engine . Again a simplification , but it helps to get to grips with the problem and gives useful results . This lets us re-formulate the problem as : At what airspeed do I have the best ratio between power and ground speed ? Mathematically , we want to fly with $ \ frac { P } { v_w + v } $ at the lowest possible value . $ P$ is the power , $ v_w $ is the wind speed and $ v $ the airspeed . To express the thrust behavior over speed , I break P up into a product of a constant $ K_S $ , the throttle setting $ \ delta $ and the speed like this : $ K_S \ cdot \ delta \ cdot v \ cdot v ^ { n_v } $ . Here is the general solution , pasted as a PNG to save me all the typing in the editor : Please note that implicitly the lift coefficient is on both sides of the equation . To solve it , you need to do it recursively , until speed and lift coefficient match . I took this form because of the similarity to the general form at no wind which can be found in many performance books . Now I have put the results into a plot . In order to eliminate the aircraft-specific parameters , it shows the ratio of $ c_L $ with wind over $ c_L $ without wind . The plot is metric , but will work for all units if you use the same units for wind speed and air speed . To give an example for the application of the correction factor : If you are flying in a 20 m/s headwind and your best range speed at still wind is 50 m/s ( approx 97 kts ) , the $ c_L $ needs to be 70 % of the $ c_L $ at still wind for piston-powered aircraft . This makes your corrected airspeed 60 m/s ( v is proportional to $ \ sqrt { c_L } $ ) , and now the recursive nature of the formula rear
The airspace around the world is divided into sectors within a <URL> ( FIR ) / Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) / <URL> ( ACC ) , which range from very small and tight airspace pieces to larger combinations or enroute sectors . Enroute sectors will usually be larger than <URL> ( TMA ) . During peak-hours , these sectors will be handled by one controller responsible for each sector . If capacity and traffic flow permit , these sectors can be combined and two sectors will be handled by the same controller . Below is a picture of the Paderborn Lower Sector , ranging from GND to FL135 . This is usually a stand-alone sector which only covers approaches to Paderborn ( EDLP ) and Dortmund Airports ( EDLW ) . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) If traffic permits , the adjacent sector Hamm Lower from GND to FL115 , handling arrivals and departures to Münster ( EDDG ) , will be handed over to the controller responsible for Paderborn Lower . This can also be done vice-versa , where the Hamm Lower controller becomes responsible for the Paderborn Lower sector . ( Image Source : Own Work - Author : SentryRaven ) TMA controllers not only handle IFR aircraft approaching or departing from airfields within their sector , but also any enroute traffic crossing the sector , VFR traffic requesting to cross airspaces which require prior permission and other tasks . <URL> , controllers take breaks between working their sectors and sometimes often switch sectors during a shift . A controller working Paderborn Lower during the beginning of his shift can end up working Hamm Lower towards the end of his shift with adequate breaks in between their sessions . See this related question : <URL>
The AOPA 's <URL> has quite a few resources that I like to review from time to time , including some great videos with commentary on exceptional cases . <URL> <URL> <URL> I do exactly what you are doing , during training and still after , but I 'd like to also say that you should n't narrow yourself to GA crashes , a lot of what happens commercially can be applied to GA , and usually with commercial accidents there is a lot more data and analysis available to work with . In that regard , I like to watch shows on Youtube like <URL> , or on TV like <URL> <URL> on individual crashes where you can search by certain criteria like aircraft type , states , type of flight , or even some specific keywords like " Vacuum Failure " . Just do n't limit yourself to looking at things like " Pilot Error " , pilot error is a broad category of crashes that is usually used to describe the pilot doing something wrong in the air , but a lot of crashes are " pilot error " in that the pilot could have broke the accident chain much earlier in the flight . Read as many as you can , regardless of the cause . For example an accident where the aircraft breaks up in flight may not be attributed to pilot error , but its good to know what lead to the break up and what could have been prevented .
There are at least three FARs that apply ( maybe more ? ) . First , " aerobatics " as defined in <URL> seems to include spinning : For the purposes of this section , aerobatic flight means an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft 's attitude , an abnormal attitude , or abnormal acceleration , not necessary for normal flight . That means the general restrictions in 91.303 would apply : No person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight -- ( a ) Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement ; ( b ) Over an open air assembly of persons ; ( c ) Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B , Class C , Class D , or Class E airspace designated for an airport ; ( d ) Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway ; ( e ) Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface ; or ( f ) When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles . Second , spinning an aircraft not approved for spinning in the POH would be a violation of <URL> : § 91.9 Civil aircraft flight manual , marking , and placard requirements . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry . Finally , <URL> would also prohibit spinning a non-certificated aircraft because it 's a ' catch-all ' regulation : § 91.13 Careless or reckless operation . ( a ) Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation . No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another . But spinning itself is absolutely legal and is required for a flight instructor rating as described in <URL> EDIT : there 's also a requirement in <URL> that if non-crewmembers are on board then parachutes are required for maneuvers with ' extreme ' bank or pitch , unless the flight is a test or training flight : ( c ) Unless each occupant of the aircraft is wearing an approved parachute , no pilot of a civil aircraft carrying any person ( other than a crewmember ) may execute any intentional maneuver that exceeds -- A bank of 60 degrees relative to the horizon ; or A nose-up or nose-down attitude of 30 degrees relative to the horizon . ( d ) Paragraph ( c ) of this section does not apply to -- Flight tests for pilot certification or rating ; or Spins and other flight maneuvers required by the regulations for any certificate or rating when given by -- ( i ) A certificated flight instructor ; or ( ii ) An airline transport pilot instructing in accordance with § 61.67 of this chapter .
end question
start question
What are the minimum requirements for passing medical for PPL ?
The UK aviation medical standards are <URL> , so I assume you could go to any doctor with that information for a checkup .
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
It comes from <URL> for morse communication . They where set up without a clear rhyme or reason that I can see besides being ordered alphabetically .
The altitude appears to be above ground level . From <URL> : Section 4 . Fuel Dumping 9 − 4 − 3 . ALTITUDE ASSIGNMENT If an aircraft is dumping fuel in IFR conditions , assign an altitude at least 2,000 feet above the highest obstacle within 5 miles of the route or pattern being flown . The wording says ' above the highest obstacle ' , indicating AGL . The <URL> is much more explicit : 13.3 Controllers are to recommend to flight crew that jettisoning of fuel should be carried out above 10,000 feet agl . Exceptionally , if fuel dumping at this level , or over water , is operationally impracticable or inconsistent with safety , fuel may be jettisoned above 7000 feet agl in winter and above 4000 feet agl in summer . This indicates that the altitude requirement of dumping fuel is from the from the first consideration i.e. it takes x feet for the fuel to fall before it evaporates . <URL> go into this at a little bit of detail . Generally , air masses are only moved vertically very slowly , usually at a settling rate of approximately 60 centimetres per second . In addition the upper limit of the planetary boundary layer ( PBL ) at the altitude of approximately 3000 ft over ground renders the air flow from the upper to the lower layers more difficult . Therefore the chance that even a small quantity of fuel reaches the ground is estimated to be unlikely . Again , it says ' above ground ' indicating AGL .
In general , the heavier an aircraft is , the greater the wake it produces but , it is also less affected by the wake of other aircraft . In particular , an aircraft can always resist the wake turbulence of a lighter category aircraft . <URL> that the A380 was not affected by wake turbulence from any aircraft in front , including another A380 , down to the minimum RADAR separation used on approaches which is 3NM . The RADAR separation used on any particular approach might be greater , but not less than this minimum therefore , there is no need to apply wake turbulence separation to a following A380 and the required RADAR separation for the approach is applied .
Sure can . FAR 61.109 makes no distinction between flight in hard IMC and simulated in an aircraft using a view limiting device .
The differences are in the demonstrated accuracy of the ILS or RNAV equipment . Not sure if the question can be properly answered without writing a book , but digging into the documents linked by Jonathan Walters I extracted the tables below . The document is very long and full of caveats , exceptions and specifics on testing requirements , etc. and frequently refers to parameters set forth in other documents . CAT I <URL> CAT II <URL> CAT III Landing System Performance . All types of low visibility landings systems , including automatic flight control , guidance for manual control , and hybrid , shall be demonstrated to achieve the performance accuracy with the probabilities prescribed in this section . The performance values may vary where justified by the characteristics of the airplane . The performance criteria and probabilities are as follows : ( a ) Longitudinal touch down earlier than a point on the runway 200 ft. ( 60m ) from the threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( b ) Longitudinal touch down beyond 2700 ft. ( 823m ) from threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( c ) Lateral touch down with the outboard landing gear more than 70 ft. ( 21.3 m ) from runway centerline to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . ( d ) Structural limit load , to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . An acceptable means of establishing that the structural limit load is not exceeded is to show separately and independently that : ( i ) The limit load that results from a sink rate at touch down not greater than 10 f.p.s. or the limit rate of descent used for certification under 14 CFR part 25 subpart C ( see section 25.473 ) , whichever is the greater . ( ii ) The lateral side load does not exceed the limit value determined for the lateral drift landing condition defined in part 25 , section 25.479 ( d ) ( 2 ) . ( e ) Bank angle resulting in hazard to the airplane to a probability of 1 x 10-7 . A hazard to the airplane is interpreted to mean a bank angle resulting in any part of the wing , high lift device , or engine nacelle touching the ground . 6.3.2 . Speed Control Performance . Airspeed must be controllable to within + / - five knots of the approach speed * , except for momentary gusts , up to the point where the throttles are retarded to idle for landing . For operations flown with manual control of approach speed , the flightcrew must be able to control speed to within + / - five knots of the approach speed . <URL>
Actually , it does n't matter whether you are a Private pilot or an ATP , the requirements for a type rating are in the <URL> , which apply regardless of the aircraft type . In the PTS , it says : Practical Test Book Description This practical test book contains the Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards -- Airplane . The Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards -- Airplane includes Areas of Operation and Tasks for the initial issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate and for the addition of category , class , and aircraft type ratings to an airline transport pilot certificate . These Areas of Operation and Tasks also apply for the issuance of an airplane type rating to a private or commercial pilot certificate . You basically cover everything needed for the ATP . The differences between the different airplanes come out during the practical test just like they do for any other checkride . The examiner ( who will be typed in the airplane ) asks you about the things that are specific to each airplane , but this is n't really a lot different than him asking you questions specific to a Cessna or a Piper during your private pilot checkride . The PTS specifies general Areas of Operation 's instead of saying exactly what needs to be tested for every aircraft type . Here they are for a type rating : Section 1 : Preflight Preparation Areas of Operation I. Preflight Preparation Task A : Equipment Examination Task B : Performance and Limitations Task C : Water and Seaplane Characteristics ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Seaplane Bases , Maritime Rules , and Aids to Marine Navigation ( AMES/ASES ) Section 2 : Preflight Procedures , Inflight Maneuvers , and Postflight Procedures Areas of Operation II . Preflight Procedures Task A : Preflight Inspection Task B : Powerplant Start Task C : TAXIING Task D : Sailing ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Seaplane Base/Water Landing Site Markings and Lighting ( AMES , ASES ) Task F : Pre-Takeoff Checks III . Takeoff and Departure Phase Task A : Normal and Crosswind Takeoff Task B : Glassy Water Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task C : Rough Water Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Confined-Area Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Instrument Takeoff Task F : Powerplant Failure during Takeoff Task G : Rejected Takeoff Task H : Departure Procedures IV . Inflight Maneuvers Task A : Steep Turns Task B : Approaches to Stalls and Stall Recovery Task C : Powerplant Failure -- Multiengine Airplane Task D : Powerplant Failure -- Single -- Engine Airplane Task E : Specific Flight Characteristics Task F : Recovery from Unusual Attitudes V. Instrument Procedures Task A : Standard Terminal Arrival/Flight Management System Procedures Task B : Holding Task C : Precision Approaches ( PA ) Task D : Nonprecision Approaches ( NPA ) Task E : Circling Approach Task F : Missed Approach VI . Landings and Approaches to Landings Task A : Normal and Crosswind Approaches and Landings Task B : Landing from a Precision Approach Task C : Approach and Landing with ( Simulated ) Powerplant Failure -- Multiengine Airplane Task D : Landing From a Circling Approach Task E : Rough Water Approach and Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task F : Glassy Water Approach And Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task G : Confined-Area Approach and Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task H : Rejected Landing Task I : Landing from a No Flap or a Nonstandard Flap Approach VII . Normal and Abnormal Procedures Task A : Normal and Abnormal Procedures VIII . Emergency Procedures Task A : Emergency Procedures IX . Postflight Procedures Task A : After-Landing Procedures Task B : Anchoring ( AMES/ASES ) Task C : Docking and Mooring ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Beaching ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Ramping ( AMES/ASES ) Task F : Parking and Securing
According to the Instrument Procedures Handbook ( FAA-H-8083-16A ) page 1-8 : " Aircraft operating under 14 CFR Part 91 are not required to comply with established takeoff minimums . Legally , a zero/zero departure may be made , but it is never advisable . "
Please use the equations of <URL> . The numbers might be different , but the physics are the same . EDIT : Thanks to D_S for providing the link to the manual . When flown with the maximum allowable load factor of 1.5 g at 80.000 ft ( 48 ° bank ) , the turn radius at Mach 3.2 ( equivalent to v = 953.3 m/s in 80.000 ft ) will be 83.5 km . To be more precise , you will need to add the effects of earth rotation , but for now I leave this away . As you can see , the turn will still need 163 km or 103.7 miles , but not the <URL> which is more than 6 times bigger . To turn this around : A circle at Mach 3.2 which has a diameter of 1092 km requires a bank angle of 9.6 ° . That can hardly be called a turn .
That is up to the civil aviation authority , which in most countries is distinct agency from the investigation board ( in USA this is FAA ) , to decide . They will take into consideration how likely the problem is to repeat , how big risk it would be if it does ¹ and as secondary criteria how much work the fix is and how much it will cost . What must be done will be published in an <URL> . If the problem is serious , they will prohibit any further flights except for testing purposes until fix is installed . And remember the fix may not be known yet . For example after the 787 battery fires , FAA published airworthiness directive that prohibited operations until " approved fix is installed " couple of days after the third incident when they just started to discuss what the fix should be with Boeing and whole fleet remained grounded for almost half a year until the modified batteries were ready . On the other end of the scale a problem may not necessarily result in mandatory change at all . Many issues simply result in mandating additional inspections , shortening intervals between inspections or shortening maximum service life of some component , which may be relaxed again if the manufacturer develops an improved version of the component and the operator installs it , neither of which is mandatory . Even quite severe problems may just be solved with inspections , because most components have inherently limited life and the problem just indicated higher wear then originally anticipated . ¹ It is important to remember that the investigators do n't only investigate crashes , but they get reports of all incidents , which means any failure where there was elevated risk . They then investigate those where they consider the risk significant or that are more common then expected . So often things are investigated where the probability of fatal outcome is low . In such cases the investigators will only consider safety and will publish a safety recommendation , but the aviation authority has to also consider other practical aspects and may choose not to enforce it .
The only real answer here is to <URL> . I searched on the AOPA forums ( members only ) and the information was n't encouraging : all current ( as of 2014 , which was the more recent relevant post I found ) neuropathy drugs are disqualifying . AOPA 's <URL> does show some approved drugs for pain relief , but it looks like it 's all OTC stuff . But , the usual medical disclaimer applies here : every case is different so the above may be irrelevant to you personally ; I 'm not a doctor and I do n't know what I 'm talking about anyway ; only an AME can give you meaningful information .
Why more experience is required to fly the airliner above I assume 6096 meters ? I would expect , taking off and flying close to terrain should need more experience . I 'm unaware of any regulation that requires a minimum number of hours to be a captain or first officer above FL200 . That does n't mean there are n't such , just that I do n't know of them . It 's not that that taking off and flying close to terrain requires more or less experience , but that safely operating at high altitude typically involves a different set of knowledge and experience than operating at low altitude . A seasoned bush pilot who does only that would be ill equipped to suddenly become the captain of a 747 at 35,000 feet , just as the 747 captain who had never been a bush pilot would be ill equipped to scud run through a valley to land on a remote airstrip . Part of the difference between two such pilots is , of course , a matter of a propeller airplane versus a jet , a slow airplane versus a fast , and the differing complexities of their aircraft . In addition to those differences , though , the environment that they typically operate in and indeed the altitude itself makes things different . The nature of the emergencies they can possibly face are also different . Offhand I can think of three things the typical low altitude pilot does n't have to contend with that the high altitude pilot does . There are certainly more . Oxygen considerations , in other words what you need to do if you suddenly do n't have it at a breathable pressure . Probably never going to happen , but the high altitude pilot trains for it . Regular operation in or close to the coffin corner . If you 're unfamiliar with the term , <URL> has a reasonable explanation as well as <URL> . A whole different situational awareness environment than the low altitude pilot . For example , I used to do a flight from Sao Paulo to Miami . Two other carriers had flights scheduled that went out immediately before us , also 747s . Everybody was always heavy , which meant the first guy out got the highest cruise altitude available for the weight we were all at approximately , the second guy 2,000 feet below that , and then us sucking fuel 4,000 feet lower than the first . However , I knew that if I could open up the distance between myself and the second guy , I could get a clearance through the second guy 's altitude to the first guy 's altitude since there was enough time/distance between us . So what I would do was to climb at best angle rather than best rate . Then , if the weather was good ( i.e. no turbulence ) and I had the engines for it , it took very little fuel burn before I would able to get 2,000 feet higher if I was willing to accept slightly lesser protection from the top of the coffin corner . Sometimes that would work out , sometimes not , but it always got us at least up to the first guy 's altitude . And on rare occasions , it meant we reached Miami before either of the other two .
Only if you fall under the Fractional rules ( Subpart K ) . Otherwise SIC currency requirements for turbojet airplanes are specified in 14 CFR 91.531 , which requires you to be current via 14 CFR 61.55 and has no instrument currency requirement ( although you do need your instrument rating to fly under IFR ) .
The different airspeeds : IAS is indicated airpseed CAS is calibrated airspeed EAS is equivalent airspeed TAS is true airspeed CAS is IAS corrected for instrumentation and position errors . The errors are most pronounced in slow and high angle-of-attack flight . IAS figures in aircraft manuals are actually converted from CAS . For ease of use . <URL> ( Wikipedia link ) . <URL> However , a modern plane with an <URL> ( ADC ) actually displays CAS , despite being labelled as IAS . Below 200 knots and 10,000 feet , for all purposes , CAS equals EAS . As the plane goes faster and higher and compresses the air , the air changes density , an effect known as compressibility that affects the CAS reading . <URL> EAS is computed by the ADC on a modern fast plane , and together with the density altitude , the TAS is then known . Ground speed and track ( from GPS , navaids , and/or INS ) together with the TAS allows the <URL> to calculate and display the wind speed/direction . Before ADC 's , pilots used charts like those in the answer . Summary : In a modern plane , what the pilot actually uses is CAS , despite being labelled IAS . And EAS is used in computing the TAS by the ADC . For engineers , TAS ( actual velocity through the air ) is used in lift equations , EAS is used in calculating dynamic pressures on the plane ( TAS corrected for air density ) . Source used and a must read : <URL>
My understanding is that your medical is currently invalid ( because you had bypass surgery and need to get your medical reinstated ) , so you currently can not exercise the privileges of your certificate - i.e. you ca n't act as pilot in command of a flight ( or any other required crew member in a role for which a medical is required ) . As Casey pointed out , you 've got an out that allows you to still take training ( and even to fly generally ) : Someone else with a valid medical and a certificate appropriate to the category &amp; class of aircraft needs to act as the ( legal , <URL> ) pilot in command while you 're operating the controls . If your CFII is willing to accept that role ( and the attendant liability ) while giving you your training you can go up with them and complete the recurrent training your insurance company requires , but this is something you need to discuss with your CFI prior to going up with them .
There are actually quite a few reasons to fly an instrument approach , especially one with vertical guidance ( like an ILS ) , even if the weather does n't require it : It serves as a backup to the visual approach . There are various visual illusions that can cause a pilot to fly an approach too high or too low and monitoring the vertical guidance can help to mitigate those . It helps to ensure that you land on the correct runway , and even at the correct airport . ( Unlike <URL> . ) ATC uses it when pilots do not have the airport or runway in sight . This happens quite frequently at large airports where they have to line many aircraft up on final . The last guy is a long distance from the airport so may not be able to see it but can fly the approach . It can be useful if it is hazy or the sun is making it hard for the pilots to find the airport . Some parallel runways are approved for simultaneous approaches ( as is the case at Narita for runways 34L &amp; 34R ) so ATC will clear two airplanes for the respective ILS 's . This keeps them tracking the centerline of the approach instead of maneuvering visually where they might drift over into the way of the other airplane . Flying the approach on the autopilot leaves more time for the pilot to focus on other things and possibly catch something that might have been missed while hand flying a visual approach . Sometimes instrument approaches are used for noise abatement reasons . If I had to guess about the particular approach that you mention , I would say that it is probably company SOP ( Standard Operating Procedures ) to fly the ILS whenever possible for the safety benefits , and that Narita allows simultaneous parallel landings to the two runways so ATC would require it as well .
Required runway length for landing The minimum runway length required for landing under Part 135 operations is , believe it or not , the same as Part 91 : You need to be able to land and stop within the available runway length specified in the AFM . This is what you use when you are getting ready to land . That being said , since you reference the " 60 % / 80 % rules " , there is a more stringent requirement that is required as part of your preflight planning and specified in <URL> 60 % Rule for Large Turbine Transport Category Airplanes This rule is specified in 14 CFR 135.385 ( b ) , and says ( in part ) : no person operating a turbine engine powered large transport category airplane may take off that airplane unless its weight on arrival ... would allow a full stop landing at the intended destination airport within 60 percent of the effective length of each runway So to follow the regulation by the letter , you need to take 60 % of the runway length and compare it to your actual landing distance . Example We want to land on a 6,000 ft. runway , so our max allowable landing distance is 3,600 ft. : $ $ 6,000 ft \ times60 \ % = 3,600 ft $ $ Determining minimum runway length Sometimes pilots prefer to ask the question in a different way , and ask " what is the minimum runway distance needed for the current conditions " instead of " what can my maximum landing distance be . To calculate this , we simply re-arrange our formula above like this : $ $ Minimum ~ Runway = \ frac { Actual ~ Landing ~ Distance } { 60 \ % } $ $ If our actual landing distance is 3,000 ft. then we would need a minimum field length of 5,000 ft. : $ $ \ frac { 3,000 ft } { 60 \ % } = 5,000 ft $ $ 80 % Rule The 80 % rule specified in 14 CFR 135.385 ( f ) works exactly the same way , but can only be used by an " An eligible on-demand operator " if approved in accordance with their Operations Specifications ( A057 and C049 ) and the procedures listed in their Flight Operations Manual . You would then replace the 60 % with 80 % in the above calculations . Wet Runways 14 CFR 135.385 ( d ) says : ( d ) Unless , based on a showing of actual operating landing techniques on wet runways , a shorter landing distance ( but never less than that required by paragraph ( b ) of this section ) has been approved for a specific type and model airplane and included in the Airplane Flight Manual , no person may take off a turbojet airplane when the appropriate weather reports or forecasts , or any combination of them , indicate that the runways at the destination airport may be wet or slippery at the estimated time of arrival unless the effective runway length at the destination airport is at least 115 percent of the runway length required under paragraph ( b ) of this section . So basically , you use the information from your AFM for wet runway landing distance , or if it is n't provided ( since it is n't required ) , you do the same calculation that you did before but include an additional 15 % . Example : Taking the example from the 60 % rule and assuming that it is wet , we have a max landing distance of 3,130 ft. : $ $ \ frac { 6,000 ft \ times60 \ % } { 115 \ % } = 3,130 ft $ $ Minimum Runway Length When Wet The minimum runway distance with a 3,000 ft. actual landing distance would be 5,750 ft. : $ $ \ frac { 3,000 ft \ times115 \ % } { 60 \ % } = 5,750 ft $ $
No polarizing glasses , they make reading anti-glare instruments difficult and sometimes even limit your outside view if the cockpit windows are polarized as well . Good fit , you do n't want to loose them in the slightest of turbulence . Consider fitting a strap so you can temporarily hang them around your neck . They also need to be comfortable if you wear a headset over them . Neutral colour ( grey , grey-green , brown ) of the lenses , which does not distort the natural colours too much as that would make distinguishing navigation lights more difficult . Actually the FAA have published a <URL> which covers many aspects .
The UK aviation medical standards are <URL> , so I assume you could go to any doctor with that information for a checkup .
end question
start question
On a larger airplane , how do they manage balance ?
Before the main cabin door is closed , the ramp personnel will deliver a cargo sheet that lists number of checked bags number of gate checked bags number of heavy checked bags pounds of commercial cargo pounds of company cargo With numbers broken down by cargo bin where accurate . The flight attendant will deliver a sheet with passenger count in zones . The FMS or EICAS screens can tell you how much fuel is on board . From there , some airline have ACARS programs that you plug those numbers into and it will give you weight information ( to turn #bags and #people into pounds ) . Other have worksheets to calculate the weights . In the EMB-145 we then had to spin a special wheel with the weight information to get the balance info . This can vary by operator . Some operators will have the W&amp;B calculated by dispatch and all of the numbers I mention above are put into the computer system by various people and the dispatcher will deliver the W&amp;B and takeoff reference data to the pilots via ACARS . What if there is a problem ? Problems can be overweight overall , overweight in the cabin , overweight in the bag compartments or out of balance . For overweight , remove people or bags as necessary . If fuel has not arrived and you can do without some , call dispatch to revise the numbers and load less fuel . If you are out of balance , you move people or bags around . This was rarely an issue and if it does happen you just ask a passenger from zone X to sit in zone Y for takeoff .
Before the main cabin door is closed , the ramp personnel will deliver a cargo sheet that lists number of checked bags number of gate checked bags number of heavy checked bags pounds of commercial cargo pounds of company cargo With numbers broken down by cargo bin where accurate . The flight attendant will deliver a sheet with passenger count in zones . The FMS or EICAS screens can tell you how much fuel is on board . From there , some airline have ACARS programs that you plug those numbers into and it will give you weight information ( to turn #bags and #people into pounds ) . Other have worksheets to calculate the weights . In the EMB-145 we then had to spin a special wheel with the weight information to get the balance info . This can vary by operator . Some operators will have the W&amp;B calculated by dispatch and all of the numbers I mention above are put into the computer system by various people and the dispatcher will deliver the W&amp;B and takeoff reference data to the pilots via ACARS . What if there is a problem ? Problems can be overweight overall , overweight in the cabin , overweight in the bag compartments or out of balance . For overweight , remove people or bags as necessary . If fuel has not arrived and you can do without some , call dispatch to revise the numbers and load less fuel . If you are out of balance , you move people or bags around . This was rarely an issue and if it does happen you just ask a passenger from zone X to sit in zone Y for takeoff .
end question
start question
What is a stabilized approach ?
When you look at FAA publications <URL> is pretty simple : A stabilized approach is one in which the pilot establishes and maintains a constant angle glidepath towards a predetermined point on the landing runway . When pilots talk about stabilized approaches we generally mean a little more than that though - for example <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all include more than just the constant-angle glide path in their recommendations for what makes an approach " stabilized " . Criteria that are commonly included in a " stabilized approach " are : Maintaining a constant-angle glidepath toward a predetermined aiming point on the runway . Maintaining a specified descent rate Maintaining a specified airspeed ( Vapp ) ( Generally being slightly above Vapp is OK , but below is unacceptable . ) Having the aircraft configured for landing ( gear , flaps , etc. ) All required checklists completed The approach can be maintained with only " small corrections " to pitch , heading , or power . An approach is " stabilized " if all the required criteria are met by a specific altitude ( Airbus calls them " Stabilization Heights " , and recommends 500 feet for approaches in VMC , and 1000 feet for approaches in IMC ) . If the approach is not stabilized by the appropriate stabilization height ( or conditions cause the approach to become " destabilized " - a sudden change in winds for example ) the approach is abandoned ( a " go-around " ) . So what makes stabilized approaches safer ? The theory is that a stabilized approach reduces the pilot 's workload as they 're getting closer to the ground : If the aircraft is configured for landing and all the checklists have been completed all the pilot has to do is gently nudge the controls to keep the plane going where they want it , and they can concentrate all of their attention on a nice , safe , ( hopefully ) smooth landing . Are stabilized approaches always safer ? From a workload perspective , yes . It 's hard to argue with " The pilot has less work to do " . <URL> Stabilized approaches generally require partial power to be maintained throughout the approach , and although the engines in modern single-engine piston/jet aircraft have a pretty good track record of reliability there are good arguments for " non-stabilized " approaches ( or approaches that are effectively " stabilized " at idle power ) in single-engine aircraft . Even if you 're not flying a " stabilized approach " the way the airline folks define it you 're well-served by incorporating some of the elements though - going around if your checklists are n't completed by a certain altitude , abandoning the approach if you have to manhandle the controls to try to keep things together , etc. .
NOTE : This answer is specific to the United States as the question uses an example approach procedure from an airport in the United States . Procedures may vary for other nations . Consult the respective Aeronautical Information Publication for specific guidance . As long as you hear the magic words " cleared approach , " you can begin your descent as soon as you cross the IAF the first time ( while beginning your teardrop maneuver ) and continue to descend to the minimum altitude while in the circuit , which is at or above 2000 for this particular procedure . Note that you MUST be on a published segment of the approach before making your descent , otherwise terrain clearance is not assured . The controller will expect you to proceed from the IF to the FAF after the first circuit is complete ( a course reversal maneuver , if executed counts as the first circuit ) . You must advise the controller if additional circuits are required in order to lose altitude . Also , if the controller clears you for a " straight-in " approach and doing so would result in an excessive descent rate , it is incumbent upon you as the pilot to advise the controller that you are unable . Reference : <URL>
According to <URL> : 5.7.4 . ARRIVAL PROCEDURES : 5.7.4.1 . DESCENTS : 5.7.4.1.1 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ( Overhead , Downwind , Beam , etc ) : High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach . ... 5.7.4.1.3 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ASSAULT -- High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach to an assault landing zone . Note : A separate penetration descent profile may also be flown to Mackall AAF ( HFF ) , see Pope Aircrew In-flight guide for procedures . 5.7.4.1.3.1 . Arrival Procedures : 5.7.4.1.3.1.1 . When sequenced , commence penetration descent to a tactical approach , ARA , or normal pattern . Request desired approach as early as possible upon switching to Pope Tower . 5.7.4.1.3.1.2 . Remain at or above 2500 ' MSL until within 5 NM of Pope . Do not descend below 720 ' MSL until given clearance to land from Pope Tower . See also fooot 's <URL> to another question , where he describes a tactical descent as an extremely steep descent , and a tactical approach as an extremely steep approach . According to other sources , the technique in question might also be called ( depending on the exact landing circumstances ) an <URL> , a <URL> or even a <URL> .
A QRH is a Quick Reference Handbook and is an approved ( by some overseeing entity ) document specific to an airplane and operator that contains checklists for just about anything the airplane can experience . At my airline we had copies in the airplane and also in our company flight manual ( CFM ) . The entry point into a QRH checklist is one of a few things Memory items EICAS message An abnormal event For option 1 , there are various checklists that must be memorized and performed at a moments notice with no reference to the checklist . Some of these are things like trim runaways , engine fire/severe damage , emergency descent . Once the memory part of the checklist is complete you refer to the printed version of the checklist in the QRH to verify and perform additional steps beyond the part you were required to memorize . For the other options , any time anything abnormal happens or an EICAS message is presented , there are indices by procedure name and also by EICAS message into a specific procedure in the QRH to follow . These procedures may reference other procedures . For example , If I were to experience a dual engine failure , I would pick up my QRH and find the procedure " DUAL ENGINE FAILURE " , this procedure says I should have the master warning light illuminated ( and an aural triple chime ) and I should see the EICAS message ( in red ) " ENG 1-2 OUT " . After verifying this presentation and verifying I am in the right procedure , I would perform :
A listening squawk is a transponder code you set to indicate to an ATC controller that you are listening out on a particular frequency . Unlike squawk codes assigned by the controller , the listening squawk is not unique to your aircraft but is a set ( and published ) code for the particular area . In the UK it is commonly used in the uncontrolled airspace around a major airport 's terminal control area . Examples in the UK include the airspace surrounding Luton , Stansted , Leeds , and one dedicated to the narrow " low level corridor " allowing VFR flight between the class D airspaces of Manchester and Liverpool . The procedure is : after signing off from whatever facility you were previously in contact with , set your com radio to the assigned listening frequency and set your transponder to the published listening squawk . Do not contact the controller , instead listen out for any broadcast which may be intended for you ( eg the controller may ask the aircraft in a particular location to respond ) . They will know you are on frequency because of the code you are squawking . The controller will generally only attempt to contact you if you are about to violate controlled airspace or have a traffic conflict . Note that this should be treated as a backup only , the responsibilities for navigation and see-and-avoid remain as ever with the pilot . Once out of the area , or when you need to change frequency to your destination or next enroute contact , turn the transponder back to the VFR conspicuity code 7000 . If I recall correctly my instructor told me that this is a UK/CAA-specific initiative and is not found in other countries .
It is possible to overfill a wing . You fuel the aircraft when its wing is cold . Later as the aircraft sits on the ramp the outside temp increases causing the full to expand in an already full wing . So they have the overflow system dumps the excess fuel on the ramp . Its usually not a lot of fuel just a few gallons . It also prevents the fueler from over fueling the wind . It can sometime dump 50 gallons or more if the fueler it not paying attention .
The safest approach to a normal landing is a <URL> , so it 's going to depend a lot on you , your aircraft , and the day 's conditions . If you 're operating in a confined area , then that changes things a lot , and I 'm not going to address that . It also depends on your definition of a normal pattern and approach . The FAA <URL> , which should keep you fairly close to the airport anyway , and <URL> . That said , a normal approach is going to be much safer . As you point out in your question , a short approach often requires extreme descent rates or slips ( or both ) , and results in a much shorter final ; neither of those situations improve safety . Approaching with a high descent rate just so that you can reduce it if necessary does n't strike me as a particularly good choice for normal operations , either .
A major advantage is standardization . An aircraft can be given a <URL> , and assuming everything goes to plan , everyone involved will be on the same page as to what is going to happen . When air traffic control instructs an aircraft to fly a departure procedure , a large volume of information ( e.g. climb to this altitude , turn this way , turn that way , etc. . . ) can be communicated just by giving the name of the procedure . This is far more convenient and predictable for both the crew and controllers than giving every instruction individually . This allows controllers to focus on preventing conflicts and dealing with abnormal situations rather than issuing routine instructions , and it reduces the risk those instructions may be miscommunicated or misunderstood . The procedure itself will have been developed by specialists based on all sorts of criteria , among them : Obstacle clearance . This can be anything from the huge mountain range near the airport to buildings to towers to anything else . The procedure can be designed with a required minimum rate of climb , and pilots can ensure they are able to meet that requirement to climb over any obstacles . Obstacles might also be virtual , such as restricted areas for military purposes . Noise abatement . Communities in the vicinity of airports often have noise complaints . Departure procedures can be designed to direct aircraft away from noise sensitive areas . Traffic flow . Near a busy airport , large numbers of aircraft are maneuvering at low altitudes . Standardizing departure and arrival flows along certain corridors allows air traffic control to deal with aircraft moving in predictable ways and avoids potential conflict between different aircraft . Departure procedures help ensure separation between arriving and departing aircraft . Regional traffic flows . In congested airspace where several busy airports are located in close proximity , procedures can be developed to ensure that traffic to and from each airport are kept separated . A good example is the busy airspace around New York City , where <URL> are used to separate traffic into the region 's airports . Winds . Different runways may be used depending on wind conditions . There may be different departure procedures available for different runway configurations and/or universal departure procedures that have different instructions depending on the runway used . Navigational aids . While modern <URL> procedures are now available , traditional departure procedures guide aircraft from the runway through routes navigable through NAVAIDS like <URL> and <URL> onto established <URL> . Of course , an aircraft flying a departure procedure can always be given instructions to deviate from that procedure if it becomes necessary , such as for other traffic . If conditions permit , it 's also possible for a controller to give a " shortcut " by circumventing part of the procedure , perhaps by turning early toward the next waypoint on the flight 's filed route .
If the aircraft has not established a <URL> , a go around is required . According to EUROCONTROL 's Skybrary , a stabilised approach is defined as : Their Approach-and-landing Accident Reduction ( ALAR ) Briefing Note 7-1 suggests that " all flights must be stabilised by 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC and 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC . An approach is stabilised when all of the following criteria are met : The aircraft is on the correct flight path Only small changes in heading/pitch are necessary to maintain the correct flight path The airspeed is not more than VREF + 20kts indicated speed and not less than VREF The aircraft is in the correct landing configuration Sink rate is no greater than 1000 feet/minute ; if an approach requires a sink rate greater than 1000 feet/minute a special briefing should be conducted Power setting is appropriate for the aircraft configuration and is not below the minimum power for the approach as defined by the operating manual All briefings and checklists have been conducted Specific types of approach are stabilized if they also fulfill the following : ILS approaches must be flown within one dot of the glide-slope and localizer a Category II or III approach must be flown within the expanded localizer band during a circling approach wings should be level on final when the aircraft reaches 300 feet above airport elevation ; and , Unique approach conditions or abnormal conditions requiring a deviation from the above elements of a stabilized approach require a special briefing . An approach that becomes unstabilised below 1000 feet above airport elevation in IMC or 500 feet above airport elevation in VMC requires an immediate go-around . ( Source : <URL> )
A gust alleviation system is a control system fitted to some Fly-by-wire ( FBW ) aircraft that reduces the effect of gust loads on the aircraft by deflecting control surfaces such as ailerons , rudder and elevators . The system works by measuring the upward acceleration of the aircraft and comparing that with the acceleration commanded by the ( auto ) pilot . A feedback loop adds a correction signal to the signals controlling the deflection of the control surfaces in order to counteract the accelerations cause by wind gusts . In its simplest form the accelerations are sensed near the center of gravity of the aircraft . More advanced implementations work with multiple sensors in the body and in the wings . These gust alleviation systems do not only attempt to annul the effect of the gusts on the aircraft 's normal ( upward ) acceleration , they also reduce the wing bending moments . This is turn reduces metal fatigue . In the A380 the load alleviation system is nicknamed " valse des aileron " ( Waltz of the Ailerons ) because of the dancing movements of the aileron : <URL>
SOIA ( Simultaneous Offset Instrument Approaches ) allow airports with parallel runways that are 750 to 3000 feet apart to conduct ( almost ) simultaneous approaches to the two runways . At an airport , one runway uses the ILS PRM approach , while the other runway uses an offset LDA PRM approach ( with glideslope ) . SOIA refers to the LDA PRM approach , where another aircraft is flying the ILS PRM approach ahead . PRM stands for Precision Runway Monitor , which is a high-update radar system allowing for " equivalent " safety with reduced margins . For a PRM approach is conducted , there must be two frequencies per runway : a primary frequency for both the transmission and receipt of instructions a " monitor " frequency , only for ATC to transmit on The reason for the " monitor " frequency is just in case the primary frequency is blocked and breakout instructions have to be provided . The tower controller will communicate to aircraft on both frequencies , both in normal PRM operations and when providing breakout instructions . There is also a " monitor " controller that ensures that the two aircraft never get dangerously close together -- if such a situation occurs , the " monitor " controller overrides the tower controller on both frequencies to allow for immediate breakout instructions to be given . Of the two apporaches , the more interesting of the two is the offset LDA PRM approach . In the LDA PRM approach , aircraft fly an approach course that is 2.5 to 3 degrees offset from the runway heading , following the glideslope until the MAP ( this course does not meet up with the runway threshold ) , at which point the pilot should proceed visually to the runway . <URL> The MAP on a LDA PRM approach is 3000 feet away from the ILS approach course , meaning aircraft have to manoeuvre towards the extended runway centreline to be stable by 500 feet -- the less spacing between the two runways , the more aircraft will have to turn . This does mean that it is less suitable to larger aircraft , due to the manoeuvring required at higher speeds ( than other aircraft ) , though most SOIA approaches are designed for larger aircraft as well . Before reaching the MAP , the pilot must have have : the runway in sight ; the aircraft on the adjacent ILS PRM approach in sight ; and notified ATC that traffic is in sight . This means that the aircraft on the ILS PRM approach should be ahead of the other aircraft . To allow time for visual contact , aircraft should be clear of cloud before the MAP , which is taken into account when deciding on the minimum cloud ceiling allowed for the approach . The NTZ ( No Transgression Zone ) is a 2000 foot wide area between the two approach courses which aircraft must not enter at any time . ATC would immediately issue breakout instructions to both aircraft if an aircraft breaches the NTZ , as there would be very little horizontal separation between the two aircraft . [ The FAA AIM ] [ 3 ] states that : In the unlikely event that an aircraft " blunders " off its course and makes a worst case turn of 30 degrees toward the adjacent final approach course , closing speeds of 135 feet per second could occur that constitute the need for quick reaction . Special training requirements vary from country to country . In the US , SOIA special training requirements are : Parts 121/129/135 : operator training as agreed to by FAA and educational video Part 91 transport category : read about PRM approaches in AIM , video Part 91 other : read about PRM and SOIA approaches in AIM , video An example of a SOIA approach is the SFO runway 28R LDA PRM approach :
How do you define a crew duty day ? When does it start and when does it end ? In the most simplistic terms , a crew 's duty day can be defined in two parts : the " flight duty period " ( FDP ) and the " flight time " . The FDP begins when the crew " clocks in " for their shift . There might be administrative duties to accomplish prior to flying , so " flight time " has not yet started . The FDP ends when the last flight that they operate blocks in . The Flight Time begins and ends with each Block Out to Block In , and there might be several individual flights within a single FDP . Once the FDP is over , they might still be required to attend to admin duties , but their FDP " clock " has stopped ticking . Their " rest " clock has not yet started , just because their FDP has ended . ( Some of these terms and definitions will be expanded upon later . ) Also what are the legal limits ( in other words how long can a crew duty day last in terms of hours ) ? This is an extremely complicated question , and the rest of this answer will be devoted to this , in conjunction with your other sub-questions . [ Are there ] standardized set of rules ? Not necessarily rules , per se ... but the ICAO does have a lot of documentation about duty/rest , fatigue management , and the effects on safety . Although the ICAO can not publish laws , most of it 's member nations write their aviation laws in close conjunction with ICAO 's recommendations . These nations have ratified treaties stating that they will " abide by " most of the ICAO 's recommendations . does each country define its own rules ? Yes , each regulatory body has its own laws for determining duty/rest requirements . Most are very similar , and based on the ICAO 's body of documentation and research . Narrowing this down even further , each carrier develops it 's own policies and procedures that are based on ( and approved by ) it 's parent nation 's regulatory body . What happens when you fly say from the US to Australia ? Which set of rules prevail ? You will follow the policies of your air carrier , which are enforced by your carrier 's country of registration . Let 's start with the US . Ok , within the US , most of the rules regarding duty/rest for Part 121 Air Carriers are enumerated in <URL> . There are some " All Cargo " duty/rest requirements under Part 121 <URL> ( Domestic ) , <URL> ( Flag ) , and <URL> ( Supplemental ) ; however , carriers can chose to use these 121 Subparts OR Part 117 , but not both . Once they make that choice ( listed in their GOM/OpSpecs and approved by the FAA ) , they are stuck with it . What is the exact definition of a " crew duty day " ? As noted in the comments of the question , this is not a legal term within the US FARs . Under Part 117 , we find the definition for these related terms : Calendar day means a 24-hour period from 0000 through 2359 using Coordinated Universal Time or local time . Duty means any task that a flightcrew member performs as required by the certificate holder , including but not limited to flight duty period , flight duty , pre - and post-flight duties , administrative work , training , deadhead transportation , aircraft positioning on the ground , aircraft loading , and aircraft servicing . Flight duty period ( FDP ) means a period that begins when a flightcrew member is required to report for duty with the intention of conducting a flight , a series of flights , or positioning or ferrying flights , and ends when the aircraft is parked after the last flight and there is no intention for further aircraft movement by the same flightcrew member . A flight duty period includes the duties performed by the flightcrew member on behalf of the certificate holder that occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without a required intervening rest period . Examples of tasks that are part of the flight duty period include deadhead transportation , training conducted in an aircraft or flight simulator , and airport/standby reserve , if the above tasks occur before a flight segment or between flight segments without an intervening required rest period . Rest period means a continuous period determined prospectively during which the flightcrew member is free from all restraint by the certificate holder , including freedom from present responsibility for work should the occasion arise . From there , it can get extremely complicated and an airline 's crew scheduler probably could not do their job without the aid of a computer . Flight crewmembers are restricted to a certain number of hours in a duty period , and there are limits to cumulative hours as well : total Flight Time can not exceed : -- 100 hours in any 672 consecutive hours or -- 1,000 hours in any 365 consecutive calendar day period . And then ... total Flight Duty Period can not exceed : 60 flight duty period hours in any 168 consecutive hours or 190 flight duty period hours in any 672 consecutive hours . They are required to have a certain number of hours of " rest " in between these duty periods , and those rest hou
I think you 're overlooking the primary reason pilots fly instrument approaches : the conditions do not permit flight by visual reference . The fact that a PAPI provides vertical guidance is more or less useless if you ca n't see it . Most ILS approaches involve a descent of at least 1500 ' from glideslope intercept . If you break out from the clouds at ILS minimums , you can be as low as 200 ' above the runway surface ; at 3 ° , that 's around 3/4 miles from the touchdown zone and the PAPI . It 's highly unlikely that the PAPI would be visible prior to that point , meaning the approach would be made with purely lateral guidance .
I fly out of a controlled satellite class D ( <URL> ) below a class C ( <URL> ) so I 'm fairly familiar with this scenario , at least in the way that it 's handled there . The short story - in my experience - is that Approach only cares about you having the numbers or ATIS for the airport where you 'll actually land . First the theory . The <URL> say : 7 − 1 − 3 . APPROACH CONTROL SERVICE FOR VFR ARRIVING AIRCRAFT Issue the following where procedures have been established for arriving VFR aircraft to contact approach control for landing information : a. Wind , runway , and altimeter setting at the airport of intended landing . This information may be omitted if contained in the ATIS broadcast and the pilot states the appropriate ATIS code or if the pilot uses the phrase , " have numbers . " Note the " airport of intended landing " , they are n't going to pester you to get the ATIS for somewhere that you are n't going to . Second , the practice . If I 'm inbound to KLOU on flight following ( do n't leave home without it ! ) then my first contact with Louisville Approach usually goes like this : Me : Louisville Approach , N12345 level at 6500 Appch : N12345 , roger , Louisville Altimeter is 2992 , report when you have the weather at Bowman , information Kilo is current Me : N12345 has Kilo at Bowman Appch : N12345 , roger [ and further instructions as needed ] As a controlled field , Bowman has ATIS , not " the numbers " but I 've had more or less the same exchange at other places . I think that <URL> about information is useful here : when I 'm inbound I usually have both the KSDF and KLOU ATIS anyway , just in case . Also notice how the KSDF controller helps me : the KLOU ATIS could have changed from Kilo to Lima between the time I got it and the time I called Approach . By telling me that Kilo is current , the controller is effectively telling me if I have to go and get the ATIS again or not . As for just passing through class C , the very few times I 've done that ATC has simply given me the local altimeter setting and that 's it . I 'm not landing , so they do n't seem to care if I have the ATIS or not .
There are contingency measures for PF incapacitation when PNF is absent from the cockpit . This includes measures for cockpit decompression ( e.g. window breaking ) These measures are balanced with measures to prevent unauthorised passengers forcing entry to the cockpit , including by using force on cabin crew ( or PNF ) to make them open the cockpit door . Some of these measures are at the airline 's discretion . Cockpit door locks According to <URL> A locked door is opened by a flight crew inside the cockpit but can also be unlocked by cabin crew entering a keycode from the outside . Crew inside the cockpit can manually override it to keep a door locked for up to five minutes . " In the case of an electrical supply failure the door is automatically unlocked , but remains closed , " reads the manual . It is equipped with a manual escape hatch but that is only accessible from the inside . According to <URL> safety protocols mandated by Congress in the U.S. after the Sept. 11 attacks ... eliminate the use of keys for entering the cockpit - assuring that no errant passenger can wrestle a key away from a crew member . ... If a member of the flight crew does n't open the locked cockpit door from the inside , according to a manual for the Airbus A320 <URL> , the door can also be unlocked by the cabin crew outside the cockpit by entering a two - to seven-digit code , pre-programmed by the airline , on a keypad . Cockpit occupancy Guardian : Protocols and standard procedures around what happens when a pilot leaves the cockpit mid-flight vary according to country and airline . A flight attendant taking the seat of an absent pilot to ensure there are always two people in the cockpit , and/or blocking access to the open door with a trolley , are often seen on US flights , but not necessarily on others , [ Aviation expert Neil Handsford ] said . For instance it is not a requirement on Australian flights . LA Times : American experts say the typical procedure is for a flight attendant to use a food cart to block access to the cockpit when the pilot opens the door to leave . A flight attendant is supposed to remain in the cockpit and open the door for the pilot upon his or her return . ... Airbus Manual The Airbus manual referred to above says The Cockpit Door Locking System ( CDLS ) provides a means of electrically locking and unlocking the cockpit door . This system is mainly composed of : A keypad , located in the forward cabin , near the cockpit door , A toggle switch , located in the center pedestal 's Cockpit Door panel , A control unit and its CKPT DOOR CONT normal panel , located on the overhead panel , A buzzer . The keypad enables the cabin crew to request access to the cockpit . There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request ( Refer to PRO-SUP-25 Cockpit Door Operation - General ) . The toggle switch enables the flight crew to lock or unlock the cockpit door , following an access request , thereby allowing or denying the entry to the cockpit . The cockpit door control unit is the system controller , in charge of : Locking or unlocking the door latches , upon flight crew action . Unlocking the door , in case of cockpit decompression ( the door then opens towards the cockpit under differential pressure ) . Indicating system failures of electrical latches and pressure sensors . Activating the access request buzzer and turning on the keypad LEDs . The buzzer sounds in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s to indicate that a routine access request has been made , or sounds continuously if an emergency access procedure has been initiated . The keypad is used to sound the buzzer in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s ( 3 s by default ) , by entering a zero to seven-digit code , as programmed by the airline , followed by the ' # ' key . It is also used to enter the two to seven-digit emergency code , followed by the ' # ' key , when the flight crew does not respond . There is also an <URL> that shows how the cockpit door lock operates normally and in the case of pilot incapacitation Abbreviations PF = Pilot flying , PNF = Pilot not flying .
As you have intimated in the question , how hard you hit the ground is very dependent on a number of factors . When I did my training to jump using a classical tethered round chute we practiced landing from a platform of about 5 feet , so six is perhaps a hard landing . That 's , roughly , hitting the ground at 12mph . Folks like the Red Devils typically use an parafoil chute . Basically a self inflating wing . These can be steered and pitched upward to bring the trooper to a stall or even go up if they have enough forward velocity . So yes , you will often see them stop in mid-air and step down . This means this type of parachute has NO equivalent jump height . In fact if flown incorrectly you can crash into the ground at serious speeds . <URL> Regular " military style " parachutes provide no control over lift and only minor control over direction . With these your descent rate is totally dependent on size , weight and air quality . <URL> Interestingly , with a regular chute , what makes landings " harder " is not so much the effective height but the amount of horizontal velocity . You are trained to drop and roll when you hit the ground to absorb the impact . <URL> This works great if you have any horizontal velocity to help you initiate the roll . If however you are coming straight down it 's not so easy . . and your knees end up in your chest ... as I found out the one and only time I jumped out of an aging Cessna . Too much horizontal velocity and that roll gets rather violent .
I believe what you are referring to is an acceptance flight , rather than a certification flight . Certification flights ( usually there many ) are flights which the manufacturer demonstrates to aviation authorities that a new design of an aircraft is safe . However , just because a design has been tested , does not mean a new aircraft is produced exactly to the design . Acceptance flight is a test flight which make sure the aircraft has been manufactured up to standard . Acceptance flights are also required after major maintenance work or avionics upgrades . Its purpose is to explore the entire flight envelope and ensure emergency / backup systems work as expected . During a normal flight , only a portion of the systems ' functions are used . A test flight is a complete evaluation of all conditions , such that malfunctions or deviations will not go unnoticed . Of course , the pilots will first examine critical systems ( e.g. engines , flight controls ) on the ground . Depending on the aircraft , the tests to be completed in the air include : Engine shutdown and restarts autopilot roll rates , flap extension speed , engine response etc. . Alternate gear extension Fuel jettison Over-speed warnings <URL> Ground Proximity Warning System ( GPWS ) Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) operation at high altitude Cabin service systems
What a fix is has been answered <URL> but for now let 's just say it 's a known location that a pilot can navigate to if he has the right equipment . Fixes are shown on various charts and approach plates . As for using those fixes on an instrument approach , there are lots of variations and details but again , let 's ignore most of that for now . The basic concept is very simple : Fly to an Initial Approach Fix ( IAF ) Fly to other fixes as needed to execute the approach Land ( or go missed ) For example , here 's the RNAV ( GPS ) 36R approach at <URL> : <URL> You can see at the bottom of the map portion of the plate that both MASHA and FEWER are IAFs , so that 's where the approach starts . Let 's say you 're approaching from the south-west and you 've already descended to a reasonable altitude for starting an approach , following a <URL> or vectors from ATC . ATC says something like " N12345 proceed direct MASHA , cleared for the RNAV 36R approach " . That means that you are now cleared to execute the approach as shown on the chart , with no further instruction from ATC ( although they might have vectored you towards the IAF initially ) . The chart tells you that at MASHA you need to be at at least 3000ft MSL so you simply fly there at or above that altitude . Since it 's a GPS approach , you load it and activate it in your GPS unit , and you can follow the GPS track to MASHA . After MASHA , the next fix is ENIKY and the GPS track will lead you east to that fix ( which is a heading of 091 ° from MASHA ) . The profile view at the bottom of the plate shows that you must still be at or above 3000ft at ENIKY . Then you turn left to 002 ° and fly to UJOTY , where you must be at or above 2700ft . Then you continue to GEPDE at or above 1180ft . Then you land :-) Of course , I 'm ignoring a huge amount of detail here - like everything else printed on the approach plate ! - but since this question is about fixes the main point is that they 're simply a series of waypoints that you fly over ( <URL> ) to get to the runway . And obviously you also have to control your altitude as you descend , but the altitude is defined by the approach procedure , it is n't part of the definition of the fix itself . The same fix can be used in multiple approaches : MASHA and FEWER are also the IAFs for the <URL> ) . Even though different approaches define and use fixes in different ways , the basic idea is always the same : just fly from one fix to the next until you get where you 're going .
I have no idea about ICAO but as far as I can tell from the <URL> , there 's no general requirement to have any runway or approach lighting at all ( see below for an example ) , although some specific approach types ( like CAT II/III ILS ) do require it . Where there is lighting , it 's used to reduce the visibility minimums , but the calculations assume no approach lighting by default . This is from 3-1-2 ( c ) ( emphasis mine ) : Approach lighting systems extend visual cues to the approaching pilot and make the runway environment apparent with less visibility than when such lighting is not available . For this reason , lower straight-in ( not applicable to circling ) visibility minimums may be established when standard or equivalent approach lighting systems are present . The TERPS concept seems to be that the approach minimums can be reduced depending on the lighting type available . Section 3-3-2 has an example of calculating visibility minimums when there are no approach lights available . As for a specific example , <URL> has three approaches ( 2 RNAV ( GPS ) , 1 VOR ) but - as far as I can tell - no lighting of any kind . The chart supplement says : Rwy 02 -- 20 marked with rwy cones . Rwy 13 -- 31 marked with cones and OTS lgts . Many missing . As you might expect , the approaches are not authorized at night :-) Finally , part 121/135 passenger flights ca n't land at night unless the runway is lit ( <URL> , <URL> ) , so any airport that handles those flights will have runway lighting at least , and almost certainly approach lighting too .
The fire sensor 's time to give the alarm is customizable depending upon the fire safety alarm being used . Two widely used types of continuous-loop systems are the thermistor type detectors , such as the Kidde and the Fenwal systems , and the pneumatic pressure detector , such as the Lingberg system . ( Lindberg system is also known as Systron-Donner and , more recently , Meggitt Safety Systems . ) . A typical delay of 10 Seconds is quite common . Here is the <URL> for your further reading
end question
start question
What is the difference between directs and shortcuts in the Route Availability Document ?
A shortcut is a deviation from the filed flightplan given to an aircraft by ATC during the flight , if traffic and other factors permit . A flight crew can not expect to get any shortcuts , so they can not plan for it . Routes in the RAD are flightplannable routes . If a direct route is available in the RAD , it can be used when filing the flightplan , prior to the flight . This allows airlines to plan for the shorter route , thus allowing them to bring less fuel and advertise a shorter flight time .
With many airplanes the longevity of the engine is a major factor in the price of the aircraft . Piston aircraft engines are generally good for 2000 hours of operation before they need to be overhauled , which is almost always painfully expensive . The more life left on the engine the higher the value of the airplane . SMOH and SFOH both have to do with the time since the engine was overhauled , both are in hours : SFOH = Since Factory Overhaul SMOH = Since Major Overhaul A factory overhaul means that the engine was sent back to the manufacturer for its overhaul , where a major overhaul could be done by anyone . In general factory overhauls are consistently good whereas non-factory overhauls vary more in quality . Factory overhauls are more expensive as a result . If you see an airplane that has 300 hours since overhaul then there 's plenty of life left , if you see one that has 1700 hours on the clock you know you are going to have to fork out a lot of cash much sooner , but you can get the airplane much cheaper . Another acronym you may see is SPOH , that is Since Prop Overhaul . Variable pitch propellers also have mandatory servicing requirements , and although less expensive it 's still not cheap , so a factor in the cost of the airplane .
Flight levels use <URL> or pressure altitude , while altitude references <URL> or local pressure adjusted to sea level pressure . Altitudes are used at low levels and flight levels at higher levels . The transition between altitudes and flight levels differs by country and is generally just above the highest obstacle in that country . In the US the transition altitude/level is 18,000 ' / FL180 . Some countries transition as low as 5000 ' / FL050 and the transition altitude/level may vary from airport to airport . In the altitudes knowing accurate elevations relative to the ground and obstacles is important for collision avoidance and this is the reason QNH is used here . Each airport will report QNH and controllers will issue the current QNH as needed . You need to know the QNH for obstacle / terrain avoidance but you need to be using the same QNH as those around you for aircraft vertical separation . Above all terrain/obstacles the only thing we care about is vertical separation , so we no longer need to know about the actual pressure and instead use a standard reference pressure , QNE / 1013.25 hPa / 29.92 " Hg . Note that flight levels drop the last two zeros of the corresponding altitude and so 30,000 is FL300 , not FL30000 . When checking in with a controller , FL300 would be pronounced . It is also worth noting that an altimeter can not actually determine altitude . It can only determine pressure ( technically local static pressure compared to a reference pressure ) . It converts this pressure to an altitude using a calibrated non-linear scale . To illustrate the point , look at this map of 500 mb heights : 500 mb correlates to 5500 m or 18,000 ft in a standard atmosphere . In a real atmosphere this height varies and is not actually level . An airplane flying " level " at FL180 from LAX to NYC last night will have actually descended almost 300 m while indicating a constant altitude . These deviations in true altitude from indicated altitude are acceptable , however , since they effect everyone equally in the same locality and separation is maintained .
The wing fence is more or less what it is called - a fence . For swept wing aircraft , the local flow is not along the direction of flight , as there is a significant spanwise flow from the center towards the tips . It can be seen in the following figure . <URL> Image from <URL> The end result is that the boundary layer continues to grow ( thicken ) in this direction , with outboard regions more prone to stall than inboard ones . Basically , the wing fences stop the spanwise flow , with the result being a new ( thinner ) boundary layer starts on the other side of the fence . In case of a vortex generator , the VGs basically create a vortex which re-invigorates the boundary layer by mixing free stream air with that of the boundary layer , thereby preventing separation .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
Although Lnafziger 's answer is correct , I 'd like to elaborate on the purpose of the airspace classes . Class A : This airspace is intended for high-speed , point to point travel . That is why pilots flying in Class A must be instrument rated and in contact with air traffic control ( ATC ) ; aircraft above 18,000 feet are likely to travel quickly and may not have time to avoid each other visually . This is the upper layer of the airspace system . * Class B : This airspace is intended for large airports with lots of jet traffic . The large number and size of aircraft require space for ATC to get them efficiently in and out of the airports . Approach control services are provided . As a result , class B areas are physically large . It is possible for small aircraft flying under visual flight rules to operate here with explict ATC permission , though permission to enter may be denied during periods of high traffic . Small piston-powered aircraft land at Class B airports infrequently , typically due to high landing fees and fuel prices . Class C : Smaller airports with a mix of piston-powered aircraft and jets . Most Class C airports are home to flight schools and small aircraft hangars as well as scheduled service by airlines . While still busy , Class C airports have less traffic than Class B , so ATC does n't need as much space to keep them organized . Like Class B , approach control services are provided . Pilots are only required to establish two-way communication to enter the airspace . Class D : The smallest airspace type for tower-controlled airports , traffic primarily consists of general aviation aircraft . Often these airports handle cargo , business jets , charter service , maintenance or assembly facilities , etc. as well as private aircraft and flight schools . They also host firefighting operations , airshows , or anything else that needs facilities but would interfere with normal traffic if put at a larger airport . Although Class D airports are small , some are very busy ; others handle only a few flights an hour . Approach control services are only provided if the airport is near Class B or C airspace . Class E : This is the lowest level of " controlled airspace . " " Controlled " does n't mean you have to talk to ATC , but that ATC services are available ( within the capabilities of radar and radio equipment ) . This is general-purpose airspace . Aircraft flying under visual flight rules can fly more-or-less whatever they want ( weather permitting ) , and instrument flight rules traffic operate under positive control by ATC . There are regulations in this airspace , but they are n't onerous , and they 're designed to accommodate the wide variety of aircraft and activities that are found here . Some small airports have Class E airspace surrounding them at the ground . Although Class E is a single class of airspace , there are tighter regulations above 10,000 feet , where there are no speed restrictions ( other than the prohibition on supersonic flight over land ) , compared to at lower altitudes where speeds are limited to 250 knots . Class F : See <URL> Class G : This is found near the ground everywhere except controlled airspace around airports , and occasionally at higher altitudes in remote areas ( Alaska or the Rockies , usually ) , but never above 14,500 feet . Most untowered airports have Class G airspace surrounding them . This is " uncontrolled " airspace , so there is no ATC service available at all . Radio and radar work better the higher you go , so at low altitudes you just ca n't expect good results . Class G serves as a notice that ATC services are unavailable , typically due to a lack of radar coverage . In remote areas , the same problems occur at higher altitudes ( radar wo n't see you if you go behind a mountain , and sometimes you 're just too far ) so Class G is found there as well . Most of the time , the only reason anybody goes into Class G airspace is because they 're taking off or landing at an uncontrolled airport , or transiting certain areas that lack radar coverage . Other : There are many kinds of special-use airspace , all of which serve as keep-out signs of varying levels from " please be considerate " up to " will shoot on sight . " In the US , these do n't really interact with airspace classification . * Technically , airspace above 60,000 feet is Class E , but nobody goes up there except scientific and spy/military flights .
While the true ' reason ' is probably buried in some engineering notebooks from 60 years ago , it basically boils down to a design decision by the team designing the engine controls . Both methods work , and both companies have a list of reasons why they think their solution is ' best ' . P&amp;W will tell you that EPR is a better indication of engine thrust , and they 're right . But it relies on pitot probes to measure the pressures within the engine . Flow stability means response can be slow or erratic and the probes can be clogged causing problems . OTOH , it can indicate problems ( unrelated to the probes ) due to engine damage . GE prefers to use N1 . This is a simple speed indication of the fan . It 's not a direct indication of thrust but is directly correlated . The big advantage is that it is extremely reliable and stable . A good explanation is available from <URL> .
You 're correct that the ailerons are deflected differently when they are deflected up or down . This is done in order to counter the adverse yaw effect which occurs when ailerons are deployed . Consider the situation when the ailerons are deployed . <URL> Image from aerospaceweb.org One aileron is deflected downward while the other is deflected upward . One the side with the downward-deflected aileron , lift increases as the deflection effectively increases the camber of that portion of the wing . The opposite happens in the other side . However , the drag is also affected by aileron deflection - both induced and profile drags . For same deflection , the profile drag increase is same in both the wings . However , the induced drag on both sides are not equal , with a larger amount the wing with the down aileron ( as the lift is more and induced drag is proportional to the square of lift ) . One way of overcoming this is to deflect the ailerons differentially , i.e. deflect the down aileron by a lesser amount than the up aileron . The following table shows the aileron deflection in a number of aircraft , which shows the differential aileron deflection ( $ \ delta _ { A } $ is the aileron deflection , in degrees ) . <URL> Table from Aircraft Design : A Systems Engineering Approach by Mohammad Sadraey This adverse yaw can also be prevented by the use of , Frise ailerons Use of spoilers ( in the wing up aileron ) Cross coupled controls ( rudder and ailerons ) . There is another reason to use a differential aileron - to prevent tip stall at high angles of attack ( stall speeds ) . The rolling couple on the aircraft is always the difference in lift between the two wings . At or near stalling speeds , it is better to reduce the lift in up-going aileron than increase it in down moving one and risk stalling it .
Manufacturers typically plan their aircraft production well into the future , which includes having a buyer lined up for each aircraft , so they will know their position in the production line and have an anticipated date for delivery . An order means that the buyer has agreed to purchase a certain aircraft in the production line , at a certain price . The buyer may cancel , but there will probably be a substantial penalty for doing so . An <URL> <URL> that the manufacturer has reserved a certain aircraft in the production line for the buyer , usually at a certain price . However , the buyer will make the decision on whether to convert this to an " order " at a later date . There is less commitment than with an " order " . A <URL> is even less of a commitment than an " option . " This just means that the buyer has agreed to purchase aircraft at a certain price , but it 's not tied to a specific aircraft at that time . It is becoming more common for buyers to mix these three types of orders , which allows them to have a balance of locking in an aircraft and price with orders , and less risk and commitment with options and purchase options . These can all be canceled , though of course there will be more penalties for breaking a more firm commitment . Buyers may also <URL> , either for their own or the manufacturer 's business reasons . The detailed finances of how much is actually paid for aircraft , and how much it costs to make or break any of these contracts , is generally not disclosed . Negotiations can be very specific to each order . For a rough estimate , <URL> considers that for 6 aircraft worth 45 million per unit , options would be worth 2.3 million each to the airline , or about 5 % . <URL> estimates the down payment on a firm order at 10 to 15 percent , but notes that at least in the case of business and commuter aircraft , depending on market conditions , this may not always be required .
From <URL> : Air carrier means a person who undertakes directly by lease , or other arrangement , to engage in air transportation . Commercial operator means a person who , for compensation or hire , engages in the carriage by aircraft in air commerce of persons or property , other than as an air carrier or foreign air carrier or under the authority of Part 375 of this title . Where it is doubtful that an operation is for " compensation or hire " , the test applied is whether the carriage by air is merely incidental to the person 's other business or is , in itself , a major enterprise for profit . To make this more clear <URL> says : 2-128 TYPES OF CERTIFICATES UNDER PART 119 . There are two , basic types of air operator certificates ( AOC ) issued to U.S. applicants who will conduct operations in common carriage . See Table 2-4 , Certification for a summary of certificate requirements . A . An Air Carrier Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct interstate , foreign , or overseas transportation , or to carry mail . B . An Operating Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct intrastate transportation . From your perspective it is n't a too important distinction . As a commercial pilot all that matters to you is that both air carriers and commercial operators need to have operating certificates . As a commercial pilot you can be hired by someone who has an operating certificate but you can not provide the same services on your own unless you yourself have an operating certificate ( e.g. a charter operator can hire you , but you can not operate a charter service ) . As a commercial pilot you can be paid to act as PIC and can engage in the commercial operations that are excepted from operating certificates in <URL> . You can not act as either an air carrier or a commercial operator without complying with 14 CFR 119 , which requires that you have an operating certificate .
Aeroscraft is their brand name . It does not mean anything generally . The general terms are : " Aircraft " ( but not " aerocraft " ) means any machine capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere . " <URL> " is a lighter-then-air aircraft . That is it has large shell filled with gas with lower density than air and uses buoyant force on that for lift . This includes balloons , hot-air or gas filled , tethered balloons and airships . " <URL> " , or " dirigible " is an aerostat equipped with propulsion that allows it to move on it 's own ( as opposed to balloons that are tethered or carried by wind ) .
Both a POH and an AFM meet the " Operating Limitations " requirement in the <URL> acronym . The difference between the two is mainly in length and content : an AFM is usually a thinner document , satisfying the requirements of <URL> and not much else , while a POH contains these required items plus other information like system diagrams ( The contents &amp; format of a POH are standardized in <URL> ) . Parts of the POH ( like the Limitations section ) are FAA-Approved , and serve as the AFM , and both documents are typically associated with a specific airframe ( by serial number ) . A better explanation might be this : The is a regulatory document ( it 's contents are prescribed under the section of the regulations the aircraft was certificated under - Part 23 , Part 25 , etc ) . The is a GAMA-defined document whose contents meet the regulatory requirements of an AFM , and present other information in a standardized way so that a pilot can go from a Cessna to a Piper to a Mooney to a Socata and browse the book to learn about the airplane they 're about to fly with all the information presented the same way no matter who the manufacturer is . The other two types of documents you may encounter are an " Owner 's Manual " ( which usually goes along with a thinner AFM &amp; provides some of the information found in the newer-style POH ) and a Pilot Information Manual ( PIM ) which is a " generic " version of the POH which many pilots buy so they can study the procedures without removing the regulatory document from the aircraft . <URL> talks a little about the differences between the two documents ( and a whole lot of other flight documents ) .
From the manual for <URL> which seems to be similar to yours : PLANNED TRUE AIRSPEED This function is used to calculate true airspeed for preflight planning . It will compute the true airspeed in knots and Mach number and density altitude , given the pressure altitude , temperature , and calibrated airspeed in knots . and ACTUAL TRUE AIRSPEED This function calculates true airspeed , Mach number and density altitude given pressure altitude , indicated temperature in Celsius and calibrated airspeed . The manual does n't give any more information on the difference between the two calculations so we can only guess ... Both methods use pressure altitude and calibrated airspeed . One clue is that the " planned " version uses " temperature " , while the " actual " version uses " indicated temperature " . So my guess is : you use the " actual " version in flight , and it expects you to input <URL> ( TAT ) , read from the gauge in the airplane , which it then converts to Outside Air Temperature ( OAT ) to do the density altitude and true airspeed calculation . You use the " planned " version for flight planning , where the temperature you have available is the OAT . The TAT is the OAT plus the rise in temperature due to the air being brought to rest relative to the airplane . Since the TAT is a bit higher than the OAT , the " actual " version should give slightly lower density altitude and a slightly lower true airspeed .
Non-regulatory airspace is <URL> , <URL> , Alert Areas , and Controlled Firing Areas <URL> , <URL> . Other information should be located in the <URL> Ch 3-4 , Special Use Airspace . Specifically 3-4-1 ( c ) Basically non-regulatory areas mean that the FAA does not make regulatory enforcement in those areas due to special ( military ) operations . Usually the non-enforcement is only for participating aircraft , and generally recreational/commercial aircraft would not fall under any non-regulatory rules . For example , in an active MOA with aircraft practicing low-altitude speed runs , the FAA would not enforce the 250 knot speed limit on participating aircraft . This is in the AIM , Ch 3 Section 4 , Part 5 ( b ) Military pilots flying in an active MOA are exampted from the provisions of 14 CFR Section 91.303 ( c ) and ( d ) which prohibits aerobatic flight within Class D and E surface areas and within Federal Airways . Additionally the Department of Defense has been issued an authorization to operate aircraft at indicated airspeeds in excess of 250 knots below 10,000 feet MSL within active MOAs . . For another example , consider warning areas , which are areas extending 3 miles from the coast . Since this area may include international waters ( think of the area between Alaska and Russia ) , the FAA ca n't really regulate operations in all these areas . The US Navy also controls some of these areas and " shares " jurisdiction with the FAA .
The " heading " refers to the direction an aircraft is pointing . For a Magnetic Heading , this is in relation to Magnetic North . For a True Heading , this is in relation to True North . True North is directly over the earth 's axis . Magnetic North is somewhere over Canada , moving towards Russia . To get the Magnetic Heading , you just read it off the magnetic compass . To get the True Heading , you need to first read the magnetic compass , then either add an Easterly , or subtract a Westerly , magnetic variation ; based upon the isogonic lines on your sectional ( the purple dashed lines labeled 5 ° W , 3 ° E , etc ) . Example 1 : Magnetic Heading 177 w / 3 degrees East Magnetic deviation = true course 180 . Example 2 : Magnetic Heading 177 w / 3 degrees West Magnetic deviation = true course 174 . Because of this , in the past , magnetic headings were used because a simple compass could be used . Finding reliable true headings was difficult until the era of things like the gyrocompass ( patented in 1906 ( Germany ) and 1908 ( USA ) ) and more recently , GPS .
Based on the speeds that you are talking about , it is n't a turbojet definition that you are looking for . The definition for $ V_R $ that you gave is for turbojets . In small GA airplanes , I teach my students to rotate around $ 1.3 V _ { S0 } $ which really means to slowly bring the nose up to the takeoff pitch attitude . Under no circumstances do I want them to yank the airplane off the ground . If done correctly , the airplane will naturally lift off when it is ready to .
Generally speaking a checklist is an actual list of items to check , and a flow is a pattern of movement across the aircraft controls ( switches , dials , etc. ) which will accomplish some subset of the items on a checklist . A flow should be essentially " muscle memory " for a pilot and performed by rote , where a checklist may be more detailed and include more specific guidance . As you can probably tell flows and checklists are closely related ( with flows usually being derived from checklists ) . The two are complimentary tools that are used together : A pilot will follow a flow , and then verify that the required items have been completed using the checklist . In larger/more complicated aircraft it 's not possible to fully memorize some of the checklists , so flows are used to accomplish the " red box " immediate action items before proceeding to the full checklist . As a simple example , consider the engine power loss flow &amp; checklist for a Piper Cherokee . Engine Power Loss Flow ( Red Arrow &amp; Numbers ) Mixture ( Set appropriately - usually " Rich " ) Throttle ( Set appropriately ) Carb Heat / Alternate Air ( On ) Magnetos ( Both ) Electric Fuel Pump ( On ) Primer ( In &amp; Locked ) Fuel Selector ( On a tank that has fuel ) Manufacturer 's Engine Power Loss Checklist ( Blue Numbers ) Fuel Selector - Switch to a tank containing fuel . Electric Fuel Pump - On Mixture - Rich Carb Heat - On Engine Gauges - Check for an indication of the cause of power loss Primer - Check Locked . If no fuel pressure is indicated check tank selector position to be sure it is on a tank containing fuel . Ignition Switch - " Left " then " Right " then back to " BOTH . " Throttle and Mixture - Different settings . ( This may restore power if problem is too rich or too lean a mixture , or a partial fuel system restriction . ) Try another fuel tank . ( Water in the fuel could take some time to be used up , and allowing the engine to windmill may restore power . If power loss is due to water , fuel pressure indications will be normal . ) <URL> In this example the flow accomplishes nearly all the checklist items , but it does so moving over the panel in one direction . As a practical matter the flow is accomplished by just moving your hand along the bottom of the panel : " Push the mixture . Push the throttle . Pull the carb heat . Twist the mag key . Flip all the switches UP ( on ) . Pull the primer and make sure it does n't move . Move the fuel selector lever to the other tank . " Completing the flow takes less than 10 seconds and can be done with one hand while your other hand is pitching for best glide speed . The manufacturer 's checklist for an engine power loss moves around the panel in a more haphazard way , but it also adds a few items ( checking the engine gauges &amp; fuel pressure indication ) , and provides more specific guidance on possible causes like fuel contamination ( water in the fuel ) &amp; how to deal with them . These items could be important if the memory items from the flow do n't restore engine power , assuming you have time ( altitude ) to spend troubleshooting them .
ASOS is basically a replacement for AWOS with more reporting parameters , and the first units were installed in 1991 . According to the <URL> , each different type has the following parameters : AWOS AWOS A : barometric pressure and altimeter setting ( in inches of Mercury ) . AWOS I : wind speed and wind gusts ( in knots ) , wind direction ( from which the wind is blowing ) and variable wind direction ( in degrees of the compass ) , temperature and dew point ( in degrees Celsius ) , altimeter setting and density altitude . AWOS II : all AWOS I parameters , plus visibility and variable visibility ( in miles ) . AWOS III : all AWOS II parameters , plus sky condition ( in oktas ) , cloud ceiling height ( in feet ) , and liquid precipitation accumulation ( in inches ) . AWOS III P : all AWOS III parameters , plus precipitation type ( rain , snow and sometimes drizzle ) identification . AWOS III T : all AWOS III parameters , plus thunderstorm detection ( via a cloud-to-ground lightning detector ) . AWOS III P/T : all AWOS III parameters , plus precipitation type identification and thunderstorm detection . AWOS IV Z : all AWOS III P/T parameters , plus freezing rain detection via a freezing rain sensor ( Note : this configuration used to be called AWOS III PTZ ) . AWOS IV R : all AWOS III P/T parameters , plus runway surface condition . AWOS IV Z/R : all AWOS III P/T parameters , plus freezing rain detection and runway surface condition . ASOS They generally report all the parameters of the AWOS-III , while also having the additional capabilities of reporting temperature and dew point in degrees Fahrenheit , present weather , icing , lightning , sea level pressure and precipitation accumulation .
An adiabatic expansion lowers temperature , an adiabatic compression raises temperature , analogous to the way a refrigerator and an air conditioner work . Or a bicycle pump , it gets quite hot while you 're pumping air . A shock wave compresses air - at supersonic speeds the object travels faster than the pressure information , and when the object arrives at a bit of air it compresses suddenly in a shock wave , with corresponding higher temperature .
Quoting from the <URL> : You may ask " Why 5/8th of a statute mile ? " That 's because <URL> , or about 1 kilometer .
end question
